ABSTRACT
Described herein are polypeptides and related antibodies comprising a variant Fc
domain. The variant Fc domain provide for stabilized Fc:Fc interactions when the
polypeptide(s), antibody or antibodies are bound to its target, antigen or antigens on
the surface of a cell, thus providing for improved effector functions, such as CDC
response.

                                                1
POLYPEPTIDE VARIANTS AND USES THEREOF
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention concerns polypeptides and related antibodies comprising a variant Fc
domain. More particularly, the present invention concerns Fc domain-containing antibodies
or polypeptides that have a modified effector function resulting from one or more amino
acid modifications in the Fc-domain.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
The effector functions mediated by the Fc region of an antibody allow for the destruction of
foreign entities, such as the killing of pathogens and the clearance and degradation of
antigens. Antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) and antibody-dependent
cell-mediated phagocytosis (ADCP) is initiated by binding of the Fc region to Fc receptor
(FcR)-bearing cells, whereas complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) is initiated by
binding of the Fc region to C1q, which initiates the classical route of complement activation.
        Each IgG antibody contains two binding sites for C1q, one in each heavy chain
constant (Fc) region. A single molecule of IgG in solution, however, does not activate
complement as the affinity of monomeric IgG for Clq is quite weak (Kd ~10-4 M) (Sledge et
al., 1973 J. Biol. Chem. 248,2818-13; Hughes-Jones et al., 1979 Mol. Immunol. 16,697
701). Antigen-driven association of IgG can lead to much tighter binding of the multivalent
Clq molecule (Kd ~10-8 M) and complement activation (Burton et al., 1990 Mol. Immunol.
22, 161-206). In contrast, IgM exists naturally in covalently bound penta- or hexamers, and
upon binding of cellular expressed or immobilized antigen IgM pentamers and hexamers can
efficiently elicit CDC. Antigen-binding is a requirement to induce a conformational change in
IgM to expose the Clq binding sites (Feinstein et al., 1986, Immunology Today, 169-174).
        It has been suggested that also IgG can achieve complement activation by the
formation of hexameric ring structures, through interaction of the CH2/CH3 domains of the
Fc region (Burton et al., 1990 Trends in Biochem. Sci. 15, 64-69). Evidence supporting the
existence of such hexameric IgG structures has been found in two dimensional (Reidler et
al., 1986 I Handbook of Experimental Immunology       4 th edit. (Weir, D. M. ed.), ppl7.1-17.5.
Blackwell, Edinburgh; Pinteric et al., 1971 Immunochem. 8, 1041-5) and three dimensional
crystals, as well as for IgG1, IgG2a and IgG4 and human Fc in solution (Kuznetsov et al.,
2000 J Struct. Biol. 131, 108-115). A hexameric ring formation was also observed in the
crystal structure of the b12 human IgG1K antibody directed against HIV-1 gp120 (1HZH in
PDB) (Saphire et al., Science 2001 Aug 10;293(5532),1155-9). In the b12 hexamer ring,
six accessible Clq binding sites were presented at the hexamer surface, one from each of
the six antibodies, while the other six binding sites faced downwards.

                                               2
         Clq resembles a bunch of tulips with six globular heads, containing the antibody
combining regions, tethered to six collagenous stalks [Perkins et al., 1985 Biochem J. 228,
13-26; Poon et al., 1983 J Mol Biol. 168, 563-77; Reid et al., 1983 Biochem Soc Trans 11,
1-12; Weiss et al., 1986 J. Mol. Biol. 189, 573-81]. Clq was found to fit onto the b12
hexameric assembly of the 1HZH crystal structure, so that each of the six globular heads
were in contact with one of the six Clq binding sites (Parren, FASEB Summer Research
Conference, Snowmass, Co., 5-10 July 2010; "Crystal Structure of an intact human IgG:
implications for HIV-1 neutralization and effector Function", Thesis by Erica Ollmann
Saphire, for the Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California. November 2000). Mutations
in selected amino acids in the Fc interfaces observed between symmetry-related b12
antibodies in the crystal structure were observed to decrease the binding avidity of Clq,
indicating the contribution of these amino acids to the intermolecular Fc:Fc interaction.
         US 2011/0123440 describes altered antibody Fc-regions and the uses thereof. The
alterated Fc-regions have one or more amino acid substitutions.
         US 2008/0089892 describes polypeptide Fc-region variants and compositions
comprising these Fc-region variants.
         US 2010/0184959 describes methods of providing an Fc polypeptide variant with
altered recognition of an Fc ligand and/or effector function.
         US 2010/015133 describes methods of producing polypeptides by regulating
polypeptide association.
         US 2010/105873 describes integrated approach for generating multidomain protein
therapeutics.
         US 6,737,056 describes polypeptide vaiants with a Itered effector function.
         Previous efforts have been made to identify antibody Fc-variants with an enhanced
effector function or other modified properties. Such studies have focused on, e.g.,
exchanging segments between IgG isotypes to generate chimeric IgG molecules (Natsume
et al., 2008 Cancer Res 68(10), 3863-72) or amino acid substitutions in the hinge region
(Dall'Acqua et al., 2006 J Immunol 177, 1129-1138) or in or near the Clq-binding site in
the CH2 domain, centered around residues D270, K322, P329, and P331 (Idusogie et al.,
2001 J Immunol 166, 2571-2575; Michaelsen et al., 2009 Scand J Immunol 70, 553-564
and WO 99/51642). For example, Moore et al. (2010 mAbs 2(2), 181-189)) describes
testing various combinations of S267E, H268F, S324T, S239D, 1332E, G236A and 1332E for
enhanced effector function via CDC or ADCC. Other Fc mutations affecting binding to Fc
receptors (WO 2006/105062, WO 00/42072, U.S. Patent 6,737,056 and U.S. Patent
7,083,784) or physical properties of the antibodies (WO 2007/005612 Al) have also been
suggested.
         Despite these and other advances in the art, however, there remains a need for new
and improved antibody-based therapeutics.

                                                 3
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention provides polypeptid and antibody variants having an enhanced
effector function as compared to its parent polypeptide/antibody. Without being limited to
theory, it is believed that the variants are capable of a more stable binding interaction
between the Fc regions of two polyeptide/antibody molecules, thereby providing a more
avid surface which leads to an enhanced effector function, such as an increased or more
specific CDC response. Particular variants are also characterized by an improved ADCC
response, ADCP response, and/or other enhanced effector functions. This subtle mechanism
of polypeptide/antibody engineering can be applied, for instance, to increase the efficacy or
specificity of antibody-based therapeutics, as described herein.
        Thus in one aspect the present invention relatest to a variant of a parent polypeptide
comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, wherein the variant
comprises a mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding
to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447
in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is
S440Y or S440W.
        The invention also provides for the use of at least one such mutation to increase the
effector function mediated by the polypeptide or antibody when bound to its antigen on, for
example, the surface of an antigen-expressing cell, a cell membrane or a virion.
        In one aspect, herein referred to as "single-mutant", the variant has increased
effector function as compared to the parent polypeptide or antibody.
        In one aspect, herein referred to as "double-mutant", the variant comprises at least
two mutations in said segment, and has improved effector function as compared to a
variant comprising only one of the two mutations, the parent polypeptide or antibody, or
both.
        In one aspect, herein referred to as "mixed-mutant", the variant provides an
increased effector function when used in combination with a second variant of the same or a
different polypeptide or antibody comprising a mutation in a different amino acid residue in
said segment, as compared to one or more of the variant, second variant, and the parent
polypeptide or antibody alone.
        Typically, the mutation is an amino acid substitution, such as a mutation exchanging
a parent amino acid residue for one that has a different size and/or physicochemical
property that promotes the formation of a new intermolecular Fc:Fc bond or increases the
interaction strength of an existing pair. Exemplary amino acid residues for mutation
according to the invention are shown in Tables 1 and 2A and B, along with exemplary amino
acid substitutions. Non-limiting illustrations of different aspects of the invention are
provided in Figure 1.

                                                 4
         These and other aspects of the invention, particularly various uses and therapeutic
applications for the antibody variants, are described in further detail below.
Brief Description of the Drawings
Figure 1: (A) Schematic representation of IgG molecules in hexamer formation. The dotted
circle illustrates two adjacent Fc:Fc interaction pairs of two neighbouring IgG molecules. The
arrow in the box illustrates the direction from which the illustrations in B, C and D are
viewed: the two neighbouring Fc molecules are 900 rotated (in the plane of the drawing)
and viewed from the Fab-arms in the direction of the CH3 domains. (B) Observed effect of
oligomerization-enhancing mutations on CDC. Schematic representation illustrating Fc:Fc
interaction pairs with increased efficacy according to the single mutant and double mutant
aspects of the invention. (C) Observed effect of oligomerization-inhibiting mutations on
CDC. Schematic representation illustrating how at least two oligomerization-inhibiting
mutations that compensate each other can be, either combined into one molecule (double
mutant aspect), or seperated over two molecules (mixed mutant aspect), to restore or
increase Fc:Fc interaction according to the double mutant and mixed mutants aspects of the
invention. Mixed mutants achieve specific effector function activation dependent on binding
of both antibodies, which can recognize different targets. (D) Theoretical effect of Clq
binding-inhibiting mutations on CDC. Schematic representation of Fc:Clq interactions,
illustrating that if mutations inhibit Clq-binding, they cannot be combined or mixed to
restore CDC activity, because Clq cannot compensate for the defect introduced in the
antibody.
Figure 2: Sequence alignment of the human IgG1, IgGlf, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 Fc
segments corresponding to residues P247 to K447 in the IgG1 heavy chain, using Clustal
2.1 software, as numbered by the EU index as set forth in Kabat. The sequences shown
represent residues 130 to 330 of the human IgG1 heavy chain constant region (SEQ ID
NO:1; UniProt accession No. P01857) and of the allotypic variant IgG1m(f); residues 126 to
326 of the IgG2 heavy chain constant region (SEQ ID NO:2; UniProt accession No. P01859);
and residues 177 to 377 of the IgG3 heavy chain constant region (SEQ ID NO:2; UniProt
accession No. P01860); and residues 127 to 327 of the IgG4 heavy chain constant region
(SEQ ID NO:4; UniProt accession No. P01861).
Figure 3A and B: Sequence alignment of anti-EGFr antibody 2F8 in an IgG1 (SEQ ID
NO:3), IgG4 (SEQ ID NO:5) and (partial) IgG3 (SEQ ID NO:6) backbone. Amino acid
numbering according to Kabat and according to the EU-index are depicted (both described
in Kabat et al., Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, 5th Ed. Public Health
Service, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD. (1991)).

                                                5
Figure 4: Detailed view of the K439/S440 interactions between the Fc of adjacent
molecules (Fc and Fc', respectively) in a multimeric (e.g., hexameric) arrangement,
illustrating the interaction between wild-type, unmodified Fc and Fc' molecules.
Figure 5: Detailed view of the K439/S440 interactions between the Fc of adjacent
molecules (Fc and Fc', respectively) in a multimeric (e.g., hexameric) arrangement
illustrating the interaction between variant Fc and Fc' molecules comprising K439E and
S440K mutations.
Figure 6: C1q binding ELISA with 7D8 Fc:Fc mutants. Concentration series of the indicated
antibodies were coated to the wells of a microtiter plate and incubated with a fixed
concentration C1q. The efficiency to bind C1q was comparable to wild type 7D8 for all
coated mutants, except 1253D. A representative of at least 3 experiments is shown.
Figure 7: CDC mediated by 7D8 variants on CD20-positive Raji cells. Raji cells were
incubated with the 7D8 mutants (K439E, S440K, K439E/S440K Double mutant, K439E +
S440K mix) and a concentration series of C1q to test the CDC efficacy by measuring cell
lysis. A representative graph of repeated experiments is shown.
Figure 8: CDC mediated by 7D8 mutants (7D8-WT, K439E, S440K, K439E/S440K double
mutant, K439E + S440K mix) on CD20-positive Daudi cells. A concentration series of 7D8
mutants were tested for their efficacy to induce CDC.
Figure 9: CDC mediated by mutants of CD38 antibody HuMAb 005 on CD38-positive cells.
(A) CDC efficacy on Daudi cells by a concentration series of 005 mutants. (B) CDC efficacy
on Raji cells by a concentration series of HuMAb 005 mutants. (C) CDC efficacy of E345R
mutant of HuMAb 005 with either 20% or 50% NHS on Wien133 cells. (D) CDC efficacy of
E345R mutants of HuMAb 005 and 7D8 with either 20% or 50% NHS on Raji cells.
Unpurified antibody samples isolated from transient transfections were tested. As a negative
control, supernatant of mock-transfected cells was used.
Figure 10: CDC by wild type and E345R mutants of CD38 antibody HuMAb 005, (A) and
CD20 antibody HuMAb 7D8 (B) in a competition experiment with an Fc-binding peptide. Cell
lysis was measured after CDC on antibody-opsonized Daudi-cells incubated with a
concentration series of the Fc-binding DCAWHLGELVWCT peptide (SEQ ID NO:7). Unpurified
antibody samples isolated from transient transfections were used. As a negative control,
supernatant of mock-transfected cells was used.
Figure 11: ADCC of CD38 expressing Daudi cells by wild type CD38 antibody HuMAb 005
and mutant IgGl-005-E345R. ADCC of PBMC of one donor is shown, depicted as % lysis.
Figure 12: Binding of wild type IgG1-7D8 and mutant IgGl-7D8-E345R to human,
cynomolgus and mouse FcRn, as determined by ELISA at pH 6.
Figure 13: Plasma concentrations of wild type IgG1-7D8 and -E354R, -S440K and K322A
variants following intravenous injection in SCID mice.
Figure 14A, B, C, and D: CDC on CD20- and CD38-positive Wien133 cells.

                                               6
Figure 15A and B: Evaluation of the in vivo efficacy of IgGl-7D8-E345R in a subcutaneous
xenograft model with Raji-luc #2D1 cells.
Figure 16A and B: Evaluation of the in vivo efficacy of IgGl-005-E345R in a subcutaneous
xenograft model with Raji-luc #2D1 cells.
Figure 17: CDC on CD38-positive, EGFR-negative Wien133 cells by CD38/EGFR bispecific
antibody with the E345R mutation.
Figure 18A and B: CDC on CD20-positive, CD38-negative Wien133 cells or Raji cells by
CD20/CD38 bispecific antibody with and without the E345R mutation.
Figure 19: CDC on EGFR-positive A431 cells by EGFR antibody 2F8 with the E345R
mutation.
Figure 20A and B: CDC mediated by E345R mutant antibodies.
Figure 21: Colocalization analysis of TF antibodies (FITC) with lysosomal marker LAMP1
(APC).
Figure 22A-D: Introduction of E345R resulted in enhanced CDC-mediated killing compared
to wild type rituximab tested on different B cell lines.
Figure 22E: Introduction of E345R resulted in increased maximal CDC-mediated killing
compared to wild type rituximab, independent of the expression levels of the complement
regulatory proteins CD46 (A), CD55 (B) or CD59 (C) in different B cell lines with comparable
CD20 expression levels
Figure 23: CDC kinetics. E345R antibodies result in more rapid and more substantial
target cell lysis by CDC than compared to wild type antibodies.
Figure 24: CDC kinetics. Introduction of the E345R mutation in the bispecific CD38xCD20
antibody results in more rapid and more substantial CDC-mediated target cell lysis.
Figure 25 A-B: CDC kinetics. Introduction of the E345R mutation in bispecific antibody
CD38xEGFR (A) and CD20xEGFR (B) that bind monovalently to the EGFR-negative Raji cells,
results in more rapid and more substantial CDC-mediated target cell lysis.
Figure 26A-F: CDC on Wien133 cells by a combination of a wild type antibody with a
mutant antibody containing (A-C) E345R and Q386K or (D-F) E345R, E430G and Q386K.
IgG1-b12 mutants do not bind Wien133 cells and were used as negative control antibodies.
Figure 27: CDC efficacy of IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 isotype antibodies containing the
E345R mutation.
Figure 28: Introduction of the Fc-Fc stabilizing E345R mutation in wild type CD38 antibody
005 results in enhanced killing of primary CLL cells in an ex vivo CDC assay (average
standard error of the mean).

                                                 7
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
As described herein, surprisingly, mutations in amino acids that are not directly involved in
Fc:C1q binding can nevertheless increase the CDC of an antibody, and can also improve
other Fc-mediated effector functions of the antibody. This supports the hypothesis that
antibody molecules such as IgG1 antibodies can form oligomeric structures which are later
bound by C1q. Further, while some mutations were found to decrease CDC-induction, some
combinations of such mutations in the same or different antibody molecules resulted in
restored CDC-induction, and showed further specificity for oligomerization of antibodies, and
thereby promoting more specific CDC-induction. Particular mutations increasing the CDC
response were also characterized by an improved ADCC response, increased avidity,
increased internalization and in vivo efficacy in a mouse tumor model system as shown in
the Examples. These discoveries allow for novel antibody-based therapeutics with enhanced
CDC-induction capability, more selective CDC-induction, and/or other improved effector
functions.
        The antibody variants of the invention all comprise an antigen-binding region and a
full-length or partial Fc region comprising at least one mutation in the segment
corresponding to amino acid residues P247 to K447 in IgG1. Without being limited to
theory, it is believed that the identified mutations result in a more effective and/or more
specific CDC-induction based on three different principles, schematically represented in
Figure 1, and herein referred to as "single mutant", "double mutant" and "mixed mutants".
        The improved C1q and/or CDC effects from the variants of the invention are
primarily only detectable in assays allowing antibody oligomers to form, such as in cell
based assays where the antigen is not fixed but present in a fluid membrane. Further, that
these effects result from a more stable antibody oligomer and not from a modification of a
direct binding site of C1q can be verified according to the principles shown in Figure 1C.
Definitions
        The term "single-mutant", is to be understood as a variant of the present invention
which has increased effector function as compared to the parent polypeptide or antibody.
        The term "double-mutant", is to be understood as a variant comprising at least two
mutations in said segment, and has improved effector function as compared to a variant
comprising only one of the two mutations, the parent polypeptide or antibody, or both.
        The term "mixed-mutant", is to be understood as a variant providing an increased
effector function when used in combination with a second variant of the same or a different
polypeptide or antibody comprising a mutation in a different amino acid residue in said
segment, as compared to one or more of the variant, second variant, and the parent
polypeptide or antibody alone.

                                                8
        The term "polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding
region" refers in the context of the present invention to a polypeptide which comprises an
Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region which is a capable of binding to any
molecule, such as a polypeptide, e.g. present on a cell, bacterium, or virion. The Fc-domain
of an immunoglobulin is defined as the fragment of an antibody which would be typically
generated after digestion of an antibody with papain (which is known for someone skilled in
the art) which includes the two CH2-CH3 regions of an immunogloubulin and a connecting
region, e.g. a hinge region. The constant domain of an antibody heavy chain defines the
antibody isotype, e.g. IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl, IgA2, IgE. The Fc-domain mediates
the effector functions of antibodies with cell surface receptors called Fc receptors and
proteins of the complement system. The binding region may be a polypeptide sequence,
such as a protein, protein ligand, receptor, an antigen-binding region, or a ligand-binding
region capable to bind to a cell, bacterium, virion. If the binding region is e.g. a receptor the
"polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region" may
have been prepared as a fusion protein of Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and said binding
region. If the binding region is an antigen-binding region the "polypeptide comprising an Fc
domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region" may be an antibody, like a human
antibody or a heavy chain only antibody or a ScFv-Fc-fusion. The polypeptide comprising an
Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region may typically comprise a connecting
region, e.g. a hinge region, and two CH2-CH3 region of the heavy chain of an
immunoglobulin, thus the "polypeptide comprising a Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a
binding region" may be a "polypeptide comprising at least an Fc-domain of an
immunoglobulin and a binding region". The term "Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin" means
in the context of the present invention that a connecting region, e.g. hinge depending on
the subtype of antibody, and the CH2 and CH3 region of an immunoglobulin are present,
e.g. a human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgD, IgAl, IgGA2 or IgE.
        The term "CH2 region" or "CH2 domain" as used herein is intended to refer the CH2
region of an immunoglobulin. Thus for example the CH2 region of a human IgG1 antibody
corresponds to amino acids 228-340 according to the EU numbering system. However, the
CH2 region may also be any of the other subtypes as described herein.
        The term "CH3 region" or "CH3 domain" as used herein is intended to refer the CH3
region of an immunoglobulin. Thus for example the CH3 region of a human IgG1 antibody
corresponds to amino acids 341-447 according to the EU numbering system. However, the
CH2 region may also be any of the other subtypes as described herein.
        The term "immunoglobulin" refers to a class of structurally related glycoproteins
consisting of two pairs of polypeptide chains, one pair of light (L) low molecular weight
chains and one pair of heavy (H) chains, all four potentially inter-connected by disulfide
bonds. The structure of immunoglobulins has been well characterized. See for instance

                                                 9
Fundamental Immunology Ch. 7 (Paul, W., ed., 2nd ed. Raven Press, N.Y. (1989)). Briefly,
each heavy chain typically is comprised of a heavy chain variable region (abbreviated herein
as VH) and a heavy chain constant region. The heavy chain constant region typically is
comprised of three domains, CH1, CH2, and CH3. The heavy chains are inter-connected via
disulfide bonds in the so-called "hinge region". Each light chain typically is comprised of a
light chain variable region (abbreviated herein as VL) and a light chain constant region. The
light chain constant region typically is comprised of one domain, CL. The VH and VL regions
may be further subdivided into regions of hypervariability (or hypervariable regions which
may be hypervariable in sequence and/or form of structurally defined loops), also termed
complementarity determining regions (CDRs), interspersed with regions that are more
conserved, termed framework regions (FRs). Each VH and VL is typically composed of three
CDRs and four FRs, arranged from amino-terminus to carboxy-terminus in the following
order: FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3, FR4 (see also Chothia and Lesk J. Mol. Biol. 196,
901 917 (1987)). Unless otherwise stated or contradicted by context, the amino acids of the
constant region sequences are herein numbered according to the EU-index (described in
Kabat, E.A. et al., Sequences of proteins of immunological interest. 5th Edition - US
Department of Health and Human Services, NIH publication No. 91-3242, pp 662,680,689
(1991)).
        The term "antibody" (Ab) in the context of the present invention refers to an
immunoglobulin molecule, a fragment of an immunoglobulin molecule, or a derivative of
either thereof, which has the ability to specifically bind to an antigen under typical
physiological conditions with a half life of significant periods of time, such as at least about
30 minutes, at least about 45 minutes, at least about one hour, at least about two hours, at
least about four hours, at least about eight hours, at least about 12 hours, about 24 hours
or more, about 48 hours or more, about three, four, five, six, seven or more days, etc., or
any other relevant functionally-defined period (such as a time sufficient to induce, promote,
enhance, and/or modulate a physiological response associated with antibody binding to the
antigen and/or time sufficient for the antibody to recruit an effector activity). The antibody
of the present invention comprises an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an antigen
binding region. An antibody generally contains two CH2-CH3 regions and a connecting
region, e.g. a hinge region, e.g. at least an Fc-domain. Thus the antibody of the present
invention may comprise an Fc region and an antigen-binding region. The variable regions of
the heavy and light chains of the immunoglobulin molecule contain a binding domain that
interacts with an antigen. The constant or "Fc" regions of the antibodies may mediate the
binding of the immunoglobulin to host tissues or factors, including various cells of the
immune system (such as effector cells) and components of the complement system such as
C1q, the first component in the classical pathway of complement activation. An antibody
may also be a multispecific antibody, such as a bispecific antibody or similar molecule. The

                                                10
term "bispecific antibody" refers to antibody having specificities for at least two different,
typically non-overlapping, epitopes. Such epitopes may be on the same or different targets.
If the epitopes are on different targets, such targets may be on the same cell or different
cells or cell types. As indicated above, unless otherwise stated or clearly contradicted by the
context, the term antibody herein includes fragments of an antibody which comprise at least
a portion of an Fc-region and which retain the ability to specifically bind to the antigen.
Such fragments may be provided by any known technique, such as enzymatic cleavage,
peptide synthesis and recombinant expression techniques. It has been shown that the
antigen-binding function of an antibody may be performed by fragments of a full-length
antibody. Examples of binding fragments encompassed within the term "Ab" or "antibody"
include, without limitation, monovalent antibodies (described in W02007059782 by
Genmab); heavy-chain antibodies, consisting only of two heavy chains and naturally
occurring in e.g. camelids (e.g., Hamers-Casterman (1993) Nature 363:446); ThioMabs
(Roche, W02011069104), strand-exchange engineered domain (SEED or Seed-body) which
are asymmetric and bispecific antibody-like molecules (Merck, W02007110205); Triomab
(Fresenius, Lindhofer et al. (1995 J Immunol 155:219); FcAAdp (Regeneron,
W02010151792), Azymetric Scaffold (Zymeworks/Merck, W02012/058768), mAb-Fv
(Xencor, W02011/028952), Dual variable domain immunoglobulin (Abbott, DVD-Ig,U.S.
Patent No. 7,612,181); Dual domain double head antibodies (Unilever; Sanofi Aventis,
W020100226923), Di-diabody (ImClone/Eli Lilly), Knobs-into-holes antibody formats
(Genentech, W09850431 ); DuoBody (Genmab, WO 2011/131746); Electrostatic steering
antibody formats (Amgen, EP1870459 and WO 2009089004; Chugai, US201000155133;
Oncomed, WO2010129304A2); bispecific IgG1 and IgG2 (Rinat neurosciences Corporation,
WO11143545), CrossMAbs (Roche, WO2011117329), LUZ-Y (Genentech), Biclonic (Merus),
Dual Targeting domain antibodies (GSK/Domantis), Two-in-one Antibodies recognizing two
targets (Genentech, NovImmune), Cross-linked Mabs (Karmanos Cancer Center), CovX
body (CovX/Pfizer), IgG-like Bispecific (ImClone/Eli Lilly, Shen, J., et al. J Immunol
Methods, 2007. 318(1-2): p. 65-74), and DIG-body and PIG-body (Pharmabcine), , and
Dual-affinity retargeting molecules (Fc-DART or Ig-DART, by Macrogenics,
WO/2008/157379, WO/2010/080538), Zybodies (Zyngenia), approaches with common light
chain (Crucell/ Merus, US7262028) or common heavy chains (dkBodies by NovImmune), as
well as fusion proteins comprising a polypeptide sequence fused to an antibody fragment
containing an Fc-domain like scFv-fusions, like BsAb by ZymoGenetics/BMS), HERCULES by
Biogen Idec (US007951918), SCORPIONS by Emergent BioSolutions/Trubion, Ts2Ab
(MedImmune/AZ (Dimasi, N., et al. J Mol Biol, 2009. 393(3): p. 672-92), scFv fusion by
Novartis, scFv fusion by Changzhou Adam Biotech Inc (CN 102250246), TvAb by Roche (WO
2012025525, WO 2012025530), mAb 2 by f-Star (WO2008/003116), and dual scFv-fusions.
It also should be understood that the term antibody, unless specified otherwise, also

                                                 11
includes polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal antibodies (such as human monoclonal
antibodies), antibody mixtures (recombinant polyclonals) for instance generated by
technologies exploited by Symphogen and Merus (Oligoclonics), and antibody-like
polypeptides, such as chimeric antibodies and humanized antibodies. An antibody as
generated can potentially possess any isotype.
        The term "full-length antibody" when used herein, refers to an antibody (e.g., a
parent or variant antibody) which contains all heavy and light chain constant and variable
domains corresponding to those that are normally found in a wild-type antibody of that
isotype.
        The term "human antibody", as used herein, is intended to include antibodies having
variable and constant regions derived from human germline immunoglobulin sequences.
The human antibodies of the invention may include amino acid residues not encoded by
human germline immunoglobulin sequences (e.g., mutations, insertions or deletions
introduced by random or site-specific mutagenesis in vitro or by somatic mutation in vivo).
However, the term "human antibody", as used herein, is not intended to include antibodies
in which CDR sequences derived from the germline of another mammalian species, such as
a mouse, have been grafted onto human framework sequences.
        The terms "monoclonal antibody", "monoclonal Ab", "monoclonal antibody
composition", "mAb", or the like, as used herein refer to a preparation of Ab molecules of
single molecular composition. A monoclonal antibody composition displays a single binding
specificity and affinity for a particular epitope. Accordingly, the term "human monoclonal
antibody" refers to Abs displaying a single binding specificity which have variable and
constant regions derived from human germline immunoglobulin sequences. The human
mAbs may be generated by a hybridoma which includes a B cell obtained from a transgenic
or transchromosomal nonhuman animal, such as a transgenic mouse, having a genome
comprising a human heavy chain transgene repertoire and a light chain transgene
repertoire, rearranged to produce a functional human antibody and fused to an
immortalized cell.
        As used herein, "isotype" refers to the immunoglobulin class (for instance IgG1,
IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgD, IgAl, IgGA2, IgE, or IgM or any allotypes thereof such as
IgGlm(za) and IgGlm(f)) that is encoded by heavy chain constant region genes. Further,
each heavy chain isotype can be combined with either a kappa (K) or lambda (k) light chain.
        The term "monovalent antibody" means in the context of the present invention that
an antibody molecule is capable of binding with only one of the binding domains of the
antibody to an antigen, e.g. has a single antigen-antibody interaction, and thus is not able
of antigen crosslinking.
        As used herein, the term "target" is in the context of the present invention to be
understood as a molecule to which the binding region of the polypeptide comprising an Fc

                                                  12
domain and a binding region, when used in the context of the binding of an antibody
includes any antigen towards which the raised antibody is directed. The term "antigen" and
"target" may in relation to an antibody be used interchangeably and constitute the same
meaning and purpose with respect to any aspect or embodiment of the present invention.
        As used herein, the term "binding" in the context of the binding of an antibody to a
predetermined antigen typically is a binding with an affinity corresponding to a       KD of about
10-6  M or less, e.g. 10-7 M or less, such as about 10-8 M or less, such as about 10-9 M or
less, about 10-10 M or less, or about 10-" M or even less when determined by for instance
surface plasmon resonance (SPR) technology in a BIAcore 3000 instrument using the
antigen as the ligand and the antibody as the analyte, and binds to the predetermined
antigen with an affinity corresponding to a    KD  that is at least ten-fold lower, such as at least
100 fold lower, for instance at least 1,000 fold lower, such as at least 10,000 fold lower, for
instance at least 100,000 fold lower than its affinity for binding to a non-specific antigen
(e.g., BSA, casein) other than the predetermined antigen or a closely-related antigen. The
amount with which the affinity is lower is dependent on the       KD  of the antibody, so that when
the  KD of the antibody is very low (that is, the antibody is highly specific), then the amount
with which the affinity for the antigen is lower than the affinity for a non-specific antigen
may be at least 10,000 fold. The term     "KD"  (M), as used herein, refers to the dissociation
equilibrium constant of a particular antibody-antigen interaction.
        A "variant" or "antibody variant" or "variant of a parent antibody" of the present
invention is an antibody molecule or which comprises one or more mutations as compared
to a "parent antibody". Similarly, a "variant" or "a variant of a polypeptide comprising an
Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region" or "a variant of a parent polypeptide
comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region" of the present
invention is a " polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding
region", which comprises one or more mutations as compared to a " parent polypeptide
comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region". The different terms
may be used interchangeably and constitute the same meaning and purpose with respect to
any aspect or embodiment of the present invention. Exemplary parent antibody formats
include, without limitation, a wild-type antibody, a full-length antibody or Fc-containing
antibody fragment, a bispecific antibody, a human antibody, or any combination thereof.
Exemplary mutations include amino acid deletions, insertions, and substitutions of amino
acids in the parent amino acid sequence. Amino acid substitutions may exchange a native
amino acid for another naturally-occurring amino acid, or for a non-naturally-occurring
amino acid derivative. The amino acid substitution may be conservative or non
conservative. In the context of the present invention, conservative substitutions may be
defined by substitutions within the classes of amino acids reflected in one or more of the
following three tables:

                                                13
                Amino acid residue classes for conservative substitutions
        Acidic Residues                         Asp (D) and Glu (E)
        Basic Residues                           Lys (K), Arg (R), and His (H)
        Hydrophilic Uncharged Residues           Ser (S), Thr (T), Asn (N), and
                                                Gln (Q)
        Aliphatic Uncharged Residues             Gly (G), Ala (A), Val (V), Leu (L),
                                                and Ile (I)
        Non-polar Uncharged Residues             Cys (C), Met (M), and Pro (P)
        Aromatic Residues                        Phe (F), Tyr (Y), and Trp (W)
            Alternative conservative amino acid residue substitution classes
        1    A                        S                         T
        2    D                        E
        3    N                        Q
        4    R                        K
        5    I                        L                          M
        6    F                        Y                          W
     Alternative Physical and Functional Classifications of Amino Acid Residues
        Alcohol group-containing residues       S and T
        Aliphatic residues                      I, L, V, and M
        Cycloalkenyl-associated residues        F, H, W, and Y
        Hydrophobic residues                    A, C, F, G, H, I, L, M, R, T, V, W, and Y
        Negatively charged residues             D and E
        Polar residues                          C, D, E, H, K, N, Q, R, S, and T
        Positively charged residues             H, K, and R
        Small residues                          A, C, D, G, N, P, S, T, and V
        Very small residues                     A, G, and S
        Residues involved in turn formation     A, C, D, E, G, H, K, N, Q, R, S, P, and T
        Flexible residues                       Q, T, K, S, G, P, D, E, and R
In the context of the present invention, a substitution in a variant is indicated as:
        Original amino acid - position - substituted amino acid;
        The three letter code, or one letter code, are used, including the codes Xaa and X to
indicate amino acid residue. Accordingly, the notation "E345R" or "Glu345Arg" means, that
the variant comprises a substitution of Glutamic acid with Arginine in the variant amino acid
position corresponding to the amino acid in position 345 in the parent antibody. , when the
two are aligned as indicated below.

                                                14
        Where a position as such is not present in an antibody, but the variant comprises an
insertion of an amino acid, for example:
        Position - substituted amino acid; the notation, e.g., "448E" is used.
        Such notation is particular relevant in connection with modification(s) in a series of
homologous polypeptides or antibodies.
        Similarly when the identity of the substitution amino acid residues(s) is immaterial:
        Original amino acid - position; or "E345".
        For a modification where the original amino acid(s) and/or substituted amino acid(s)
may comprise more than one, but not all amino acid(s), the substitution of Glutamic acid for
Arginine, Lysine or Tryptophan in position 345:
        "Glu345Arg,Lys,Trp" or "E345R,K,W" or "E345R/K/W" or "E345 to R, K or W"
may be used interchangeably in the context of the invention.
        Furthermore, the term "a substitution" embraces a substitution into any one of the
other nineteen natural amino acids, or into other amino acids, such as non-natural amino
acids. For example, a substitution of amino acid E in position 345 includes each of the
following substitutions: 345A, 345C, 345D, 345G, 345H, 345F, 3451, 345K, 345L, 345M,
345N, 345Q, 345R, 345S, 345T, 345V, 345W, and 345Y. This is, by the way, equivalent to
the designation 345X, wherein the X designates any amino acid. These substitutions can
also be designated E345A, E345C, etc, or E345A,C,ect, or E345A/C/ect. The same applies to
analogy to each and every position mentioned herein, to specifically include herein any one
of such substitutions.
        An amino acid or segment in one sequence that "corresponds to" an amino acid or
segment in another sequence is one that (i) aligns with the other amino acid or segment
using a standard sequence alignment program such as ALIGN, ClustalW or similar, typically
at default settings and (ii) has a sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 1 of at least 50%, at least
80%, at least 90%, or at least 95%. For example, the sequence alignments shown in
Figures 2 and 3 can be used to identify any amino acid in the IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4 Fc
sequence that corresponds to a particular amino acid in the IgG1 Fc sequence.
        The present invention refers to variants, viz. parent antibodies, and/or variant
antibodies, having a certain degree of identity to amino acids P247 to K447 of SEQ ID
Nos: 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, such parent and/or variant antibodiesbeing hereinafter designated
"homologous antibodies".
        For purposes of the present invention the degree of identity between two amino acid
sequences, as well as the degree of identity between two nucleotide sequences, is
determined by the program "align" which is a Needleman-Wunsch alignment (i.e. a global
alignment). The program is used for alignment of polypeptide, as well as nucleotide
sequences. The default scoring matrix BLOSUM50 is used for polypeptide alignments, and
the default identity matrix is used for nucleotide alignments, the penalty of the first residue

                                                    15
of a gap is -12 for polypeptides and -16 for nucleotides. The penalties for further residues of
a gap are -2 for polypeptides, and -4 for nucleotides.
        "Align" is part of the FASTA package version v20u6 (see W. R. Pearson and D. J.
Lipman (1988), "Improved Tools for Biological Sequence Analysis", PNAS 85:2444-2448,
and W. R. Pearson (1990) "Rapid and Sensitive Sequence Comparaison with FASTP and
FASTA", Methods in Enzymology 183:63-98). FASTA protein alignments use the Smith
Waterman algorithm with no limitation on gap size (see "Smith-Waterman algorithm", T. F.
Smith and M. S. Waterman (1981) J. Mol. Biolo. 147:195-197).
        As used herein, the term "effector cell" refers to an immune cell which is involved in
the effector phase of an immune response, as opposed to the cognitive and activation
phases of an immune response. Exemplary immune cells include a cell of a myeloid or
lymphoid origin, for instance lymphocytes (such as B cells and T cells including cytolytic T
cells (CTLs)), killer cells, natural killer cells, macrophages, monocytes, eosinophils,
polymorphonuclear cells, such as neutrophils, granulocytes, mast cells, and basophils. Some
effector cells express Fc receptors (FcRs) or complement receptors and carry out specific
immune functions. In some embodiments, an effector cell such as, e.g., a natural killer cell,
is capable of inducing ADCC. For example, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, dendritic
cells and Kupffer cells which express FcRs, are involved in specific killing of target cells and
presenting antigens to other components of the immune system, or binding to cells that
present antigens. In some embodiments the ADCC can be further enhanced by antibody
driven classical complement activation resulting in the deposition of activated C3 fragments
on the target cell. C3 cleavage products are ligands to complement receptors (CRs), such as
CR3, expressoid on myeloid cells. The recognition of complement fragments by CRs on
effector cells may promote enhanced Fc receptor-mediated ADCC. In some embodiments
antibody driven classical complement activation leads to C3 fragments on the target cell.
These C3 cleavage products may promote direct complement-dependent cellular cytotoxicity
(CDCC). In some embodiments, an effector cell may phagocytose a target antigen, target
particle or target cell. The expression of a particular FcR or complement receptor on an
effector cell may be regulated by humoral factors such as cytokines. For example,
expression of FcyRI has been found to be up-regulated by interferon y (IFN y) and/or
G-CSF. This enhanced expression increases the cytotoxic activity of FcyRI-bearing cells
against targets. An effector cell can phagocytose a target antigen or phagocytose or lyse a
target cell. In some embodiments antibody driven classical complement activation leads to
C3 fragments on the target cell. These C3 cleavage products may promote direct
phagocytoses by effector cells or indirectly by enhancing antibody mediated phagocytosis.
        The term "vector," as used herein, is intended to refer to a nucleic acid molecule
capable of inducing transcription a nucleic acid segment ligated into the vector. One type of
vector is a "plasmid", which is in the form of a circular double stranded DNA loop. Another

                                                 16
type of vector is a viral vector, wherein the nucleic acid segment may be ligated into the
viral genome. Certain vectors are capable of autonomous replication in a host cell into which
they are introduced (for instance bacterial vectors having a bacterial origin of replication
and episomal mammalian vectors). Other vectors (such as non-episomal mammalian
vectors) may be integrated into the genome of a host cell upon introduction into the host
cell, and thereby are replicated along with the host genome. Moreover, certain vectors are
capable of directing the expression of genes to which they are operatively linked. Such
vectors are referred to herein as "recombinant expression vectors" (or simply, "expression
vectors"). In general, expression vectors of utility in recombinant DNA techniques are often
in the form of plasmids. In the present specification, "plasmid" and "vector" may be used
interchangeably as the plasmid is the most commonly used form of vector. However, the
present invention is intended to include such other forms of expression vectors, such as
viral vectors (such as replication defective retroviruses, adenoviruses and adeno-associated
viruses), which serve equivalent functions.
        The term "recombinant host cell" (or simply "host cell"), as used herein, is intended
to refer to a cell into which an expression vector has been introduced. It should be
understood that such terms are intended to refer not only to the particular subject cell, but
also to the progeny of such a cell. Because certain modifications may occur in succeeding
generations due to either mutation or environmental influences, such progeny may not, in
fact, be identical to the parent cell, but are still included within the scope of the term "host
cell" as used herein. Recombinant host cells include, for example, transfectomas, such as
CHO cells, HEK-293 cells, PER.C6, NSO cells, and lymphocytic cells, and prokaryotic cells
such as E. coli and other eukaryotic hosts such as plant cells and fungi.
        The term "transfectoma", as used herein, includes recombinant eukaryotic host cells
expressing the Ab or a target antigen, such as CHO cells, PER.C6, NSO cells, HEK-293 cells,
plant cells, or fungi, including yeast cells.
The term "preparation" refers to preparations of antibody variants and mixtures of different
antibody variants which can have an increased ability to form oligomers when interacting
with antigen associated with a cell (e.g., an antigen expressed on the surface of the cell), a
cell membrane, a virion or other structure, thereby enabling an increased Clq binding,
complement activation, CDC, ADCC, ADCP, other Fc-mediated effector function,
internalization, downmodulation, apoptosis, antibody-drug-conjugate (ADC) uptake, avidity
or a combination of any thereof. Exemplary assays are provided in the Examples for, e.g.,
Clq-binding avidity (Example 4), CDC (Examples 5, 6 and 10, 16, 19, 22, 23, 24, 25);
ADCC (Example 12) and in vivo efficacy (Example 20, 21). Variants according to the aspects
herein referred to as "single-mutant", "double-mutant", and "mixed-mutants", are described
in further detail below, along with exemplary processeses for their preparation and methods
of use.

                                                  17
        As used herein, the term "affinity" is the strength of binding of one molecule, e.g. an
antibody, to another, e.g. a target or antigen, at a single site, such as the monovalent
binding of an individual antigen binding site of an antibody to an antigen.
        As used herein, the term "avidity" refers to the combined strength of multiple
binding sites between two structures, such as between multiple antigen binding sites of
antibodies simultaneously interacting with a target or e.g. between antibody and C1q. When
more than one binding interactions are present, the two structures will only dissociate when
all binding sites dissociate, and thus, the dissociation rate will be slower than for the
individual binding sites, and thereby providing a greater effective total binding strength
(avidity) compared to the strength of binding of the individual binding sites (affinity).
        As used herein, the term "oligomer" refers to a molecule that consists of more than
one but a limited number of monomer units (e.g. antibodies) in contrast to a polymer that,
at least in principle, consists of an unlimited number of monomers. Exemplary oligomers are
dimers, trimers, tetramers, pentamers and hexamers . Greek prefixes are often used to
designate the number of monomer units in the oligomer, for example a tetramer being
composed of four units and a hexamer of six units.
        The term "oligomerization", as used herein, is intended to refer to a process that
converts monomers to a finite degree of polymerization. Herein, it is observed, that the
oligomerization of Fc-domains takes place after target binding by Fc-domain containing
polypeptides, such as antibodies, preferably but not limited to at a cell surface. The
oligomerization of antibodies can be evaluated for example using a cell surface Clq-binding
assay (as described in examples 4 and 9), C1q efficacy assay (as described in example 5)
and complement dependent cytotoxicity described in Example 6, 10 and 19).
        The term "Clq binding", as used herein, is intended to refer to the binding of C1q in
the context of the binding of C1q to an antibody bound to its antigen. The antibody bound
to its antigen is to be understood as happening both in vivo and in vitro in the context
described herein. C1q binding can be evaluated for example by using immobilized antibody
on artificial surface (e.g. plastic in plates for ELISA, as described in example 3) or by using
bound to a predetermined antigen on a cellular or virion surface (as described in examples 4
and 9). The binding of C1q to an antibody oligomer is to be understood herein as a
multivalent interaction resulting in high avidity binding.
        As used herein, the term "complement activation" refers to the activation of the
classical complement pathway, which is triggered by the binding of complement component
C1q to an antibody bound to its antigen. C1q is the first protein in the early events of the
classical complement cascade that involves a series of cleavage reactions that culminate in
the formation of an enzymatic activity called C3 convertase, which cleaves complement
component C3 into C3b and C3a. C3b binds covalently to C5 on the membrane to form C5b
that in turn triggers the late events of complement activation in which terminal complement

                                                18
components C5b, C6, C7, C8 and C9 assemble into the membrane attack complex (MAC).
The complement cascade results in the creation of pores due to which causes cell lysis, also
known as CDC. Complement activation can be evaluated by using C1q efficacy (as described
in example 5), CDC kinetics (as described in examples 28, 29, and 30), CDC assays (as
described in examples 6, 10, 19, 25, 27, and 33) or by the method Cellular deposition of
C3b and C4b described in Beurskens et al April 1, 2012vol. 188 no. 7 3532-3541.
        The term "complement-dependent cytotoxicity" ("CDC"), as used herein, is intended
to refer to the process of antibody-mediated complement activation leading to lysis of the
antibody bound to its target on a cell or virion as a result of pores in the membrane that are
created by MAC assembly. CDC can be evaluated by in vitro assay such as a CDC assay in
which normal human serum is used as a complement source, as described in example 6, 10,
19, 25, 27, and 33 or in a C1q efficacy assay, as described in example 5, in which normal
human serum has been limited in C1q.
        The term "antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity" ("ADCC") as used herein,
is intended to refer to a mechanism of killing of antibody-coated target cells or virions by
cells expressing Fc receptors that recognize the constant region of the bound antibody.
ADCC can be determined using methods such as, e.g., the ADCC assay described in
example 12.
        The term "antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis" ("ADCP") as used herein is
intended to refer to a mechanism of elimination of antibody-coated target cells or virions by
internalization by phagocytes. The internalized antibody-coated target cells or virions is
contained in a vesicle called a phagosome, which then fuses with one or more lysosomes to
form a phagolysosome. ADCP may be evaluated by using an in vitro cytotoxicity assay with
marcophages as effortor cells and video microscopy as described by van Bij et al. in Journal
of Hepatology Volume 53, Issue 4, October 2010, Pages 677-685. Or as descriped in
example 14 for e.g. S. aureus phagocytos by PMN.
        The term "complement-dependent cellular cytotoxicity" ("CDCC") as used herein is
intended to refer to a mechanism of killing of target cells or virions by cells expressing
complement receptors that recognize complement 3 (C3)              cleavage products that are
covalently bound to the target cells or virions as a result of antibody-mediated complement
activation. CDCC may be evaluated in a similar manner as described for ADCC.
        The term "downmodulation", as used herein, is intended to refer a process that
decreases the number of molecules, such as antigens or receptors, on a cellular surface,
e.g. by binding of an antibody to a receptor.
        The term "internalization", as used herein, is intended to refer to any mechanism by
which an antibody or Fc-containing polypeptide is internalized into a target-expressing cell
from the cell-surface and/or from surrounding           medium, e.g.,     via endocytosis. The
internalization of an antibody can be evaluated using a direct assay measuring the amount

                                                19
of internalized antibody (such as, e.g., the lysosomal co-localization assay described in
Example 26).
        The term "antibody-drug conjugate", as used herein refers to an antibody or Fc
containing polypeptide having specificity for at least one type of malignant cell, a drug, and
a linker coupling the drug to e.g. the antibody. The linker is cleavable or non-cleavable in
the presence of the malignant cell; wherein the antibody-drug conjugate kills the malignant
cell.
        The term "antibody-drug conjugate uptake", as used herein refers to the process in
which    antibody-drug     conjugates   are  bound     to  a target    on  a cell  followed  by
uptake/engulfment by the cell membrane and thereby is drawn into the cell. Antibody-drug
conjugate uptake may be evaluated as "antibody-mediated internalization and cell killing by
anti-TF ADC in an in vitro killing assay" as described in WO 2011/157741.
        The term "apoptosis", as used herein refers to the process of programmed cell death
(PCD) that may occur in a cell. Biochemical events lead to characteristic cell changes
(morphology) and death. These changes include blebbing, cell shrinkage, nuclear
fragmentation, chromatin condensation, and chromosomal DNA fragmentation. Binding of
an antibody to a certain receptor may induce apoptosis.
        Fc-receptor binding may be indirectly measured as described in Example 12.
        The term "FcRn", as used herein is intended to refer to neonatal Fc receptor which is
an Fc receptor. It was first discovered in rodents as a unique receptor capable of
transporting IgG from mother's milk across the epithelium of newborn rodent's gut into the
newborn's bloodstream. Further studies revealed a similar receptor in humans. In humans,
however, it is found in the placenta to help facilitate transport of mother's IgG to the
growing fetus and it has also been shown to play a role in monitoring IgG turnover. FcRn
binds IgG at acidic pH of 6.0-6.5 but not at neutral or higher pH. Therefore, FcRn can bind
IgG from the intestinal lumen (the inside of the gut) at a slightly acidic pH and ensure
efficient unidirectional transport to the basolateral side (inside the body) where the pH is
neutral to basic (pH 7.0-7.5). This receptor also plays a role in adult salvage of IgG through
its occurrence in the pathway of endocytosis in endothelial cells. FcRn receptors in the acidic
endosomes bind to IgG internalized through pinocytosis, recycling it to the cell surface,
releasing it at the basic pH of blood, thereby preventing it from undergoing lysosomal
degradation. This mechanism may provide an explanation for the greater half-life of IgG in
the blood compared to other isotypes. Example 13 describes an assay showing IgG binding
to FcRn at pH 6.0 in ELISA.
        The term "Protein A", as used herein is intended to refer to a 56 kDa MSCRAMM
surface protein originally found in the cell wall of the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus. It is
encoded by the spa gene and its regulation is controlled by DNA topology, cellular
osmolarity, and a two-component system called ArIS-ArIR. It has found use in biochemical

                                                20
research because of its ability to bind immunoglobulins. It is composed of five homologous
Ig-binding domains that fold into a three-helix bundle. Each domain is able to bind proteins
from many of mammalian species, most notably IgGs. It binds the heavy chain Fc region of
most immunoglobulins (overlapping the conserved binding site of FcRn receptors) and also
interacts with the Fab region of the human VH3 family. Through these interactions in serum,
IgG molecules bind the bacteria via their Fc region instead of solely via their Fab regions, by
which the bacteria disrupts opsonization, complement activation and phagocytosis.
        The term "Protein G", as used herein is intended to refer to an immunoglobulin
binding protein expressed in group C and G Streptococcal bacteria much like Protein A but
with differing specificities. It is a 65-kDa (G148 protein G) and a 58 kDa (C40 protein G) cell
surface protein that has found application in purifying antibodies through its binding to the
Fc region.
        The term "CH2 region" or "CH2 domain" as used herein is intended to refer the CH2
region of an immunoglobulin. Thus for example the CH2 region of a human IgG1 antibody
corresponds to amino acids 228-340 according to the EU numbering system.
        The term "CH3 region" or "CH3 domain" as used herein is intended to refer the CH3
region of an immunoglobulin. Thus for example the CH3 region of a human IgG1 antibody
corresponds to amino acids 341-447 according to the EU numbering system.
        The term "allosteric mutations", as used herein, is intended to refer to modifications,
eg insertions, substitutions and deletions, of amino acids P247, and E430, in Fc-domain
containing polypeptides, as numbered by the EU index as set forth in Kabat.
        The term "hydrophobic knob mutations", as used herein, is intended to refer to
modifications, eg insertions, substitutions and deletions, of amino acids 1253, and S254,
and Q311, in Fc-domain containing polypeptides, as numbered by the EU index as set forth
in Kabat. Hydrophobic knobs are described by Delano WL, et al., Science 287, (2000),
pages 1279-1283, e.g. on page 1281.
        The term "N-terminal CH3 helix mutations", as used herein, is intended to refer to
modifications, eg insertions, substitutions and deletions, of amino acids R355, and D356,
and E356, and E357, and M358, and L358, and T359, more specifically of D356, and E356,
and T359, in Fc-domain containing polypeptides, as numbered by the EU index as set forth
in Kabat.
        The term "C-terminal CH3 beta strand mutations", as used herein, is intended to
refer to modifications, eg insertions, substitutions and deletions, of amino acids Y436, and
T437, and Q438, and K439, and S440, and L441, more specifically of Y436, and K439, and
S440, in Fc-domain containing polypeptides, as numbered by the EU index as set forth in
Kabat.
Methods of affecting an effector function of an antibody

                                               21
        It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.
        In one aspect the present invention relates to a method of increasing an effector
function of a parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a
binding region, which method comprises introducing a mutation to the parent polypeptide in
at least one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440,
Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
        In one embodiment the parent polypeptide may be an antibody.
        Thus the present invention relates to a method of increasing an effector function of a
parent antibody, comprising introducing a mutation to the parent antibody in at least one
amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247,
1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
        The reference to "D/E356" refers in the present context to allotypic variants in the
sequence of human IgG1. In the IgGlm(za) allotype of human IgG1 the amino acid in
position 356 is D, while in the IgGlm(f) allotype of human IgG1 the amino acid in position
356 is E.
        Introducing a mutation to a parent antibody according to a method or use of the
present invention results in a variant or variant antibody. Thus the method(s) of the present
invention may be performed so as to obtain any variant or variant antibody as described
herein.
        The variant antibody obtained from a method or use of the present invention has an
increased effector function compared to the parent antibody. Typically, the effect of an
antibody on an effector function may be determined by the EC50 value, which is the
concentration of the antibody necessary to obtain half the value of the maximal lysis.
        Maximal lysis is the lysis obtained when a saturating amount of the antibody is used,
in which saturating is intended to refer to the amount of antibody at which all antigens for
the antibody are bound by antibody.
        The term "increasing an effector funtion" or "improving an effector function" refers in
the context of the present invention that there is a decrease in the EC50 value of the
variant antibody compared to the parent antibody. The decrease in the EC50 value may e.g.
be at least or about 2-fold, such as at least or about 3-fold, or at least or about 5-fold, or at
least or about 10-fold. Alternatively, "increasing an effector funtion" or "improving an
effector function" means that there is an increase in the maximal amount of cells lysed
(where the total amount of cells is set at 100%) by       e.g. from 10% to 100% of all cells,

                                               22
such as by about 10%, about 20%, about 30%, about 40%, about 50%, about 60%, about
70%, about 80%, about 90%, and about 100% under conditions where the parent antibody
lyses less than 100% of all cells.
        A variant could be tested for increased or improved effector function by cloning the
variable domain of the IgG1-005 or IgG1-7D8 heavy chain into the variant and test its
efficacy in CDC assays, such as described for Daudi (Example 6) and Wien (Example 10).
Using an IgG1-7D8 HC variable domain and Daudi cells, an increase would be defined by a
more than 2 fold lower EC50 than the EC50 of IgG1-7D8 under the studied condition, such
as about 2-fold, about 3-fold, about 5-fold, about 10-fold or a more than 10-fold lower EC50
value, the concentration at which half-maximal lysis is observed. Using an IgG1-005 HC
variable domain and Daudi cells, an increase would be defined by a more than 2 fold lower
EC50 than the EC50 of IgG1-005 under the studied condition, such as about 2-fold, about
3-fold, about 5-fold, about 10-fold or a more than 10-fold lower EC50 value, the
concentration at which half-maximal lysis is observed. Using an IgG1-7D8 HC variable
domain and Wien133 cells, an increase would be defined by a more than 2 fold lower EC50
than the EC50 of IgG1-7D8 under the studied condition, such as about 2-fold, about 3-fold,
about 5-fold, about 10-fold or a more than 10-fold lower EC50 value, the concentration at
which half-maximal lysis is observed. Using an IgG1-005 HC variable domain and Wien133
cells, an increase would be defined by an increase in the maximal lysis ranging from 10% to
100% of all cells, such as by about 10%, about 20%, about 30%, about 40%, about 50%,
about 60%, about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, and about 100%. An increase in CDC
efficacy could also be defined by a more than 2-fold lower EC50 than the EC50 of IgG1-005
under the studied condition, such as about 2-fold, about 3-fold, about 5-fold, about 10-fold
or a more than 10-fold lower EC50 value, the concentration at which half-maximal lysis is
observed under conditions where lysis of Wien133 cells is detectable.
        The inventors of the present invention surprisingly found that mutations in these
specific positions have an improved effect on effector functions of the variant antibody,
which is obtained from introducing a mutation into a parent antibody according to a method
of the present invention (e.g. as shown in Example 19). Without being bound by theory, it is
believed that by substituting at least one amino acid from the above-mentioned group of
positions oligomerization is stimulated. The antibodies bind with higher avidity (exemplified
by example 2; direct labelling of IgG-7D8-E345R resulted in increased binding to Daudi cells
in comparison to IgG-7D8-WT) which causes the antibodies to bind for a longer time to the
cells and thereby different effector functions are enabled, e.g. increased C1q binding, C1q
efficacy CDC, ADCC, internalization, ADCP, and/or in vivo efficacy. These effects have been
exemplified by example 4 (Clq binding on cells), example 5 (Clq efficacy in a CDC assay),
example 6, 7, 27, 28 and 29 (CDC assay), example 12 (ADCC), example 26 (internalization)
and example 21 and 22 (in vivo efficacy).

                                                 23
Thus the mutation of an amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345,
E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain may also be referred to as "single mutant" aspect
or "effector-enhancing mutations" in the context of the present invention.
        In another aspect, the present invention also provides for the use of one or more
mutations in Table 1, such as a mutation in an amino acid residue selected from those
corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382,
Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, to increase an effector
funtion, e.g. one or more of (i) Clq-binding, (ii) complement activation, (iii) CDC, (iv)
oligomer formation, (v) oligomer stability, (vi) antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxity
(ADCC), (vii) FcRn-binding, (viii) Fc-gamma receptor-binding, (ix) Protein A-binding, (x)
Protein G-binding, (xi) antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP), (xii) complement
dependent cellular cytotoxicity (CDCC), (xiii) complement-enhanced cytotoxicity, (xiv)
binding to complement receptor of an opsonized antibody mediated by the antibody, (xv)
internalization, (xvi) downmodulation, (xvii) induction of apoptosis, (xviii) opsonisation and
(xix) a combination of any of (i) to (xviii), of an antibody when bound to its antigen on a
cell, on a cell membrane, on a virion, or on another particle. In one embodiment of (iv) or
(v), the oligomer is a hexamer. In one embodiment, at least one other effector function of
the antibody, such as Clq-binding, complement activation, complement dependent
cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxity (ADCC), FcRn-binding, Fc
gamma receptor-binding, Protein A-binding, Protein G-binding, ADCP, complement
dependent cellular cytotoxicity (CDCC), complement-enhanced cytotoxicity, binding to
complement receptor of an opsonized antibody mediated by the antibody, antibody
mediated phagocytosis (ADCP), internalization, apoptosis, and/or binding to complement
receptor of an opsonized antibody is also or alternatively increased,such as in particular
FcRn binding, ADCC, Fc gamma receptor binding, Protein A binding, Protein G binding,
ADCP, CDCC, complement enhanced cytotoxicity, opsonisation and any combinations
thereof.
        In one embodiment, the effector function of the parent antibody is increased when
the parent antibody is bound to its antigen on an antigen-expressing cell, on a cell
membrane, or on a virion.
        The inventors of the present invention have also shown that introducing a mutation
to a parent antibody in an amino acid residue corresponding to either K439 or S440 in the
Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain decreases the effector function of the parent
antibody (examples 5, 6 and 10).
        In another aspect the present invention relates to a method of decreasing an effector
function of a parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a
binding region, which method comprises introducing a mutation to the parent polypeptide in

                                                24
one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not
S440Y or S440W, such as wherein the mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the
Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the position
corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
         In one embodiment the parent polypeptide may be an antibody.
         Hence in another aspect, the present invention relates also to a method of
decreasing an effector function of a parent antibody comprising introducing a mutation to
the parent antibody in one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to K439
and S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation
in S440 is not S440Y or S440W, such as wherein the mutation in the position corresponding
to K439 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the
position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
         As shown in Example 6, the amino acid substitution of position K439E or S440K as
"single-mutants" decreased CDC as compared to any one of the first mutations according to
the method of the present invention.
         The variant antibody obtained from said method of decreasing an effector fundtion
has an decreased effector function compared to the parent antibody. Typically, the effect of
an antibody on an effector function may be measured by the EC50 value, which is the
concentration of the antibody necessary to obtain half the value of the maximal lysis.
         Maximal lysis is the lysis obtained when a saturating amount of the antibody is used,
in which saturating is intended to refer to the amount of antibody at which all antigens for
the antibody are bound by antibody.
         The term "decreasing an effector funtion" refers in the context of the present
invention that there is a increase in the EC50 value of the variant antibody compared to the
parent antibody. The increase in the EC50 value may e.g. be at least or about 2-fold, such
as at least or about 3-fold, or at least or about 5-fold, or at least or about 10-fold.
Alternatively, "decreasing an effector funtion" means that there is an decrease in the
maximal amount of cells lysed by e.g. from 10% to 100% of all cells, such as about 10%,
about 20%, about 30%, about 40%, about 50%, about 60%, about 70%, about 80%, about
90%, and about 100% under conditions where the parent antibody lyses less than 100% of
all cells.
         A variant could be tested for decreased effector function by cloning the variable
domain of the IgG1-005 or IgG1-7D8 heavy chain into the variant and test its efficacy in
CDC assays, such as described for Daudi (Example 6) and Wien (Example 10). Using an
IgG1-7D8 HC variable domain and Daudi cells, an decrease would be defined by a more
than 2 fold lower EC50 than the EC50 of IgG1-7D8 under the studied condition, such as
about 2-fold, about 3-fold, about 5-fold, about 10-fold or a more than 10-fold lower EC50

                                                25
value, the concentration at which half-maximal lysis is observed. Using an IgG1-005 HC
variable domain and Daudi cells, an decrease would be defined by a more than 2 fold lower
EC50 than the EC50 of IgG1-005 under the studied condition, such as about 2-fold, about
3-fold, about 5-fold, about 10-fold or a more than 10-fold lower EC50 value, the
concentration at which half-maximal lysis is observed. Using an IgG1-7D8 HC variable
domain and Wien133 cells, an decrease would be defined by a more than 2 fold lower EC50
than the EC50 of IgG1-7D8 under the studied condition, such as about 2-fold, about 3-fold,
about 5-fold, about 10-fold or a more than 10-fold lower EC50 value, the concentration at
which half-maximal lysis is observed. Using an IgG1-005 HC variable domain and Wien133
cells, an decrease would be defined by an decrease in the maximal lysis ranging from 10%
to 100% of all cells, such as by about 10%, about 20%, about 30%, about 40%, about
50%, about 60%, about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, and about 100%. An decrease in
CDC efficacy could also be defined by a more than 2-fold lower EC50 than the EC50 of
IgG1-005 under the studied condition, such as about 2-fold, about 3-fold, about 5-fold,
about 10-fold or a more than 10-fold lower EC50 value, the concentration at which half
maximal lysis is observed under conditions where lysis of Wien133 cells is detectable.
        In one embodiment, the effector function is decreased, when the parent antibody is
bound to its antigen on an antigen-expressing cell, on a cell membrane, or on a virion.
        Thus in another aspect, the invention relates to use of at least a further mutation in
an antibody variant comprising a mutation in one amino acid residue selected from those
corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W, to restore an effector function of
the antibody variant when bound to its antigen on an antigen-expressing cell, on a cell
membrane, or on a virion, wherein
        the first mutation is in an amino acid residue corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain and the second mutation is in an amino acid residue
corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, or
        the first mutation is in an amino acid residue corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain and the second mutation is in an amino acid residue
corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody is a monospecific, bispecific, or multispecific
antibody.
        If the parent antibody is a monospecific antibody comprising two CH2-CH3 regions, a
mutation according to the present invention may in principle only be present in one of the
CH2-CH3 regions, although for most practical purpose a mutation increasing or decreasing
an effector function according to the present invention is present in both CH2-CH3 regions.
        If the parent antibody is a bispecific antibody comprising two CH2-CH3 regions, a
mutation according to the present invention may in principle only be present in one of the

                                               26
CH2-CH3 regions; i.e. in either the first or second CH2-CH3 region, although for most
practical purpose a mutation increasing or decreasing an effector function according to the
present invention is present in both the first and second CH2-CH3 regions of the bispecific
antibody.
        Suitable examples of monospecific, bispecific, or multispecific antibodies include any
of those described herein.
        In a particular embodiment the parent or first and/or second antibody may be
bispecific antibody such as the heterodimeric protein described in WO 11/131746, which is
hereby incorporated herein by reference.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody is a bispecific antibody which comprises a
first polypeptide comprising a first CH2-CH3 region of an immunoglobulin and a first
antigen-binding region, and a second polypeptide comprising a second CH2-CH3 region of
an immunoglobulin and a second antigen-binding region, wherein the first and second
antigen-binding regions bind different epitopes on the same antigen or on different
antigens.
        In a further embodiment said first CH2-CH3 region comprises a further amino acid
substitution at a position selected from those corresponding to K409, T366, L368, K370,
D399, F405, and Y407 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and wherein said
second CH2-CH3 region comprises a further amino acid substitution at a position selected
from those corresponding to F405, T366, L368, K370, D399, Y407, and K409 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and wherein said further amino acid substitution in
the first CH2-CH3 region is different from the said further amino acid substitution in the
second CH2-CH3 region.
        In a further embodiment said first CH2-CH3 region comprises an amino acid
substitution at a position corresponding to K409 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain; and said second CH2-CH3 region comprises an amino acid substitution at a position
corresponding to F405 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In one embodiment said method comprises introducing to each of the first and
second CH2-CH3 regions a mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from those
corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382,
Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the
mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
        In a further embodiment the mutation introduced in the first and second CH2-CH3
region in at least one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430,
S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or
S440W, may be in the same amino acid residue position or a different position. In a further

                                                27
embodiment it may be the same or a different mutation in the same amino acid residue
position.
          In another embodiment said method comprises introducing in the first or second
CH2-CH3 region a mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from those
corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382,
Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the
mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
         Any of the mutations listed in Table 1 may be introduced to the bispecific antibody.
Example 24, shows that introducing the E345R mutation to a bispecific CD20xEGFR
antibody enhances the CDC efficacy. Examples 23, 29 and 30 also describe some of the
different of bispecific antibodies comprising a mutation according to the present invention.
          In one embodiment said method comprises introducing the mutation in one or more
positions other than S440 and K447, and further introducing a mutation
(i) in each of the amino acid residues corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or
S440W,
(ii) in each of the amino acid residues corresponding to K447 and 448 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, such as K447K/R/H and 448E/D in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, preferably K447K and 448E in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, or
(iii) in each of the amino acid residues corresponding to K447, 448 and 449 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain, such as K447D/E, 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, preferably K447E, 448K and 449P in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain.
          In one embodiment, said method comprises introducing the mutation in one or more
positions other than S440, and further introducing a mutation in each of the amino acid
residues corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain,
with the proviso that the further mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
          Introduction of mutations in both amino acid residues corresponding to K439 and
S440 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain in a parent antibody, with the proviso
that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W is also referred herein to as the "double
mutant" aspect. The S440Y and S440W mutations have as described elsewhere been found
to increase an effector function when introduced into a parent antibody.
         As also described elsewhere the inventors of the present invention have found that
introducing an identified mutations in an amino acid residue corresponding to either K439 or
S440 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain results in a decrease in an effector
function (examples 5, 6, 10). However, when inhibiting mutations in both of the amino acid
residues corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain are
introduced the decrease in effector function is restored, thereby making it similar to the

                                                 28
effector function of the parent antibody without a mutation at the K439 and S440
mutations. However, the presence of the K439 and S440 mutations is, without being bound
by any theory, believed to restrict the induction of effector functions to oligomeric
complexes exclusively consisting of exclusively antibodies comprising both the K439 and the
S440 mutations. Thus if the K439 and S440 mutations are included in a therapeutic
antibody, it is believed, without being bound by any theory, that when such therapeutic
antibodies are administered to a patient the induction of effector functions is limited to
oligomeric antibody complexes containing the therapeutic antibodies comprising the
K439/S440 mutations but not containing the patients own antibodies, which do not
comprise the K439 and S440 mutations, thereby limiting any potential side-effects caused
by interaction of a therapeutic antibody with the patients own antibodies.
        When combining the mutations of position K439 and/or S440 with the first mutation,
enhancement of CDC is obtained and the specificity of CDC is increased.
        Thus in another aspect the present invention relates to a method of increasing the
specificity of a combination of at least a first and a second parent polypeptide comprising an
Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, comprising
        A)
        (i) introducing to the first parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid residue in
the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
        (ii) introducing to the second parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid residue
in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with
the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W,
        B)
        (i) introducing to the first parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid residue in
the position corresponding to K447D/E in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
        (ii) introducing to the second parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid residue
in the position corresponding to K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain; or
        C)
        (i) introducing to the first parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid residue in
the position corresponding to K447D/E in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
        (ii) introducing to the second parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid residue
in the position corresponding to K447K/R/H, 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In one embodiment the parent polypeptide, first parent polypeptide and second
parent polypeptide may each be an antibody.
        Thus in further aspect the present invention also relates to a method of increasing
the specificity of a combination of at least a first and a second parent antibody, comprising

                                                 29
        (i) introducing to the first parent antibody a mutation in an amino acid residue in the
position corresponding to K439 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
        (ii) introducing to the second parent antibody a mutation in an amino acid residue in
the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
        The first and second variant antibodies will have preference for oligomerization with
one another compared to any wildtype or naturally occurring antibody as shown in Example
10.
        The increase in specificity is with respect to "induction of an effector funtion". Thus
said method is in one embodiment a method of increasing the specificity of induction of an
effector funtion by a combination of at least a first and a second parent antibody.
        By performing the method of increasing the specificity, or specificity of induction of
an effector function, by a combination of at least a first and a second parent antibody, a
combination of a first variant and a second variant antibody is obtained.
        By introducing a mutation in either K439 or S440 of a parent antibody, the variant
antibody thereby obtained has a decreased effector function compared to the parent
antibody. However, as also described elsewhere herein, the mutation in K439 and S440 are
able to complement each other or restore the effector function of an antibody comprising
both mutations. This ability of the mutations in K439 and S440 to complement each other
may similarly be utilized in two antibodies. Thus, when a mutation in K439 is introduced
into a a first parent antibody and a mutation in S440 is introduced into a second parent
antibody, or vice versa, the decrease in effector function is no longer seen as the first and
second variant antibody are used in combination. The term "increasing specificity" or
"improving specificity" refers in this context to that an effector response induced by a
combination of a first variant antibody comprising a mutation in K439 and a second variant
antibody comprising a mutation in S440 is higher than the effector response induced by
either the first variant antibody comprising a mutation in K439 or the second variant
antibody comprising a mutation in S440.
        By the introduction of both an amino acid substitution in a K439 and S440 the
specificity of oligomerization is increased.
        When combining the mutations of position K439 and/or S440 with the first mutation,
enhancement of CDC is obtained and the specificity of CDC is increased.
        In one embodiment the at least first and second parent antibodies bind to same
epitope.
        In one embodiment the at least first and second parent antibodies bind to different
epitopes on the same antigen.
         In one embodiment the at least first and second parent antibodies bind to different
epitopes on different targets.

                                                30
         In one embodiment the first and second parent antibody have the same or different
VL and VH sequences.
         In one embodiment the combination of at least a first and a second parent antibody
comprises one first parent antibody and one second antibody.
         In one embodiment, the specificity is increased, when a combination of the first and
second parent antibody is bound to its antigen on an antigen-expressing cell, on a cell
membrane, or on a virion.
         Hence in another aspect the present invention also relates to use of mutation in two
or more amino acid residues of an antibody to increase the specificity of, e.g the effector
function induced by, the antibody when bound to its antigen on an antigen-expressing cell,
on a cell membrane, or on a virion, wherein
         a first mutation is in an amino acid residue corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of
a human IgG1 heavy chain;
         a second mutation is in an amino acid residue corresponding to S440 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
         In a further aspect the present invention relates to a method of increasing an
effector function of a combination of at least a first and a second parent polypeptide,
wherein the at least first and second parent polypeptide each comprises an Fc-domain of an
immunoglobulin and a binding region, wherein said method comprises
(i) introducing to the at least first and/or second parent polypeptide a mutation in one or
more amino acid residues selected from the group consisting of:
         (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
         (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
         (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
         (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
         (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain.
         In one embodiment the first and/or second parent polypeptide may each be an
antibody.
         Thus in one embodiment the present invention relates to a method of increasing an
effector function of a combination of at least a first and a second parent antibody, wherein
the at least first and second parent antibody each comprises a Fc-domain of an
immunoglobulin and an antigen-binding region, wherein said method comprises
(i) introducing to the at least first and/or second parent antibody a mutation in one or more
amino acid residues selected from the group consisting of:
         (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,

                                                31
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain.
        By performing this method a combination of at least a first and second variant
antibody is obtained. The at least af first and second variant antibody obtained by this
method have when combined an increased effector function compared to a combination of
the first and second parent antibody.
        The term "increased effector function" is to be understood as described herein.
        The first and/or second parent antibody may be any parent antibody as described
herein.
        The methods of increasing an effector function of a combination of a first and second
antibody may in particular be performed so as to obtain a first and/or second variant
antibody which has any of the features of a variant antibody as described herein. The
inventors of the present invention have found that introducing a mutation into an amino
acid residue selected from (a), (b), (c), (d) and/or (e) results in a combination of a first and
second variant antibody with an increased effector function compared to a combination of
the first and second parent antibody.
        In one embodiment the at least first and second parent antibodies bind to the same
epitope.
        In one embodiment the at least first and second parent antibodies bind to different
epitopes on the same antigen.
         In one embodiment the at least first and second parent antibodies bind to different
epitopes on different targets.
        In one embodiment the first and second parent antibody have the same or different
VL and VH sequences.
        In one embodiment the combination of at least a first and a second parent antibody
comprises one first parent antibody and one second antibody.
        In one embodiment the combination of at least a first and a second parent antibody
comprises further parent antibodies, such as a third, fourth or fifth parent antibody.
        In one embodiment (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing
allosteric mutations is an amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to P247 or
E430 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.

                                                 32
        In one embodiment (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the
CH2-CH3 region is an amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to 1253, S254
and Q311 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In one embodiment (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix is an
amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to D/E356 and T359 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In one embodiment (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand
is an amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to Y436 and S440.
       The amino acid residues in (b), (c), (d) and (e) are amino acid residues which are
located at the Fc:Fc interface of two antibodies, thus the Fc part of one antibody which can
interact with the Fc part of another antibody the two antibodies are in proximity with each
other.
       Thus in a further embodiment the mutation in the at least first and/or second parent
antibody is in at least one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345,
E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is
S440Y or S440W.
        In one embodiment (i) comprises introducing a mutation in both the first and second
parent antibodies.
        In another embodiment said method comprises:
        (i) introducing a mutation to the first parent antibody in at least one amino acid
residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254,
Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain,
with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W,
        (ii) providing the second parent antibody which does not comprise a mutation in an
amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247,
1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain.
        In one embodiment said method comprises introducing the mutation in at least one
amino residue other than S440, wherein said method further comprises the steps of
introducing the mutation in one or more positions other than S440, and wherein said
method further comprises the steps of
        (i) introducing to the first parent antibody a second mutation in the amino acid
residue corresponding to position K439 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
        (ii) introducing to the second parent antibody a second mutation in the amino acid
residue corresponding to position S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with
the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W; wherein steps (ii) and (iii)
may alternatively be

                                                 33
        (i) introducing to the first parent antibody a second mutation in the amino acid
residue corresponding to position S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with
the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W; and
        (ii) introducing to the second parent antibody a second mutation in the amino acid
residue corresponding to position K439 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        For those embodiments of the present invention wherein the second parent does not
comprise a mutation in an amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345,
E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, the term "second mutation" in step (ii) may be a
first mutation, e.g. the second parent antibody may comprise no other mutations than the
mutation introduced in step (ii). The term "second mutation" in steps (i) and (ii) are also
not intended to limit the number of mutations that may be introduced into the first and/or
second parent antibody.
         In one embodiment the parent antibody, the first parent antibody and the second
parent antibody may each be selected from the group consisting of but not limited to
monospecific, bispecific and multispecific antibodies. The bispecific may e.g. be a
heterodimeric protein.
        In one embodiment the first and second parent antibodies are monospecific
antibodies, which may e.g. bind to the same or different epitopes. If the first and second
parent antibody bind to different epitopes it may on the same or different antigen.
        In another embodiment the first parent antibody is a monospecific antibody and the
second parent antibody is bispecific or multispecific antibody, or vice versa.
        In another embodiment the first and second parent antibodies are bispecific or
multispecific antibodies. In one embodiment the first and second bispecific or multispecific
parent antibodies are the same or different antibodies. In one embodiment the first and
second bispecific or multispecific parent antibodies bind to different epitopes on the same or
different antigen. Thus in one embodiment said at least first and second parent antibodies
are bispecific or multispecific antibodies which bind different epitopes on the same antigen
or on different antigens.
        In another embodiment the first parent antibody is a monospecific antibody and the
second parent antibody is a bispecific antibody, or vice versa. The monospecific may bind
the same epitope as the bispecific (one part of the bispecific) or the monospecific and the
bispecific antibody may bind different epitopes on the same or different antigens. The
bispecific antibody may bind to different epitopes on the same or different antigens.
        In one embodiment said at least first and second parent antibodies are each a
bispecific antibody which comprises a first polypeptide comprising a first CH2-CH3 region of
an immunoglobulin and a first antigen-binding region, and a second polypeptide comprising
a second CH2-CH3 region of an immunoglobulin and a second antigen-binding region,

                                                34
wherein the first and second antigen-binding regions bind different epitopes on the same
antigen or on different antigens, and wherein said first CH2-CH3 region comprises a further
amino acid substitution at a position selected from those corresponding to K409, T366,
L368, K370, D399, F405, and Y407 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
wherein said second CH2-CH3 region comprises a further amino acid substitution at a
position selected from those corresponding to F405, T366, L368, K370, D399, Y407, and
K409 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and wherein said further amino acid
substitution in the first CH2-CH3 region is different from the said further amino acid
substitution in the second CH2-CH3 region.
         In a further embodiment said first CH2-CH3 region comprises an amino acid
substitution at a position corresponding to K409 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain; and said second CH2-CH3 region comprises an amino acid substitution at a position
corresponding to F405 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
         In one embodiment of the methods and/or uses of the present invention the parent
antibody, whether it is a parent antibody, a first parent antibody or a second parent
antibody, may contain other mutations than those of the present invention which have been
found to affect an effector funtion. Such other mutations may be introduced at the same
time as the mutations of the present invention which affect an effector function or they may
introduced sequentially, the methods or uses of the present invention are not limited to
either simultaneous or sequential introduction of mutations. The bispecific antibody may be
any bispecific antibody and the methods and uses of the present invention are not limited to
any particular bispecific format as it is foreseen that different formats may be used.
        The method of combining a first antibody which comprises one of said mutations
capable of increasing an effector function with a second antibody which does not comprise
such a mutation may as shown in Example 31 increase the effector function of the
combination. Thus, without being bound by theory, it is believed that e.g. this method may
be used to combine a therapeutic antibody, as a second antibody, which have been proven
to be safe but not efficient enough with a first antibody comprising a mutation, and thereby
resulting in a combination which is efficacous.
        Thus in one embodiment the second parent antibody which does not comprise a
mutation in an amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440,
Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, is a therapeutic antibody. In a particular embodiment it is
therapeutic antibody which has suitable safety profile. In one embodiment it may be a
therapeutic antibody which has a suitable safety profile but which is not sufficiently
efficacious.
         Examples of suitable second antibodies which does not comprise a mutation in an
amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247,

                                              35
1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, include but are not limited to any of the following; (90Y) clivatuzumab
tetraxetan; (90Y) tacatuzumab tetraxetan; (99mTc) fanolesomab; (99mTc) nofetumomab
Merpentan; (99mTc) pintumomab; 3F8; 8H9; abagovomab; abatacept; abciximab;
Actoxumab; adalimumab; adecatumumab; afelimomab; aflibercept; Afutuzumab;
alacizumab pegol; albiglutide; ALD518; alefacept; alemtuzumab; Alirocumab; altumomab;
Altumomab pentetate; alvircept sudotox; amatuximab; AMG714/HuMax-IL15; anatumomab
mafenatox; Anrukinzumab (= IMA-638); apolizumab; arcitumomab; aselizumab; atacicept;
atinumab; Atlizumab (= tocilizumab); atorolimumab; baminercept; Bapineuzumab;
basiliximab; bavituximab; bectumomab; belatacept; belimumab; benralizumab;
bertilimumab; besilesomab; bevacizumab; Bezlotoxumab; biciromab; bifarcept;
bivatuzumab; Bivatuzumab mertansine; blinatumomab; blosozumab; brentuximab vedotin;
briakinumab; briobacept; brodalumab; canakinumab; cantuzumab mertansine; cantuzumab
ravtansine; caplacizumab; capromab; Capromab pendetide; carlumab; catumaxomab;
CC49; cedelizumab; certolizumab pegol; cetuximab; Ch.14.18; citatuzumab bogatox;
cixutumumab; Clazakizumab; clenoliximab; Clivatuzumab tetraxetan; conatumumab;
conbercept; CR6261; crenezumab; dacetuzumab; daclizumab; dalantercept; dalotuzumab;
daratumumab; Demcizumab; denosumab; Detumomab; Dorlimomab aritox; drozitumab;
dulaglutide; ecromeximab; eculizumab; edobacomab; edrecolomab; efalizumab;
efungumab; elotuzumab; elsilimomab; enavatuzumab; enlimomab; enlimomab pegol;
enokizumab; ensituximab; epitumomab; epitumomab cituxetan; epratuzumab; erlizumab;
ertumaxomab; etanercept; etaracizumab; etrolizumab; exbivirumab; Fanolesomab;
faralimomab; farletuzumab; Fasinumab; FBTA05; felvizumab; Fezakinumab; ficlatuzumab;
figitumumab; flanvolumab; fontolizumab; foralumab; foravirumab; fresolimumab;
fulranumab; galiximab; ganitumab; gantenerumab; gavilimomab; gemtuzumab;
Gemtuzumab ozogamicin; gevokizumab; girentuximab; glembatumumab; Glembatumumab
vedotin; golimumab; Gomiliximab; GS6624; anti-CD74 antibodies; anti-cMet antibodies as
disclosed in WO 2011/110642; anti-Her2 antibodies as disclosed WO 2011/147986 or WO
2011/147982; anti-IL8 antibodies as disclosed in WO 2004/058797; anti-TAC antibodies as
disclosed in WO 2004/045512; anti-tissue factor (TF) antibodies as disclosed in WO
2010/066803 or WO 2011/157741; ibalizumab; ibritumomab tiuxetan; icrucumab;
igovomab; Imciromab; inclacumab; indatuximab ravtansine; infliximab; inolimomab;
inotuzumab ozogamicin; intetumumab; iodine (1241) girentuximab; ipilimumab;
iratumumab; itolizumab; ixekizumab; keliximab; labetuzumab; lebrikizumab; lemalesomab;
lenercept; lerdelimumab; lexatumumab; libivirumab; lintuzumab; lorvotuzumab
mertansine; lucatumumab; lumiliximab; mapatumumab; maslimomab; matuzumab;
mavrilimumab; mepolizumab; metelimumab; milatuzumab; minretumomab; mirococept;
mitumomab; mogamulizumab; morolimumab; motavizumab; moxetumomab; pasudotox;

                                               36
muromonab-CD3; nacolomab tafenatox; namilumab; naptumomab estafenatox;
narnatumab; natalizumab; nebacumab; necitumumab; nerelimomab; nimotuzumab;
Nivolumab; Nofetumomab; merpentan; obinutuzumab; Ocaratuzumab; ocrelizumab;
odulimomab; ofatumumab; olaratumab; olokizumab; omalizumab; onartuzumab; onercept;
oportuzumab monatox; oregovomab; otelixizumab; oxelumab; ozoralizumab; pagibaximab;
palivizumab; panitumumab; panobacumab; pascolizumab; pateclizumab; patritumab;
pegsunercept; Pemtumomab; pertuzumab; pexelizumab; Pintumomab; Placulumab;
ponezumab; priliximab; pritumumab; PRO 140; quilizumab; racotumomab; radretumab;
rafivirumab; ramucirumab; ranibizumab; raxibacumab; regavirumab; reslizumab;
RG1507/HuMax-IGF1R; RG1512/HuMax-pSelectin; rilonacept; rilotumumab; rituximab;
robatumumab; roledumab; romosozumab; rontalizumab; rovelizumab; ruplizumab;
samalizumab; sarilumab; satumomab; Satumomab pendetide; secukinumab; sevirumab;
sibrotuzumab; sifalimumab; siltuximab; siplizumab; sirukumab; solanezumab; solitomab;
Sonepcizumab; sontuzumab; sotatercept; stamulumab; sulesomab; suvizumab; tabalumab;
Tacatuzumab tetraxetan; tadocizumab; talizumab; tanezumab; taplitumomab paptox;
tefibazumab; telimomab aritox; tenatumomab; teneliximab; teplizumab; teprotumumab;
TGN1412; Ticilimumab (= tremelimumab); tigatuzumab; TNX-650; Tocilizumab (=
atlizumab); toralizumab; torapsel; tositumomab; tralokinumab; trastuzumab; trastuzumab
emtansine; TRBSO7; trebananib; tregalizumab; tremelimumab; tucotuzumab celmoleukin;
tuvirumab; ublituximab; urelumab; urtoxazumab; ustekinumab; vapaliximab; vatelizumab;
vedolizumab; veltuzumab; vepalimomab; vesencumab; visilizumab; volociximab;
Vorsetuzumab mafodotin; votumumab; zalutumumab; zanolimumab; ziralimumab; and
zolimomab aritox.
        In one embodiment of the methods and uses of the present invention the mutation
in at least one amino acid residue, or in one or more amino acids residues, corresponding to
E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in
the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is
S440Y or S440W, may be in any of the exemplary and preferred amino acid positions listed
in Table 1. Hence each of the amino acid positions listed in Table 1 is a separate and non
limiting embodiment of a mutation in the at least one amino acid.
        Any of the mutations or combinations thereof described herein may be introduced
according to a method of the present invention.
        Mutations selected from the exemplary or preferred amino acid substitutions can be
tested in appropriate assays allowing for oligomer formation of antigen-bound antibodies
and detecting enhanced Clq-binding, complement activation, CDC, ADCC and/or
internalization, such as those described in the Examples. For example, Clq-binding avidity
can be determined according to an assay similar to the one described in Example 4, using
cells expressing the antigen for the antibody variant. Exemplary CDC assays are provided in

                                             37
Examples 5, 6, 10, 16, 19, 22, 23, 24, or 25. An exemplary ADCC assay is provided in
Example 12. An exemplary internalization assay is provided in Example 26. Finally, to
discriminate between mutations in amino acid residues directly involved in C1q-binding from
mutations affecting oligomer formation, C1q-binding in an ELISA assay according to, e.g.,
Example 3 can be compared to C1q-binding in a cell-based assay according to, e.g.,
Example 4.
        In a further embodiment said mutation is selected from those corresponding to
E345, E430, S440 and Q386 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso
that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
        In an alternative embodiment the mutation in at least one amino acid residue, or one
or more amino acid residues, is in an amino acid residue corresponding to E382 and H433 in
the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In a particular embodiment one mutation is in the amino acid residue corresponding
to E345 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In a particular embodiment one mutation is in the amino acid residue corresponding
to E430 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In a particular embodiment one mutation is in the amino acid residue corresponding
to S440 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation is
S440Y or S440W.
        In a particular embodiment one mutation is in the amino acid residue corresponding
to Q386 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In an alternative embodiment one mutation is in the amino acid residue
corresponding to E382 or H433 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In one embodiment the mutation in at least one amino acid residue may be an
amino acid substitution, an amino acid deletion or an amino acid insertion.
        In one embodiment the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is an amino acid
deletion.
        In one embodiment the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is an amino acid
insertion.
        In a particular embodiment mutation in at least one amino acid residue is an amino
acid substitution.
        In one embodiment the mutation in at least one amino acid residue may be selected
from any of the amino acid substitutions, amino acid deletions listed in Table 1. Further,
each preferred amino acid substitution in each specific amino acid residue listed in Table 1 is
a separate and specific non-limiting embodiment for this use. Exemplary amino acid
substitutions include exchanging an E residue for an R residue, and exchanging an H residue
for an R residue.

                                               38
        In a further embodiment the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is an amino
acid substitution selected from those corresponding to E345X, E430X, S440Y or W, and
Q386K in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, wherein X refers to any amino acid,
e.g. any natural amino acid or non-natural occuring amino acid. X may in particular refer to
any of the 20 naturally occuring amino acids.
        Thus in one embodiment the mutation is in at least one amino acid residue selected
from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440 to Y or W, and Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, preferably wherein the mutation is at least one amino acid
substitution of the following: E345 to R, Q, N, or K, E430 to T, S, or G, S440 to Y or W, or
Q386 to K.
        Thus in one embodiment E345X may be E345R, Q, N, K, Y, A, C, D, F, G, H, I, L, M,
P, S, T, V, W, or Y; in particular E345A, D, G, H, K, N, Q, R, S, T, Y or W, or more
particularly E345D, K, N, Q, R, or W; or even more particulary E345R, Q, N, K, or Y,. In
another further embodiment E430X may be E430T, S, G, F, H, A, C, D, I, K, L, M, N, P, Q,
R, V, W, or Y; in particular E430T, S, G, F, or H. In a preferred embodiment the amino acid
substitution is selected from the group comprising E345R, E345Q, E345N, E345K, E345Y,
E430T, E430S, E430G, E430F, E430H, S440W and S440Y. In a further embodiment the
mutation in at least one amino acid residue is selected from E345R and E430G. In a further
embodiment the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is E345R. In a further
embodiment the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is E430G.
        In an alternative embodiment the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is
selected from those corresponding to 1253, H310, Q311, E382, G385, H433, N434, Y436,
and Q438 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, such as E382 or H433. In a
further alternative embodiment the mutation in at least one amino acid residue may an
amino acid substitution selected from those corresponding to 1253E, N, Q, S or T, e.g.
1253N or Q; H310N, Q, W or Y, e.g. H310Q; Q311E or R, E382D, H, K, R, N, Q, S, T, W or
Y, e.g. E382D, Q, K, or R; G385E, H, K, N, Q, R, S, T, W or Y, e.g. G385D, E, K or R;
H433R; N434D, E, H, K, Q, R, S, T, W or Y, e.g. N434H, K, Q or R; Y436A, E, F, H, I, K, L,
M, N, Q, R, S, T or V, e.g. Y436N, Q, S or T; Q438A, E, G, H, K, N, Q, R, S, T, W or Y, or
e.g. Q438 N, S or T.
        Thus in an even further alternative embodiment the mutation in at least one amino
acid residue may be an amino acid substition selected from those corresponding to P247G,
1253V, S254L/V, Q311L/W, D/E356G/R, T359R, E382L/V, and Y4361 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, e.g. in particular E382L, V, D, Q, K, or R or H433R. In a further
alternative embodiment the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is selected from
E382R and H433R. In an alternative embodiment, the mutation is E382R. In another
alternative embodiment, the mutation is H433R.

                                              39
        In another embodiment, the mutation is not in an amino acid residue directly
involved in Clq-binding, optionally as determined by comparing Clq-binding in an ELISA
assay according to Example 3 with Clq-binding in a cell-based assay according to Example
4.
        In one embodiment, the mutation is not in an amino acid residue corresponding to
1253, N434, or Q311, and optionally not in an amino acid residue corresponding to H433, or
the amino acid substitution is not H433A.
        In one embodiment, the at least one mutation is one mutation, i.e. no more than
one mutation is introduced to the parent antibody.
        In another embodiment, the method or use according to the present invention
comprises introducing a mutation in at least two, such as two, three, four, five, or more of
the amino acids residues in Table 1.
       Any of the combinations of mutations described herein may be introduced according
to a method of the present invention.
        In one embodiment the method or uses according to the present invention comprises
introducing to the parent antibody a mutation in at least two amino acid residues selected
from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356,
T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
        In one embodiment the method or uses according to the present invention comprises
introducing to the parent antibody a mutation in at least two amino acid residues selected
from those corresponding to E345, E430, Q386, and S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W, such as
wherein the mutation in the at least two amino acids are selected from the following: E345
to R, Q, N, or K, E430 to T, S, or G, S440 to Y or W, or Q386 to K.
        In an alternative embodiment the positions of the first mutation may be selected
from the group consisting of positions 1253, H310, Q311, E345, E382, G385, H433, N434,
Y436, and Q438.
        In one embodiment, the method further comprises introducing to the antibody a
further/third mutation in an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E430, P247, 1253,
S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Q386, Y436, or K447 in both the first and/or the second
Fc-regions.
        For example more than one, such as two, three, four, or five, in particular two or
three mutations are introduced to the parent antibody in amino acid residues selected from
those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359,
E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain. For example, at least
one of the amino acid residues corresponding to E345, E430 and S440 in the Fc region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, may be mutated, such as two or all of E345, E430 and S440,

                                              40
optionally in combination with a mutation in one or more other amino acids listed in Table 1.
The at least two mutations may be any amino acid residue substitution of position E345 in
combination with any amino acid residue substitution of position E430 or S440, or may be
any amino acid substitution of position E430 in combination with any amino acid residue of
position S440.
        In a further embodiment the two or three mutations are introduced to the parent
antibody in amino acid residues selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440 and
Q386 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
         In one embodiment the more than one mutation may in particular be amino acid
substitions.
        Thus according to the present invention, the method or use, comprises introducing to
the antibody at least one, such as one, two, three, four, five, or six, amino acid substitution
selected from the following group consisting of P247G, 1253V, S254L, Q311L/W, E345X,
D/E356G/R, T359R, E382L/V, Q386K, E430X, Y4361, and S440Y/W. In the preferred
embodiments, the amino acid substitution is selected from the group consisiting of E345X,
E430X, S440Y/W, and Q386K.
        In an alternative embodiment, the at least two mutations, such as two, three, four or
five mutations, are in amino acid residues selected from those corresponding to H310,
G385, H433, N434, and Q438 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In another alternative embodiment, the at least one mutation, optionally two or
three mutations, are selected from the group consisting of E345R, E382R, and H433R. In
another alternative embodiment, at least one of the amino acid residues corresponding to
E382 and H433 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain may be mutated, such as
both, optionally in combination with a mutation in one or more other amino acids listed in
Table 1.
        In some embodiments of the methods and/or uses of the present invention a
mutation in an amino acid residue corresponding to K439 and/or S440 is introduced in an
antibody selected from the group consisting of a parent antibody, a first parent antibody, a
second parent antibody and combinations thereof. As described above introducing a
mutation in the amino acid residues corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, is shown to limit the intermolecular interactions between
antibodies to those comprising such mutations (Examples 4, 5, 6, 10). Depending on
whether the K439 and S440 are introduced to the same parent antibody or in a first and
second parent antibody, respectively, these aspects are also referred to as "double mutant"
and "mixed mutant" aspect.
        In one embodiment of the present invention, the mutation in an amino acid residue
corresponding to K439 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain is an amino acid
substitution.

                                               41
         In one embodiment of the present invention, the mutation in an amino acid residue
corresponding to S440 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain is an amino acid
substitution.
         In all embodiments of the present invention wherein a mutation in a position
corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, whether in
the same polypeptide or antibody, or in first and second polypeptide or antibody may be
replaced by a mutation in:
(i) in each of the amino acid residues corresponding to K447 and 448 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, such as K447K/R/H and 448E/D in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, preferably K447K and 448E in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, or
(ii) in each of the amino acid residues corresponding to K447, 448 and 449 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain, such as K447D/E, 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, preferably K447E, 448K and 449P in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain.
         Thus combinations of such mutations include any of those described in Table 2A and
2B.
         In one embodiment of the present invention, the mutations in an amino acid residue
corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain are both an
amino acid substitution.
         In one embodiment, the mutation in an amino acid residue corresponding to K439 in
the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain is an amino acid substitution into an amino acid
selected from E and D.
         In another embodiment, the mutation is K439E.
         In one embodiment, the mutation in an amino acid residue corresponding to S440 in
the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain is an amino acid substitution into an amino acid
selected from K, R and H.
         In another embodiment, the mutation is S440K.
         Thus in a further embodiment the mutations introduced to the parent antibody in the
amino acid residues corresponding K439 and S440 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain are amino acid substitutions selected from K439E and D and S440K, R and H.
         Thus in a further embodiment the mutations introduced to the parent antibody in the
amino acid residues corresponding K439 and S440 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain are the amino acid substitutions K439E and S440K.
         Some methods and uses of the present invention comprise a first and a second
parent antibody.
         Thus in a further embodiment the mutation introduced to the first parent antibody in
an amino acid residue corresponding K439 is an amino acid substitution selected from
K439E and D, e.g. K439E and the mutation introduced to the second parent antibody in an

                                               42
amino acid residue corresponding S440 is an amino acid substitution selected from S440K,
R and H, e.g. S440K. The mutations in the first and second parent antibody may be
introduced vice versa, i.e. it may also be that the mutation in an amino acid residue
corresponding to S440 is introduced in the first parent antibody, while the mutation in in an
amino acid residue corresponding to K439 is introduced in the second parent antibody
wherein the mutations may be the preferred amino acid substitutions as described above.
        In one embodiment of the methods or uses according to the present invention, the
effector function is increased when the antibody is bound to its antigen.
        In a further embodiment the effector function is increased when the antibody is
bound to its antigen, wherein the antigen is on an antigen-expressing cell, cell membrane,
or virion. In one embodiment, the Fc-region of an IgG1 heavy chain comprises the sequence
of residues 130 to 330 of SEQ ID NO:1.
        The parent antibody may be any parent antibody as described herein. The parent
antibody in this context is intended to be also first parent and second parent antibodies.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody is a human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4,
IgAl, IgA2, IgD or IgE antibody.
        In one embodiment the parent antibody is human full-length antibody, such as a
human full-length IgG1 antibody.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody, first parent antibody and second parent
antibody is a human IgG1 antibody, e.g. the IgGlm(za) or IgGlm(f) allotype, optionally
comprising an Fc-region comprising SEQ ID NO: 1 or 5.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody is a human IgG2 antibody, optionally
comprising an Fc-region comprising SEQ ID NO:2.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody is a human IgG3 antibody, optionally
comprising an Fc-region comprising SEQ ID NO:3.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody is a human IgG4 antibody, optionally
comprising an Fc-region comprising SEQ ID NO:4.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody is a bispecific antibody.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody is any antibody as described herein, e.g. an
antibody fragment comprising at least part of an Fc-region, monovalent antibodies
(described in W02007059782 by Genmab); heavy-chain antibodies, consisting only of two
heavy chains and naturally occurring in e.g. camelids (e.g., Hamers-Casterman (1993)
Nature 363:446); ThioMabs (Roche, W02011069104), strand-exchange engineered domain
(SEED or Seed-body) which are asymmetric and bispecific antibody-like molecules (Merck,
W02007110205); Triomab (Fresenius, Lindhofer et al. (1995 J Immunol 155:219); FcAAdp
(Regeneron, W02010151792), Azymetric Scaffold (Zymeworks/Merck, W02012/058768),
mAb-Fv (Xencor, W02011/028952), Dual variable domain immunoglobulin (Abbott, DVD
Ig,U.S. Patent No. 7,612,181); Dual domain double head antibodies (Unilever; Sanofi

                                               43
Aventis, W020100226923), Di-diabody (ImClone/Eli Lilly), Knobs-into-holes antibody
formats (Genentech, W09850431 ); DuoBody (Genmab, WO 2011/131746); Electrostatic
steering antibody formats (Amgen, EP1870459 and WO 2009089004; Chugai,
US201000155133; Oncomed, W02010129304A2); bispecific IgG1 and IgG2 (Rinat
neurosciences Corporation, W011143545), CrossMAbs (Roche, W02011117329), LUZ-Y
(Genentech), Biclonic (Merus), Dual Targeting domain antibodies (GSK/Domantis), Two-in
one Antibodies recognizing two targets (Genentech, NovImmune), Cross-linked Mabs
(Karmanos Cancer Center), CovX-body (CovX/Pfizer), IgG-like Bispecific (ImClone/Eli Lilly,
Shen, J., et al. J Immunol Methods, 2007. 318(1-2): p. 65-74), and DIG-body and PIG
body (Pharmabcine), , and Dual-affinity retargeting molecules (Fc-DART or Ig-DART, by
Macrogenics, WO/2008/157379, WO/2010/080538), Zybodies (Zyngenia), approaches with
common light chain (Crucell/ Merus, US7262028) or common heavy chains (dkBodies by
NovImmune), as well as fusion proteins comprising a polypeptide sequence fused to an
antibody fragment containing an Fc-domain like scFv-fusions, like BsAb by
ZymoGenetics/BMS), HERCULES by Biogen Idec (US007951918), SCORPIONS by Emergent
BioSolutions/Trubion, Ts2Ab (MedImmune/AZ (Dimasi, N., et al. J Mol Biol, 2009. 393(3):
p. 672-92), scFv fusion by Novartis, scFv fusion by Changzhou Adam Biotech Inc (CN
102250246), TvAb by Roche (WO 2012025525, WO 2012025530), mAb 2 by f-Star
(W02008/003116), and dual scFv-fusions. It also should be understood that the term
antibody, unless specified otherwise, also includes polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal
antibodies (such as human monoclonal antibodies), antibody mixtures (recombinant
polyclonals) for instance generated by technologies exploited by Symphogen and Merus
(Oligoclonics), and antibody-like polypeptides, such as chimeric antibodies and humanized
antibodies. An antibody as generated can potentially possess any isotype.
        optionally selected from the group consisting of a monovalent antibody, a heavy
chain antibody, a strand-exchange engineered domain (SEED), a triomab, a dual variable
domain immunoglobulin (DVD-Ig), a knob-into-holes antibody, a mini-antibody, a dual
affinity retargeting molecule (Fc-DART or Ig-DART); a LUZ-Y antibody, a Biclonic antibody,
a Dual Targeting (DT)-Ig antibody, a Two-in-one Antibody, a cross-linked Mab, a mAb 2 , a
CovX-body, an IgG-like Bispecific antibody, a Ts2Ab, a BsAb, a HERCULES antibody, a TvAb,
an ScFv/Fc Fusion antibody, a SCORPION, an scFv fragment fused to an Fc domain, and a
dual scFv fragment fused to an Fc domain.
         In another embodiment, the antigen is expressed on the surface of a cell.
         In another embodiment, the cell is a human tumor cell.
         In a further embodiment, the antigen is selected from the group consisting of erbB1
(EGFR), erbB2 (HER2), erbB3, erbB4, MUC-1, CD4, CD19, CD20, CD38, CD138, CXCR5, c
Met, HERV-envelop protein, periostin, Bigh3, SPARC, BCR, CD79, CD37, EGFrvIII, IGFr, L1
CAM, AXL, Tissue Factor (TF), CD74, EpCAM and MRP3.

                                                44
        In another embodiment, the antigen is associated with a cell membrane.
        In another embodiment, the antigen is associated with a virion, optionally wherein
the antigen is comprised in the protein coat or a lipid envelope of the virion.
        In another embodiment, the antibody is a human antibody, optionally binding at
least one antigen selected from CD20 and CD38.
        In another embodiment, the antibody binds to the same epitope as at least one of
7D8 and 005, optionally comprising a variable heavy and/or variable light chain region of at
least one of 7D8 and 005.
        In any use according to the disclosed invention the antibody without any mutations
of the present invention may be any parent antibody. Thus, the uses herein provides for any
variants of such parent antibodies.
        In a further embodiment of the present invention, the effector function is an Fc
mediated effector function selected from Clq-binding, complement activation, complement
dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxity (ADCC), FcRn
binding, Fc-receptor binding including Fc-gamma receptor-binding, Protein A-binding,
Protein G-binding, antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP), complement
dependent cellular cytotoxicity (CDCC), complement-enhanced cytotoxicity, opsonisation,
Fc-containing polypeptide internalization, target downmodulation, ADC uptake, induction of
apoptosis, cell death, cell cycle arrest, and any combination thereof.
        In a particular embodiment the effector function is Clq-binding, complement
activation (Clq efficacy)complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody-dependent
cell-mediated cytotoxity (ADCC), Fc-receptor binding, e.g Fc-gamma receptor-binding, Fc
containing polypeptide internalization or any combination thereof.
        In one embodiment the effector function is Clq-binding.
        In one embodiment the effector function is complement activation (Clq efficacy).
        In one embodiment the effector function is complement dependent cytotoxicity
(CDC).
        In one embodiment the effector function is antibody-dependent cell-mediated
cytotoxity (ADCC).
        In one embodiment the effector function is Fc-receptor binding, e.g. including Fc
gamma receptor-binding.
        In one embodiment the effector function is Fc-containing polypeptide internalization.
        In one embodiment the effector function is a combination of complement dependent
cytotoxicity (CDC) and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxity (ADCC).
        In another embodiment, the one or more mutations increase a further effector
function selected from FcRn-binding, ADCC, Fc-gamma receptor-binding, Protein A-binding,
Protein G-binding, ADCP, complement-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (CDCC), complement-

                                               45
enhanced cytotoxicity, binding to complement receptor of an opsonized antibody mediated
by the antibody, and any combination thereof.
        In another aspect, the invention relates to a method of increasing the avidity of a
preparation of a parent antibody for C1q, comprising the step of mutating at least one
amino acid in the Fc-region of the antibody, wherein the at least one amino acid is selected
from the group consisting of E345, E430, S440, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359,
E382, Q386, Y436, and K447.
As used herein, the term "Clq-binding", when used in the context of a variant or antibody
of a parent antibody includes any mechanism of the first component on the classical
pathway of complement acitivation mediated by binding of the variant or antibody to host
tissues or factors, including various cells of the immune system (such as effector cells).
Clq-binding of an antibody can be evaluated using an ELISA (such as e.g. Clq-binding
ELISA used in Examples 3 and 4), or the C1q efficacy can be evaluated by a CDC assay
(such as e.g. the CDC assay used in Example 5). In a further embodiment, the Clq-binding
avidity of the antibody is determined according to the assay described in Example 4.
        In all the methods according to the disclosed invention the antibody without any
mutations of the present invention may be any parent antibody. Thus, the methods herein
provides for any variants of such parent antibodies.
        The parent antibody, the first parent antibody, the second parent antibody, or the
variants thereof obtained by the methods and/or uses of the present invention may bind to
any target as described herein.
        Examples of antigens or targets that the invention may be directed against are; 5T4;
ADAM-10; ADAM-12; ADAM17; AFP; AXL; ANGPT2 anthrax antigen; BSG; CAIX; CAXII; CA
72-4; carcinoma associated antigen CTAA16.88; CCL11; CCL2; CCR4; CCR5; CCR6; CD2;
CD3E; CD4; CD5; CD6; CD15; CD18; CD19; CD20; CD22; CD24; CD25; CD29; CD30;
CD32B; CD33; CD37; CD38; CD40; CD40LG; CD44; CD47; CD52; CD56; CD66E; CD72;
CD74; CD79a; CD79b; CD80; CD86; CD98; CD137; CD147; CD138; CD168; CD200;
CD248; CD254; CD257; CDH3; CEA; CEACAM5; CEACAM6; CEACAM8; Claudin4; CS-1;
CSF2RA; CSPG-4; CTLA4; Cripto; DLL4; ED-B; EFNA2; EGFR; Endothelin B receptor;
ENPP3; EPCAM; ERBB2; ERBB3; FAP alpha; Fc gamma RI; FCER2; FGFR3; fibrin II beta
chain; FLT1; FOLH1; FOLR1; FRP-1; GD3 ganglioside; GDF2; GLP1R; Glypican-3; GPNMB;
HBV (hepatitis B virus); HCMV (human cytomegalovirus); heat shock protein 90 homolog
[Candida albicans]; herpes simplex virus gD glycoprotein; HGF; HIV-1; HIV-1 IIIB gp120 V3
loop; HLA-DRB (HLA-DR beta); human respiratory syncytial virus, glycoprotein F; ICAM1;
IFNA1; IFNA1; IFNB1 bispecific; IgE Fc; IGF1R; IGHE connecting region; IL12B; IL13; IL15;
IL17A; IL1A; IL1B; IL2RA; IL4; IL5; IL5RA; IL6; IL6R; IL9; interleukin-2 receptor beta
subunit; ITGA2; ITGA2B ITGB3; ITGA4 ITGB7; ITGA5; ITGAL; ITGAVITGB3; ITGB2; KDR;
L1CAM; Lewis-y; lipid A, domain of lipopolyaccharide LPS; LTA; MET; MMP14; MMp15;

                                                46
MST1R; MSTN; MUC1; MUC4; MUC16; MUC5AC; NCA-90 granulocyte cell antigen; Nectin 4;
NGF; NRP; NY-ESO-1; OX40L; PLAC-1; PLGF; PDGFRA; PD1; PDL1; PSCA;
phosphatidylserine; PTK-7; Pseudomonas aeruginosa serotype IATS 011; RSV (human
respiratory syncytial virus, glycoprotein F); ROR1; RTN4; SELL; SELP; STEAP1; Shiga-like
toxin II B subunit [Escherichia coli]; SLAM7; SLC44A4; SOST; Staphylococcus epidermidis
lipoteichoic acid; T cell receptor alphabeta; TF; TGFB1; TGFB2; TMEFF2; TNC; TNF;
TNFRSF10A; TNFRSF10B; TNFRSF12A; TNFSF13; TNFSF14; TNFSF2; TNFSF7; TRAILR2;
TROP2; TYRP1; VAP-1; and Vimentin.
Methods of inducing an effector response
        It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.
        In a further main aspect the present invention relates to a method of inducing an
effector response, against a cell, cell membrane, or virion expressing a target to which a
parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region
binds, comprising
        (i) providing a parent polypeptide or a combination of at least a first parent
polypeptide and a second parent polypeptide which has been mutated according to any one
of the claims 1 to 24; and
        (ii) contacting a preparation of the mutated parent polypeptide of step (i) or the
mutated combination of at least a first parent polypeptide and a second parent polypeptide
of step (i) with the cell, cell membrane, or virion expressing an antigen in the presence of
human complement or an effector cell.
        In one embodiment any or all of the parent polypeptide, first parent polypeptide and
second parent polypeptide may be an antibody.
        Thus in one embodiment the present invention relates to methods of using the
antibody variants described herein for inducing an effector response, e.g complement
activation, CDC or other effector response against a cell, cell membrane, virion or other
particle associated with the antigen or antigens.The present invention also relates to a
method of inducing an effector response, against a cell, cell membrane, or virion expressing
an antigen to which a parent antibody binds, comprising
        (i) providing a parent antibody or a combination of at least a first parent antibody
and a second parent antibody which has been mutated according to any of the methods
described herein; and
        (ii) contacting a preparation of the mutated parent antibody of step (i) or the
mutated combination of at least a first parent antibody and a second parent antibody of

                                                47
step (i) with the cell, cell membrane, or virion expressing an antigen in the presence of
human complement or an effector cell.
        The parent antibody, the first parent antibody and the second parent antibody may
each be selected from any parent antibody described herein, in particular any of those
described above in relation to the methods of affecting an effector function of an antibody.
        in one embodiment, the antigen is expressed on the surface of a cell.
        In one embodiment, the cell is a human tumor cell.
        In a further embodiment, the antigen is selected from the group consisting of erbB1
(EGFR), erbB2 (HER2), erbB3, erbB4, MUC-1, CD4, CD19, CD20, CD38, CD138, CXCR5, c
Met, HERV-envelop protein, periostin, Bigh3, SPARC, BCR, CD79, CD37, EGFrvIII, IGFr, Li
CAM, AXL, Tissue Factor (TF), CD74, EpCAM and MRP3.
        In another embodiment, the antigen is associated with a cell membrane.
        In another embodiment, the antigen is associated with a virion, optionally wherein
the antigen is comprised in the protein coat or a lipid envelope of the virion.
        In another embodiment, the antibody is a human antibody, optionally binding at
least one antigen selected from CD20 and CD38.
        In another embodiment, the antibody binds to the same epitope as at least one of
7D8 and 005, optionally comprising a variable heavy and/or variable light chain region of at
least one of 7D8 and 005.
        In a further embodiment of the present invention, the induced effector response is
complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), an Fc-mediated effector response selected from
an Fc-mediated effector response selected from Ciq-binding, complement activation,
complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxity
(ADCC), FcRn-binding, Fc-receptor binding including Fc-gamma receptor-binding, Protein A
binding, Protein G-binding, antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP), complement
dependent cellular cytotoxicity (CDCC), complement-enhanced cytotoxicity , opsonisation,
Fc-containing polypeptide internalization, target downmodulation, ADC uptake, induction of
apoptosis, cell death, cell cycle arrest, and any combination thereof.
        In a particular embodiment the effector response is Ciq-binding, complement
activation (Ciq efficacy), complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody-dependent
cell-mediated cytotoxity (ADCC), Fc-receptor binding, e.g Fc-gamma receptor-binding, Fc
containing polypeptide internalization or any combination thereof.
        In one embodiment the effector response is Ciq-binding.
        In one embodiment the effector response is complement activation (Ciq efficacy).
        In one embodiment the effector response is complement dependent cytotoxicity
(CDC).
        In one embodiment the effector response is antibody-dependent cell-mediated
cytotoxity (ADCC).

                                               48
        In one embodiment the effector response is Fc-receptor binding, e.g. including Fc
gamma receptor-binding.
        In one embodiment the effector response is Fc-containing polypeptide
internalization.
        In one embodiment the effector response is a combination of complement dependent
cytotoxicity (CDC) and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxity (ADCC).
        In another embodiment, the method increases a further effector response selected
from FcRn-binding, ADCC, Fc-gamma receptor-binding, Protein A-binding, Protein G
binding, ADCP, complement-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (CDCC), complement-enhanced
cytotoxicity, binding to complement receptor of an opsonized antibody mediated by the
antibody, and any combination thereof.
        In another aspect, the invention relates to a method of increasing the avidity of a
preparation of a parent antibody for C1q, comprising the step of mutating at least one
amino acid in the Fc-region of the antibody, wherein the at least one amino acid is selected
from the group consisting of E345, E430, S440, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359,
E382, Q386, Y436, and K447.
        Examples of antigens or targets that the invention may be directed against are; 5T4;
ADAM-10; ADAM-12; ADAM17; AFP; AXL; ANGPT2 anthrax antigen; BSG; CAIX; CAXII; CA
72-4; carcinoma associated antigen CTAA16.88; CCL11; CCL2; CCR4; CCR5; CCR6; CD2;
CD3E; CD4; CD5; CD6; CD15; CD18; CD19; CD20; CD22; CD24; CD25; CD29; CD30;
CD32B; CD33; CD37; CD38; CD40; CD40LG; CD44; CD47; CD52; CD56; CD66E; CD72;
CD74; CD79a; CD79b; CD80; CD86; CD98; CD137; CD147; CD138; CD168; CD200;
CD248; CD254; CD257; CDH3; CEA; CEACAM5; CEACAM6; CEACAM8; Claudin4; CS-1;
CSF2RA; CSPG-4; CTLA4; Cripto; DLL4; ED-B; EFNA2; EGFR; Endothelin B receptor;
ENPP3; EPCAM; ERBB2; ERBB3; FAP alpha; Fc gamma RI; FCER2; FGFR3; fibrin II beta
chain; FLT1; FOLH1; FOLR1; FRP-1; GD3 ganglioside; GDF2; GLP1R; Glypican-3; GPNMB;
HBV (hepatitis B virus); HCMV (human cytomegalovirus); heat shock protein 90 homolog
[Candida albicans]; herpes simplex virus gD glycoprotein; HGF; HIV-1; HIV-1 IIIB gp120 V3
loop; HLA-DRB (HLA-DR beta); human respiratory syncytial virus, glycoprotein F; ICAM1;
IFNA1; IFNA1; IFNB1 bispecific; IgE Fc; IGF1R; IGHE connecting region; IL12B; IL13; IL15;
IL17A; IL1A; IL1B; IL2RA; IL4; IL5; IL5RA; IL6; IL6R; IL9; interleukin-2 receptor beta
subunit; ITGA2; ITGA2B ITGB3; ITGA4 ITGB7; ITGA5; ITGAL; ITGAVITGB3; ITGB2; KDR;
L1CAM; Lewis-y; lipid A, domain of lipopolyaccharide LPS; LTA; MET; MMP14; MMp15;
MST1R; MSTN; MUC1; MUC4; MUC16; MUC5AC; NCA-90 granulocyte cell antigen; Nectin 4;
NGF; NRP; NY-ESO-1; OX40L; PLAC-1; PLGF; PDGFRA; PD1; PDL1; PSCA;
phosphatidylserine; PTK-7; Pseudomonas aeruginosa serotype IATS 011; RSV (human
respiratory syncytial virus, glycoprotein F); ROR1; RTN4; SELL; SELP; STEAP1; Shiga-like
toxin II B subunit [Escherichia coli]; SLAM7; SLC44A4; SOST; Staphylococcus epidermidis

                                               49
lipoteichoic acid; T cell receptor alphabeta; Tissue Factor (TF); TGFB1; TGFB2; TMEFF2;
TNC; TNF; TNFRSF10A; TNFRSF10B; TNFRSF12A; TNFSF13; TNFSF14; TNFSF2; TNFSF7;
TRAILR2; TROP2; TYRP1; VAP-1; and Vimentin.
        In one embodiment, the cell is a human tumor cell or a bacterial cell.
        In another embodiment, the antigen is selected from the group consisting of erbBi
(EGFR), erbB2 (HER2), erbB3, erbB4, MUC-1, CD4, CD19, CD20, CD25, CD32, CD37, CD38,
CD74, CD138, CXCR5, c-Met, HERV-envelop protein, periostin, Bigh3, SPARC, BCR, CD79,
EGFrvIII, IGFr, Li-CAM, EpCAM and MRP3.
        In a further embodiment, the antigen is CD20 or CD38.
        In another embodiment, the IgG1 parent antibody is a human IgG1 antibody.
        In another embodiment, the parent antibody is selected from 7D8 and 005.
        In one embodiment, the cell is a human tumor cell.
        In another embodiment, the first and second antigens are separately selected from
the group consisting of erbBi (EGFR), erbB2 (HER2), erbB3, erbB4, MUC-1, CD4, CD19,
CD20, CD25, CD32, CD37, CD38, CD74, CD138, CXCR5, c-Met, HERV-envelop protein,
periostin, Bigh3, SPARC, BCR, CD79, EGFrvIII, IGFr, Li-CAM, AXL, Tissue Factor (TF),
EpCAM and MRP3.
        In another embodiment, the first and second parent antibodies are fully human,
optionally wherein the first and second parent antibodies bind antigens separately selected
from CD20 and CD38.
        In a further embodiment, the first and second parent antibodies are separately
selected from 7D8 and 005.
        In an even further embodiment, the cell is a bacterial cell.
        In another embodiment, the bacterial cell is selected from the group consisting of S.
aureus, S.Epidermidis, S. pneumonia, Bacillus anthracis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Chlamydia, E. coli, Salmonella, Shigella, Yersinia, S. typhimurium, Neisseria meningitides
and Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
        In another embodiment, the first and/or second antigen is Lipoteichoic acid (LTA),
optionally wherein at least one of the first and second parent antibody is pagibaximab.
        In another embodiment, the antigen is expressed on a virion.
        In another embodiment, the first and second antibody binds the same antigen.
                In another embodiment, the first and second antibodies comprise the same
VH sequence, VL sequence, or both VH and VL sequence.
        For the purposes of the present invention, the target cell that expresses or is
otherwise associated with an antigen can be any prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell. Exemplary
antigen-expressing cells include, but are not limited to, mammalian cells, particularly
human cells, such as human cancer cells; and unicellular organisms such as bacteria,
protozoa, and unicellular fungi such as yeast cells. Cell membranes comprising or otherwise

                                                   50
associated with an antigen include partial and/or disrupted cell membranes derived from an
antigen-expressing cell. An antigen associated with a virion or virus particle may be
comprised in or otherwise associated with the protein coat and/or a lipid envelope of the
virion.
        The target cell may, for example, be a human tumor cell. Suitable tumor antigens
include any target or antigen described herein, but are not limited to, erbB1 (EGFR), erbB2
(HER2), erbB3, erbB4, MUC-1, CD4, CD19, CD20, CD25, CD32, CD37, CD38, CD74, CD138,
CXCR5, c-Met, HERV-envelop protein, periostin, Bigh3, SPARC, BCR, CD79, EGFrvIII, IGFR,
Li-CAM, AXL, Tissue Factor (TF), EpCAM and MRP3. Preferred antigens include CD20, CD38,
HER2, EGFR, IGFR, CD25, CD74 and CD32. Exemplary antibodies include anti-CD20
antibody 7D8 as disclosed in WO 2004/035607, anti-CD38 antibody 005 as disclosed in WO
06/099875, anti-CD20 antibody 11B8 as disclosed in WO 2004/035607, anti-CD38 antibody
003 as disclosed in WO 06/099875, anti-EGFr antibody 2F8 as disclosed in WO 02/100348.
Examples of other particular antibodies are provided herein.
        Alternatively, the target cell can be a bacterial cell, such as, e.g., S. aureus, S.
epidermidis, S. pneumonia, Bacillus anthracis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Chlamydia, E. coli,
Salmonella, Shigella, Yersinia, S. typhimurium, Neisseria meningitides and Mycobacterium
tuberculosis. Exemplary antigens include Lipoteichoic acid (LTA), and exemplary antibodies
include pagibaximab.
        Alternatively, the target may be present on the surface of a virus, fungal cell or other
particle, such as, e.g., West Nile virus, Dengue virus, hepatitis C-virus (HCV), human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), human papillomavirus, Epstein-Barr virus, Herpesviruses,
poxviruses, avian influenza virus, RVS, Aspergillus, Candida albicans, Cryptococcus, and
Histoplasma.
         In one embodiment, the contacting step (ii) takes place in vitro.
         In one embodiment, the contacting step (ii) takes place in vivo.
         In another embodiment, step (ii) comprises administering the variants to a subject.
         In a further embodiment, the subject suffers from cancer, a bacterial infection, or a
viral infection.The contacting step (ii) of the above-mentioned embodiments may take place
in vitro or in vivo. In the latter case, step (ii) may further comprise administering the
preparation or preparations to a subject, optionally a subject suffering from cancer or a
bacterial infection. Further details on therapeutic applications are provided below.
        The first and the second antibodies comprise antigen-binding regions which may bind
to the same or different epitope. Such epitopes may be on the same or different target.
         In an embodiment, the first and the second antibody binds different epitopes on
different targets. Such targets may be expressed on the same cell or cell type, or may be
expressed on different cells or cell types. In such an embodiment, the enhancement of an
effector function is directed only towards cells or cell types expressing both the targets, and

                                                51
thereby reducing the risks of any collateral damage of cells or cell types which are not the
cause of a disease to be treated.
         Without being bound by any theory, it is believed that the enhancement of CDC can
be restricted to target cells that express two specific targets/antigens simultaneously
provided that the first and second antibody bind epitopes found on the same cell, thereby
exploiting the combined expression of targets to improve selectivity of enhaved CDC
induction.
         In cases where the targets are expressed on different cells or cell types, it is believed
without being bound by theory, that the administration in any order of the first and second
antibody will improve CDC enhancement and possibly also other effector functions by
"recruitment" of a second cell or cell type expressing the second target.
         In one embodiment wherein a combination of a first and second antibody are used,
step (ii) may be performed by simultaneously, separately, or sequentially contacting the cell
with the mutated first and second parent antibodies in the presence of human complement
and/or an effector cell.
         In yet another aspect, the invention relates to a method of improving the CDC
inducing capability of a preparation of a parent antibody, comprising the step of mutating at
least one amino acid in the Fc-region of the antibody, wherein the at least one amino acid is
selected from the group consisting of E345, E430, S440, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356,
T359, E382, Q386, Y436, and K447.
         In an alternative aspect, the present invention relates to a method of inducing an
effector response, optionally a CDC-response, against a cell, cell membrane, or virion
expressing an antigen to which an IgG1 parent antibody binds, comprising
         (i) providing an antibody comprising a mutation in at least one amino acid residue
selected from the group consisting of E345, E430, S440, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356,
T359, E382, Q386, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of an IgG1 heavy chain; and
         (ii) contacting a preparation of the antibody with the cell, cell membrane, or virion in
the presence of human complement or an effector cell.
         In another alternative embodiment, the method further comprises administering a
first antibody comprising a first mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from
those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382,
Q386, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of the first antibody;
         administering a second antibody comprising a second mutation in at least one amino
acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, P247, 1253, S254,
Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Q386, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of the second antibody;
         wherein the first and second antibodies may be administered simultaneously,
separately or sequentially. The first and second antibody may bind to the same or different

                                                  52
epitope on the same or different target. The target(s) may be found on the same or
different cell or cell types.
        In another alternative aspect, the invention relates to a method of improving the
CDC-inducing capability of a preparation of an IgG1 parent antibody, comprising mutating
at least one amino acid in the Fc-region of the antibody, wherein the at least one amino acid
is selected from the group consisting of E345, E382 and H433.
        In another alternative aspect, the invention relates to a method of inducing an
effector response, optionally a CDC-response, against a cell, cell membrane, or virion
expressing an antigen to which an IgG1 parent antibody binds, comprising the steps of
        (i) providing a variant of the parent antibody comprising a mutation in at least one
amino acid in the Fc-region of the antibody, the at least one amino acid selected from the
group consisting of E345, E382 and H433; and
        (ii) contacting a preparation of the variant with the cell in the presence of human
complement or an effector cell.
        In another alternative aspect, the invention relates to a method of inducing an
effector response, optionally a CDC-response, against a cell expressing an antigen to which
an IgG1 parent antibody binds, comprising the steps of
        (i)  providing a variant of the parent antibody comprising K439E and a S440K
mutations in the Fc-reigon of the antibody; and
        (ii) contacting a preparation of the variant with the cell in the presence of human
complement or an effector cell.
        In another alternative aspect, the invention relates to a method of inducing a CDC
response against a cell, cell membrane or virion expressing a first antigen to which a first
IgG1 parent antibody binds and a second antigen to which a second parent antibody binds,
comprising the steps of
        (i) providing a first variant of the first parent antibody comprising a K439E mutation
and a second variant of the second parent antibody comprising a S440K mutation; and
        (ii) simultaneously, separately or sequentially contacting the cell with the first and
second variants in the presence of human complement and/or an effector cell.
        In another alternative aspect, the invention provides for a method of inducing a
CDC- or other effector response against a target cell, cell membrane, virion or other particle
associated with an antigen to which an IgG1 or IgG3 antibody binds, comprising the steps
of (i) providing a variant of the antibody comprising a mutation in at least one amino acid
corresponding to E345, E430 or S440 in the Fc-region of an IgG1 antibody; and (ii)
contacting a preparation of the variant with the cell in the presence of human complement
and/or effector cells.
        In further alternative aspect, the invention provides for a method of inducing ADCC
or ADCP against, or phagocytosis of, a target cell, cell membrane, virion or other particle

                                                 53
associated with an antigen to which an IgG1 or IgG3 antibody binds, comprising the steps
of (i) providing a variant of the antibody comprising a mutation in at least one amino acid
corresponding to E345, E430 or S440in the Fc-region of an IgG1 antibody; and (ii)
contacting a preparation of the variant with the cell in the presence of an effector cell.
        The invention also provides for a method of inducing a CDC or other effector
response against a target cell, cell membrane, virion or other particle associated with an
antigen to which an IgG1 or IgG3 antibody binds, comprising the steps of (i) providing a
variant of the antibody comprising a mutation in K439 which is K439E and a mutation in
S440 which is S440K or S440R in the Fc-region of the antibody; and (ii) contacting a
preparation of the variant with the cell in the presence of human complement and/or an
effector cell
        The invention also provides for a method of inducing a CDC or other effector
response against a target cell, cell membrane or virion expressing a first antigen to which a
first IgG1 antibody binds and a second antigen to which a second antibody binds,
comprising the steps of (i) providing a first variant which is the first antibody comprising a
K439E mutation and a second variant which is the second antibody comprising a S440K or
S440R mutation; and (ii) simultaneously, separately or sequentially contacting the cell with
preparations of the first and second variants in the presence of human complement or an
effector cell.
         In separate and specific embodiments, the first and second antibodies bind (i)
different antigens; (ii) different epitopes on the same antigen, (iii) the same epitope on an
antigen, and (iv) the same epitope on an antigen and comprise the same VH and/or VL
sequences.
         In one embodiment, the first and second antibodies further comprise a mutation in
one or more of E345, E430 and S440, such as E345R. In one embodiment, the first and
second antibodies further comprise a mutation in one or more of E345, E382 and H433,
such as E345R.
Other methods
         In another main aspect, the invention relates to a method of identifying a mutation
in an antibody which enhances the effector function of the antibody to bind C1q, comprising
the steps of
         (i) preparing at least one antibody comprising a mutation in at least one amino acid
selected from the group consisting of E345, E430, S440, K439, P247, 1253, S254, Q311,
D/E356, T359, E382, Q386, Y436, and K447;
         (ii) evaluating the Clq-activity of the antibody when bound to the surface of antigen
expressing cell as compared to the parent antibody; and
         (iii) selecting the mutation of any variant having an increased Clq-avidity.

                                                54
        In one embodiment, the at least one antibody comprises at least one amino acid
substitution selected from the group of E345R, E345Q, E345N, E345K, E345Y, E430T,
E430S, E430G, E430F, E430H, S440W and S440Y.
        In yet another main aspect, the invention relates to a method of identifying a
mutation in a parent antibody which increases the ability of the antibody to induce a CDC
response, comprising the steps of
        (i) preparing at least one variant of the parent antibody comprising a mutation in at
least one amino acid selected from the group consisting of E345, E430, S440, K439, P247,
1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Q386, Y436, and K447;
        (ii) evaluating the CDC-response induced by the variant when bound to the surface
of an antigen-expressing cell, in the presence of effector cells or complement, as compared
to the parent antibody; and
        (iii) selecting the mutation of any variant having an increased CDC-response.
        In one embodiment, the at least one amino acid is selected from E345, E382 and
H433.
        In one embodiment, the at least one antibody comprises at least one amino acid
substitution selected from the group of E345R, E345Q, E345N, E345K, E345Y, E430T,
E430S, E430G, E430F, E430H, S440W and S440Y.
        In another aspect, the invention relates, to a method of increasing the avidity of a
preparation of an IgG1 parent antibody for C1q, comprising mutating at least one amino
acid in the Fc-region of the antibody, wherein the at least one amino acid is selected from
the group consisting of E345, E382 and H433.
Antibodies of the present invention
Parent antibodies
        As described herein, the present invention inter alia relates to variants of parent
antibodies comprising one or more mutations in the CH2 and/or CH3 region of an
immunoglobuin, e.g. in the antibody the heavy chain. The "parent" antibodies, which may
be wild-type antibodies, to be used as starting material of the present invention before
modification may e.g. be produced by the hybridoma method first described by Kohler et
al., Nature 256, 495 (1975), or may be produced by recombinant DNA methods. Monoclonal
antibodies may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques
described in, for example, Clackson et al., Nature 352, 624 628 (1991) and Marks et al., J.
Mol. Biol. 222, 581 597 (1991). Monoclonal antibodies may be obtained from any suitable
source. Thus, for example, monoclonal antibodies may be obtained from hybridomas
prepared from murine splenic B cells obtained from mice immunized with an antigen of
interest, for instance in form of cells expressing the antigen on the surface, or a nucleic acid
encoding an antigen of interest. Monoclonal antibodies may also be obtained from

                                                 55
hybridomas derived from antibody-expressing cells of immunized humans or non-human
mammals such as rabbits, rats, dogs, primates, etc.
         The parent antibodies may be e.g. chimeric or humanized antibodies. In another
embodiment, the antibody is a human antibody. Human monoclonal antibodies may be
generated using transgenic or transchromosomal mice, e.g. HuMAb mice, carrying parts of
the human immune system rather than the mouse system. The HuMAb mouse contains a
human immunoglobulin gene minilocus that encodes unrearranged human heavy (p and y)
and  K light chain immunoglobulin sequences, together with targeted mutations that
inactivate the endogenous p and    K  chain loci (Lonberg, N. et al., Nature 368, 856 859
(1994)). Accordingly, the mice exhibit reduced expression of mouse IgM or       K and in
response to immunization, the introduced human heavy and light chain transgenes, undergo
class switching and somatic mutation to generate high affinity human IgG,K monoclonal
antibodies (Lonberg, N. et al. (1994), supra; reviewed in Lonberg, N. Handbook of
Experimental Pharmacology 113, 49 101 (1994) , Lonberg, N. and Huszar, D., Intern. Rev.
Immunol. Vol. 13 65 93 (1995) and Harding, F. and Lonberg, N. Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci 764
536 546 (1995)). The preparation of HuMAb mice is described in detail in Taylor, L. et al.,
Nucleic Acids Research 20, 6287 6295 (1992), Chen, J. et al., International Immunology 5,
647 656 (1993), Tuaillon et al., J. Immunol. 152, 2912 2920 (1994), Taylor, L. et al.,
International Immunology 6, 579 591 (1994), Fishwild, D. et al., Nature Biotechnology 14,
845 851 (1996). See also US 5,545,806, US 5,569,825, US 5,625,126, US 5,633,425, US
5,789,650, US 5,877,397, US 5,661,016, US 5,814,318, US 5,874,299, US 5,770,429, US
5,545,807, WO 98/24884, WO 94/25585, WO 93/1227, WO 92/22645, WO 92/03918 and
WO 01/09187. Splenocytes from these transgenic mice may be used to generate
hybridomas that secrete human monoclonal antibodies according to well known techniques.
         Further, human antibodies of the present invention or antibodies of the present
invention from other species may be identified through display-type technologies, including,
without limitation, phage display, retroviral display, ribosomal display, mammalian display,
yeast display and other techniques known in the art, and the resulting molecules may be
subjected to additional maturation, such as affinity maturation, as such techniques are well
known in the art. A particular strategy, described in Example 17, can be applied to any
antibody to prepare and obtain a variant of the invention using phage-display.
         The parent antibody is not limited to antibodies which have a natural, e.g. a human
Fc domain but it may also be an antibody having other mutations than those of the present
invention, such as e.g. mutations that affect glycosylation or enables the antibody to be a
bispecific antibody. By the term "natural antibody" is meant any antibody which does not
comprise any genetically introduced mutations. An antibody which comprises naturally
occurred modifications, e.g. different allotypes, is thus to be understood as a "natural
antibody" in the sense of the present invention, and can thereby be understood as a parent

                                               56
antibody. Such antibodies may serve as a template for the one or more mutations according
to the present invention, and thereby providing the variant antibodies of the invention. An
example of a parent antibody comprising other mutations than those of the present
invention is the bispecific antibody as described in W02011/131746 (Genmab), utilizing
reducing conditions to promote half-molecule exchange of two antibodies comprising IgG4
like CH3 regions, thus forming bispecific antibodies without concomitant formation of
aggregates. Other examples of parent antibodies include but are not limited to bispecific
antibodies such as heterodimeric bispecifics: Triomabs (Fresenius); bispecific IgG1 and IgG2
(Rinat neurosciences Corporation); FcAAdp (Regeneron); Knobs-into-holes (Genentech);
Electrostatic steering (Amgen, Chugai, Oncomed); SEEDbodies (Merck); Azymetric scaffold
(Zymeworks); mAb-Fv (Xencor); and LUZ-Y (Genentch). Other exemplary parent antibody
formats include, without limitation, a wild-type antibody, a full-length antibody or Fc
containing antibody fragment, a human antibody, or any combination thereof.
        The parent antibody may bind any target, examples of such targets or antigens the
invention may be, and is not limited to, directed against are; 5T4; ADAM-10; ADAM-12;
ADAM17; AFP; AXL; ANGPT2 anthrax antigen; BSG; CAIX; CAXII; CA 72-4; carcinoma
associated antigen CTAA16.88; CCL11; CCL2; CCR4; CCR5; CCR6; CD2; CD3E; CD4; CD5;
CD6; CD15; CD18; CD19; CD20; CD22; CD24; CD25; CD29; CD30; CD32B; CD33; CD37;
CD38; CD40; CD40LG; CD44; CD47; CD52; CD56; CD66E; CD72; CD74; CD79a; CD79b;
CD80; CD86; CD98; CD137; CD147; CD138; CD168; CD200; CD248; CD254; CD257;
CDH3; CEA; CEACAM5; CEACAM6; CEACAM8; Claudin4; CS-1; CSF2RA; CSPG-4; CTLA4;
Cripto; DLL4; ED-B; EFNA2; EGFR; Endothelin B receptor; ENPP3; EPCAM; ERBB2; ERBB3;
FAP alpha; Fc gamma RI; FCER2; FGFR3; fibrin II beta chain; FLT1; FOLH1; FOLR1; FRP-1;
GD3 ganglioside; GDF2; GLP1R; Glypican-3; GPNMB; HBV (hepatitis B virus); HCMV
(human cytomegalovirus); heat shock protein 90 homolog [Candida albicans]; herpes
simplex virus gD glycoprotein; HGF; HIV-1; HIV-1 IIIB gp120 V3 loop; HLA-DRB (HLA-DR
beta); human respiratory syncytial virus, glycoprotein F; ICAM1; IFNA1; IFNA1; IFNB1
bispecific; IgE Fc; IGF1R; IGHE connecting region; IL12B; IL13; IL15; IL17A; IL1A; IL1B;
IL2RA; IL4; IL5; IL5RA; IL6; IL6R; IL9; interleukin-2 receptor beta subunit; ITGA2; ITGA2B
ITGB3; ITGA4 ITGB7; ITGA5; ITGAL; ITGAVITGB3; ITGB2; KDR; L1CAM; Lewis-y; lipid A,
domain of lipopolyaccharide LPS; LTA; MET; MMP14; MMp15; MST1R; MSTN; MUC1; MUC4;
MUC16; MUC5AC; NCA-90 granulocyte cell antigen; Nectin 4; NGF; NRP; NY-ESO-1; OX40L;
PLAC-1; PLGF; PDGFRA; PD1; PDL1; PSCA; phosphatidylserine; PTK-7; Pseudomonas
aeruginosa serotype IATS 011; RSV (human respiratory syncytial virus, glycoprotein F);
ROR1; RTN4; SELL; SELP; STEAP1; Shiga-like toxin II B subunit [Escherichia coli]; SLAM7;
SLC44A4; SOST; Staphylococcus epidermidis lipoteichoic acid; T cell receptor alpha-beta;
TF; TGFB1; TGFB2; TMEFF2; TNC; TNF; TNFRSF10A; TNFRSF10B; TNFRSF12A; TNFSF13;
TNFSF14; TNFSF2; TNFSF7; TRAILR2; TROP2; TYRP1; VAP-1; and Vimentin.

                                                 57
        The parent antibody may be any human antibody of any isotype, e.g. IgG1, IgG2,
IgG3, IgG4, IgAl, IgA2, IgE, and IgD, optionally a human full-length antibody, such as a
human full-length IgG1 antibody. The parent antibody may comprise a sequence according
to any of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
        Monoclonal antibodies, such as the parent and/or variants, for use in the present
invention, may be produced, e.g., by the hybridoma method first described by Kohler et al.,
Nature 256, 495 (1975), or may be produced by recombinant DNA methods. Monoclonal
antibodies may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques
described in, for example, Clackson et al., Nature 352, 624-628 (1991) and Marks et al., J.
Mol. Biol. 222, 581-597 (1991). Monoclonal antibodies may be obtained from any suitable
source. Thus, for example, monoclonal antibodies may be obtained from hybridomas
prepared from murine splenic B cells obtained from mice immunized with an antigen of
interest, for instance in form of cells expressing the antigen on the surface, or a nucleic acid
encoding an antigen of interest. Monoclonal antibodies may also be obtained from
hybridomas derived from antibody-expressing cells of immunized humans or non-human
mammals such as rats, dogs, primates, etc.
        In one embodiment, the antibody is a human antibody. Human monoclonal
antibodies directed against any antigen may be generated using transgenic or
transchromosomal mice carrying parts of the human immune system rather than the mouse
system. Such transgenic and transchromosomic mice include mice referred to herein as
HuMAb* mice and KM mice, respectively, and are collectively referred to herein as
"transgenic mice".
        The HuMAb* mouse contains a human immunoglobulin gene miniloci that encodes
unrearranged human heavy (p and y) and        K light chain immunoglobulin sequences, together
with targeted mutations that inactivate the endogenous p and     K chain loci (Lonberg, N. et
al., Nature 368, 856-859 (1994)). Accordingly, the mice exhibit reduced expression of
mouse IgM or     K and in response to immunization, the introduced human heavy and light
chain transgenes, undergo class switching and somatic mutation to generate high affinity
human IgG,K monoclonal antibodies (Lonberg, N. et al. (1994), supra; reviewed in Lonberg,
N. Handbook of Experimental Pharmacology 113, 49-101 (1994) , Lonberg, N. and Huszar,
D., Intern. Rev. Immunol. Vol. 13 65-93 (1995) and Harding, F. and Lonberg, N. Ann. N.Y.
Acad. Sci 764 536-546 (1995)). The preparation of HuMAb* mice is described in detail in
Taylor, L. et al., Nucleic Acids Research 20, 6287-6295 (1992), Chen, J. et al., International
Immunology 5, 647-656 (1993), Tuaillon et al., J. Immunol. 152, 2912-2920 (1994),
Taylor, L. et al., International Immunology 6, 579-591 (1994), Fishwild, D. et al., Nature
Biotechnology 14, 845-851 (1996). See also US 5,545,806, US 5,569,825, US 5,625,126,
US 5,633,425, US 5,789,650, US 5,877,397, US 5,661,016, US 5,814,318, US 5,874,299,

                                               58
US 5,770,429, US 5,545,807, WO 98/24884, WO 94/25585, WO 93/1227, WO 92/22645,
WO 92/03918 and WO 01/09187.
        The HCo7, HCo12, HCo17 and HCo20 mice have a JKD disruption in their
endogenous light chain (kappa) genes (as described in Chen et al., EMBO J. 12, 821-830
(1993)), a CMD disruption in their endogenous heavy chain genes (as described in Example
1 of WO 01/14424), and a KCo5 human kappa light chain transgene (as described in
Fishwild et al., Nature Biotechnology 14, 845-851 (1996)). Additionally, the Hco7 mice have
a HCo7 human heavy chain transgene (as described in US 5,770,429), the HCo12 mice
have a HCo12 human heavy chain transgene (as described in Example 2 of WO 01/14424),
the HCo17 mice have a HCo17 human heavy chain transgene (as described in Example 2 of
WO 01/09187) and the HCo20 mice have a HCo20 human heavy chain transgene. The
resulting mice express human immunoglobulin heavy and kappa light chain transgenes in a
background homozygous for disruption of the endogenous mouse heavy and kappa light
chain loci.
        In the KM mouse strain, the endogenous mouse kappa light chain gene has been
homozygously disrupted as described in Chen et al., EMBO J. 12, 811-820 (1993) and the
endogenous mouse heavy chain gene has been homozygously disrupted as described in
Example 1 of WO 01/09187. This mouse strain carries a human kappa light chain
transgene, KCo5, as described in Fishwild et al., Nature Biotechnology 14, 845-851 (1996).
This mouse strain also carries a human heavy chain transchromosome composed of
chromosome 14 fragment hCF (SC20) as described in WO 02/43478. HCo12-Balb/C mice
can be generated by crossing HCo12 to KCo5[J/K](Balb) as described in WO/2009/097006.
Splenocytes from these transgenic mice may be used to generate hybridomas that secrete
human monoclonal antibodies according to well known techniques.
        Further, any antigen-binding regions may be obtained from human antibodies or
antibodies from other species identified through display-type technologies, including,
without limitation, phage display, retroviral display, ribosomal display, and other
techniques, using techniques well known in the art and the resulting molecules may be
subjected to additional maturation, such as affinity maturation, as such techniques are well
known in the art (see for instance Hoogenboom et al., J. Mol. Biol. 227, 381 (1991) (phage
display), Vaughan et al., Nature Biotech 14, 309 (1996) (phage display), Hanes and
Plucthau, PNAS USA 94, 4937-4942 (1997) (ribosomal display), Parmley and Smith, Gene
73, 305-318 (1988) (phage display), Scott TIBS 17, 241-245 (1992), Cwirla et al., PNAS
USA 87, 6378-6382 (1990), Russel et al., Nucl. Acids Research 21, 1081-1085 (1993),
Hogenboom et al., Immunol. Reviews 130, 43-68 (1992), Chiswell and McCafferty TIBTECH
10, 80-84 (1992), and US 5,733,743). If display technologies are utilized to produce
antibodies that are not human, such antibodies may be humanized.

                                                     59
        In another aspect, the invention relates to a parent polypeptide comprising a Fc
domain and a binding region. It is understood in the context of the present invention all
embodiments relating to parent antibody similarly applies to a "parent polypeptide".
        A mutation according to the present invention may be, but is not limited to, a
deletion, insertion or substitution of one or more amino acids. Such a substitution of amino
acids may be with any naturally occurring or non-naturally amino acid.
"Sincile-mutants"
        It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.
        Antibody or polypetide variants according to the "single-mutant" aspect of the
present invention comprise a mutation, typically an amino acid substitution, in at least one
amino acid residue shown in Table 1, which lists each amino acid residue, numbered
according to the EU index in a human IgG1 antibody, along with the amino acid in the
corresponding position in an IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4 parent antibody and "Exemplary" and
"Preferred" amino acid substitutions. The IgG2 segment corresponding to residues P247 to
K447, the IgG3 Fc-segment corresponding to residues P247 to K447 and the IgG4 segment
corresponding to residues P247 to K447 in IgG1 are shown in Figure 2.
Table 1: Exemplary mutation sites and amino acid substitutions for the "single-mutant" aspect
Amino acid     Amino       Amino         Amino          Exemplary substitutions         Preferred
(IgGI)         acid        acid          acid                                           substitutions
               (IgG2)      (IgG3)        (IgG4)
P247           P247        P247          P247           ACDFGHIKLMNRSTVW                G
1253           1253        1253          1253           ADKLMNRSV, alternatively        LV, alternatively QN
                                                        EQT
S254           S254        S254          S254           EFGHIKLPTVW                     L
H310           H310        H310          H310           AGFKLPRTVW, alternatively       PW, alternatively Q
                                                        NQY
Q311           Q311        Q311          Q311           ACEGHFIKLNPRSTWY                LW, alternatively ER
E345           E345        E345          E345           ACDGHFIKLMNPQRSTVWY             ADGHFIKLMNPQRSTVWY
D356/E356      E356        E356          E356           GILRTV                          R
T359           T359        T359          T359           GNPR                            R
E382           E382        E382          E382           FKLMPVW, alternatively          LV, alternatively DQKR
                                                        DHNQSTY
G385           G385        G385          G385           ADHILNPQRSTV, alternatively     NR, alternatively DEKR
                                                        EKWY
Q386           Q386        Q386          Q386           ACDEGHFIKLNPRSTVWY              K
E430           E430        E430          E430           ACDFGHIKLMNPQRSTVWY             ADGHFIKLMNPQRSTVWY
H433           H433        H433          H433           R                               R
N434           N434        N434          N434           DEGKRSVW, alternatively         W, alternatively QHKR
                                                        HQTY
Y436           Y436        F436          Y436           IKLRSTVW, alternatively         IV, alternatively NQST
                                                        AEFHMNQ
Q438           Q438        Q438          Q438           CEIKLSTVWY, alternatively       CL, alternatively NST
                                                        AGHNQR
K439           K439        K439          K439           ADEHLPRTY, alternatively QW     DEHR, alternatively Q
S440           S440        S440          S440           ACDEGHFIKLMNPQRTVWY             WY, alternatively DEQ

                                               60
K447          K447       K447         K447       DENQ, deletion            DENQ, deletion
        As seen in Table 1, the amino acid substitutions which resulted in an increase of cell
lysis of Wien133 cells in Example 19 are included as "Preferred substitutions".
        In one aspect the present invention relates to a variant of a parent polypeptide
comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, wherein the variant
comprises a mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding
to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447
in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is
S440Y or S440W.
        In one embodiment the variant polypeptide may be a variant antibody.
        Thus in another aspect, the invention relates to a variant of a parent antibody
comprising an antigen-binding region and Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin, wherein the
variant comprises a mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from those
corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382,
Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the
mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W. Alternatively, the amino acid residue is selected from
those corresponding to H310, G385, H433, N434, Q438, and K439 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain.
        Each of the amino acid residues corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247,
1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain may be grouped according to the following as described above:
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain.
        A mutation according to the present invention may be, but is not limited to, a
deletion, insertion or substitution of one or more amino acids. Such a substitution of amino
acids may be with any naturally occurring or non-naturally amino acid. Thus, in one
embodiment, the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is a deletion. In another
embodiment, the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is an insertion. In another
embodiment, the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is a substitution.
        In one embodiment, the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is selected from
those corresponding to E345X, E430X, S440W/Y, Q386K, P247G, 1253V, S254L, Q311L/W,

                                               61
D/E356R, E382V, Y4361, and K447D/E/deletion in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, wherein X is any amino acid, such as a natural occurring amino acid.
        In one specific embodiment, the antibody variant comprises a mutation in at least
one amino acid residue selected from E345, E430, S440, and Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In a further embodiment, the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is an
amino acid substitution selected from those corresponding to E345X, E430X, S440W/Y,
Q386K, in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, wherein X is any amino acid, such as
a natural occurring amino acid.
        In a preferred embodiment, the mutation in at least one amino acid residue is an
amino acid substitution selected from those corresponding to
E345R,Q,N,K,A,C,D,F,G,H,I,L,M,P,S,T,V,W,Y;E430T,S,G,A,C,D,F,H,I,L,K,M,N,P,Q,R,V,W,Y;
S440W,Y, and Q386K in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In a further preferred embodiment, the mutation in at least one amino acid residue
is an amino acid substitution selected from those corresponding to E345R/Q/N/K,
E430T/S/G, S440Y/W, and Q386K in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        Alternatively, the at least one amino acid residue is selected from E382 and H433.
Particular alternatively amino acid substitutions include E345Y,D,W; and E430F,H.
Alternatively, E382D,Q,K,R; and H433R.
        In one specific embodiment, the amino acid substitution is E345R. In an alternative
embodiment, the mutation is selected from the group consisting of 1253 to E, N, Q, S or T;
H310 to N, Q, W or Y; Q311 to E or R; E382 to D, H, K, R, N, Q, S, T, W or Y; G385 to E, H,
K, N, Q, R, S, T, W or Y; H433 to R; N434 to D, E, H, K, Q, R, S, T, W or Y; Y436 to A, E, F,
H, I, K, L, M, N, Q, R, S, T or V; Q438 to A, E, G, H, K, N, Q, R, S, T, W or Y; K439 to D, H,
Q, R, W or Y; and S440 to D, E, H, F, N, Q, W or Y.
        In another alternative embodiment, the mutation is selected from the group
consisting of 1253 to N or Q; H310 to Q; Q311 to E or R; E382 to D, Q, K, or R; G385 to D,
E, K or R; H433 to R; N434 to H, K, Q or R; Y436 to N, Q, S or T; Q438 to N, S or T; K439
to Q; and S440 to D, E or Q.
        In another alternative embodiment, the mutation is selected from the group
consisting of E382 to D, Q, K, or R; and H433 to R.
        In one embodiment, the variant comprises a E382R mutation.
        In one embodiment, the variant comprises a H433R mutation.
        As shown in the Examples, variants of CD38 antibody HuMab-005 and -003 and/or
CD20 antibody HuMab-7D8 and -11B8 and rituximab and/or EGFR antibody HuMab-2F8
comprising one of these amino acid substitutions had higher Clq-binding, complement
activation and/or CDC than wild-type HuMab 005 and 7D8, respectively.

                                                62
        It is to be understood that the variant may also only comprise one mutation of the
"Exemplary substitutions" listed in Table 1. The variant may also comprise more than one
mutation, such as two, three, four, five or six of any the mutations listed in Table 1.
        A preferred embodiment of the present invention, thus, provides a variant
comprising one mutation in an amino acid residue selected from those listed in the aspect
above. Particular amino acid mutations may be an amino acid substitution corresponding to
any of the group consisting of P247G, 1253V, S254L, Q311L, Q311W, E345A, E345C,
E345D, E345F, E345G, E345H, E3451, E345K, E345L, E345M, E345N, E345P, E345Q,
E345R, E345S, E345T, E345V, E345W, E345Y, D/E356G, D/E356R, T359R, E382L, E382V,
Q386K, E430A, E430C, E430D, E430F, E430G, E430H, E430I, E430K, E430L, E430M,
E430N, E430P, E430Q, E430R, E430S, E430T, E430V, E430W, E430Y, Y4361, S440Y and
S440W. These have an increased cell lysis (>39% on Wien133 cells) as shown in Example
19, Table 17.
        In an alternative embodiment, the variant comprises a mutation in one amino acid
residue selected from those corresponding to E382R, H433R, H435R, and H435A.
        Besides the indicated mutations, the variant may have any of the features as
described for the parent antibody. In particular, it may be a human antibody. The variant
may further be, besides the mutations, of any IgG1 subtype.
        When bound to its antigen on the surface of an antigen-expressing cell, on a cell
membrane, on a virion, or on another particle, or the antigen is associated with a virion,
optionally wherein the antigen is comprised in the protein coat or a lipid envelope of the
virion, such an antibody variant can have compared to the parent antibody at least one of
an increased (i) Clq-binding, (ii) complement activation mediated by the antibody, (iii) CDC
mediated by the antibody, (iv) oligomer formation, (v) oligomer stability, or a combination
of any of (i) to (v). In one embodiment of (iv) or (v), the oligomer is a hexamer. In one
embodiment, the variant also or alternatively has a retained or improved other effector
function, such as Clq-binding, complement activation, complement dependent cytotoxicity
(CDC), antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxity (ADCC), FcRn-binding, Fc-receptor
binding including Fc-gamma receptor-binding, Protein A-binding, Protein G-binding,
antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP), complement-dependent cellular
cytotoxicity (CDCC), complement-enhanced cytotoxicity, opsonisation, Fc-containing
polypeptide internalization, target downmodulation, ADC uptake, induction of apoptosis, cell
death, cell cycle arrest, and any combination thereof.
        Without being limited to any specific theory, the effect caused by substituting amino
acids at the indicated positions, with the amino acid residues in Table 1 may, for example,
cause the effect itself, be involved in contacting the Fc domain of another molecule directly,
or may be mutated to interact with another Fc domain directly or indirectly affect the
intermolecular Fc:Fc interaction. Thus, substitutions are believed to, without being bound by

                                               63
theory, directly or indirectly enhance the binding strength between the antibody molecules
in the oligomeric form, enhancing the stability of the oligomer structure, such as a
hexameric, pentameric, tetrameric, trimeric, or dimeric structure. For example, the amino
acid substitution can be one that promotes or strengthens the formation of new
intermolecular Fc:Fc bonds, such as, but not limited to, Van der Waals interactions,
hydrogen bonds, charge-charge interactions, or aromatic stacking interactions, or one that
promotes increased entropy upon Fc:Fc interaction by release of water molecules. With
reference to Table 1, "Exemplary substitutions" may be selected based on size and
physicochemical properties engaging in or promoting intermolecular Fc:Fc interactions or
intramolecular interactions (allosteric mutations). "Preferred substitutions" may be selected
based on size and and physicochemical properties optimal for engaging in or stimulating
intermolecular Fc:Fc interactions or intramolecular interactions (allosteric mutations).
        "Exemplary substitutions" of amino acids listed in Table 1, include exchanging an E
residue for an R residue, and exchanging an H residue for an R residue. Each "Exemplary
substitution" of amino acids in each specific amino acid residue listed in Table 1 is a
separate and specific non-limiting embodiment according to the invention. Further, each
"Preferred substitution" in each specific amino acid residue listed in Table 1 is a separate
and specific non-limiting embodiment according to the invention.
        In another aspect the present invention relates to a variant of a parent polypeptide
comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, wherein the variant
comprises a mutation in at least two amino acid residues selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain,
        wherein the at least two amino acid mutations are different.
        In one embodiment the parent polypeptide and thereby also the variant thereof,
may be an antibody.
        Thus the present invention also relates to a variant of a parent antibody comprising
an antigen-binding region and a Fc-domain, wherein the variant comprises a mutation in at
least two amino acid residues selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,

                                               64
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain,
        wherein the at least two amino acid mutations are different.
        Thus, a variant of the embodiment above may comprise a mutation in at least two,
such as two, three, four, five, or more amino acids in Table 1.
        In any embodiments where such a mutation in at least two amino acids is comprised
in the variant, it may be present in each of the heavy chains of the variant, or one of the
two may be comprised in one of the heavy chains and the other may be comprised in the
other heavy chain, respectively, or vice versa.
        In one embodiment, the variant comprises a mutation in at least two amino acid
residues selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254,
Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain,
with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W. Alternatively, the variant
further comprises a mutation in at least one residue selected from the group consisting of
H310, G385, H433, N434, Q438, and K439.
        In one embodiment, the variant comprises a mutation in at least two amino acid
residues selected from those corresponding to E345X, E430X, S440W/Y, Q386K, P247G,
1253V, S254L, Q311L/W, D/E356R, E382V, and Y436I in the Fc region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, wherein X is any amino acid, such as a natural occurring amino acid.
        For example, the antibody variant may comprise a mutation in at least one of E345,
E430, S440, and Q386, alternatively E382 and H433, such as two or all of E345, E430,
S440, and Q386, alternatively E382 and H433, optionally further comprising a mutation in
one or more other amino acids listed in Table 1. Thus, in a further embodiment, the variant
comprises a mutation in at least two amino acid residues selected from the group of
corresponding to those of E345X, E430X, S440W/Y, and Q386K in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain, wherein X is any amino acid, such as a natural occurring amino acid.
        Exemplary combinations of a mutation in at least two amino acid residues are
E345X/E430X, E345X/S440Y or W, E345X/Q386K, E430X/S440Y or W, and E430X/Q386K.
        In one embodiment, the mutation in at least two amino acid residues is a deletion,
insertion or substitution. Such a substitution of amino acids may be with any naturally
occurring or artificially amino acids.
        In a particular embodiment, the mutation in at least two amino acid residues may be
an amino acid substitution corresponding to any of the group consisting of P247G, I253V,
S254L, Q311L, Q311W, E345A, E345C, E345D, E345F, E345G, E345H, E345I, E345K,
E345L, E345M, E345N, E345P, E345Q, E345R, E345S, E345T, E345V, E345W, E345Y,

                                               65
D/E356G, D/E356R, T359R, E382L, E382V, Q386K, E430A, E430C, E430D, E430F, E430G,
E430H, E430I, E430K E430L, E430M, E430N, E430P, E430Q, E430R, E430S, E430T, E430V,
E430W, E430Y, Y4361, S440Y and S440W.
         In a preferred embodiment, the variant comprises a mutation in at least two amino
acid residues are amino acid substitutions selected from those corresponding to
E345R,Q,N,K,A,C,D,F,G,H,I,L,M,P,S,T,V,W,Y;E430T,S,G,A,C,D,F,H,I,L,K,M,N,P,Q,R,V,W,Y;
S440W,Y; and Q386K, in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        Alternatively the further mutation is selected from those corresponding to
1253E,N,Q,S,T; H310N,Q,W,Y; Q311E,R; E382D,H,K,R,N,Q,S,T,W,Y;
G385E,H,K,N,Q,R,S,T,W,Y; H433R; N434D,E,H,K,Q,R,S,T,W,Y;
Y436,A,E,F,H,I,K,L,M,N,Q,R,S,T,V;Q438A,E,G,H,K,N,Q,R,S,T,W,Y; K439D,H,Q,R,W,Y; and
S440D,E,H,F,N,Q
         In a preferred embodiment, the mutation in at least two amino acid residues are is
amino acid substitutions selected from those corresponding to E345R/Q/N/K, E430T/S/G,
S440Y/W, and Q386K in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain. Alternatively the
further mutation is selected from those corresponding to 1253N,Q; H310Q; Q311E,R;
E382D,Q,K,R; G385D,E,K,R; H433R; N434H,K,Q,R; Y436N,Q,S,T; Q438N,S,T; K439Q; and
S440D,E,Q.
         Exemplary specific combinations of a mutation in at least two amino acid residues
are E345R/E430T, E345R/S440Y, E345R/S440W, E345R/Q386K, E345R/E430G,
E345Q/E430T, E345Q/S440Y, E345Q/S440W, E430T/S440Y, E430T/S440W, E430T/Q386K,
and S440Y/Q386K.
         In one specific embodiment, the mutation is not in an amino acid residue
corresponding to 1253, N434, or Q311. In one additional or alternative embodiment, the
mutation is not in H433, or the amino acid substitution is not H433A.
         In one embodiment, the present invention relates to a variant comprising a mutation
in at least three amino acid residues selected from the group of
         (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
         (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
         (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
         (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that it does not comprise a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain, and
         (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain.
        wherein the at least three amino acid mutations are different.

                                               66
         In one particular embodiment, the variant comprises a mutation in the amino acid
residues, which are amino acid substitutions corresponding to E345R, Q396K and E430G,
which may be in either one or both the heavy chains of the variant.
         The mutation in the at least three amino acid residues may be individually selected
from the substitutions listed in Table 1. Non-limiting examples of variants comprising at
least three mutations are; E345R/E430G/S440Y, E345R/E430G/S440W,
E345K/E430G/S440Y, E345K/E430G/S440W, E345Q/E430G/S440Y, E345Q/E430G/S440W,
E345N/E430G/S440Y, E345N/E430G/S440W, E345R/E430T/S440Y, E345R/E430T/S440W,
E345K/E430T/S440Y, E345K/E430T/S440W, E345Q/E430T/S440Y, E345Q/E430T/S440W,
E345N/E430T/S440Y, E345N/E430T/S440W, E345R/E430S/S440Y, E345R/E430S/S440W,
E345K/E430S/S440Y, E345K/E430S/S440W, E345Q/E430S/S440Y, E345Q/E430S/S440W,
E345N/E430S/S440Y, E345N/E430S/S440W, E345R/E430F/S440Y, E345R/E430F/S440W,
E345K/E430F/S440Y, E345K/E430F/S440W, E345Q/E430F/S440Y, E345Q/E430F/S440W,
E345N/E430F/S440Y, and E345N/E430F/S440W.
         Apart from mutations in one or more amino acids in Tables 1 or 2A and B, the IgG
heavy chain may comprise additional mutations known in the art, e.g., mutations that
further improve effector functions. Such additional mutations include known mutations
enhancing CDC, Fc-gamma receptor binding or FcRn-binding and/or improving Fc-gamma
receptor-mediated effector functions.
         In one embodiment, a variant according to the invention further comprises a known
CDC enhancing modification e.g., an exchange of segments between IgG isotypes to
generate chimeric IgG molecules (Natsume et al., 2008 Cancer Res 68(10), 3863-72); one
or more amino acid substitutions in the hinge region (Dall'Acqua et al., 2006 J Immunol
177, 1129-1138), and/or one or more amino acid substitutions in or near the Clq-binding
site in the CH2 domain, centered around residues D270, K322, P329, and P331 (Idusogie et
al., 2001 J Immunol 166, 2571-2575; Michaelsen et al., 2009 Scand J Immunol 70, 553
564 and WO 99/51642). For example, in one embodiment, a variant according to the
invention further comprises a combination of any of the amino acid substitutions S267E,
H268F, S324T, S239D, G236A and 1332E, providing enhanced effector function via CDC or
ADCC (Moore et al., 2010 mAbs 2(2), 181-189)). Other Fc mutations affecting binding to
Fc-receptors (described in WO 2006/105062, WO 00/42072, U.S. Patent 6,737,056 and
U.S. Patent 7,083,784) or physical properties of the antibodies (described in WO
2007/005612 Al) can also be used in the variants of the invention.
         In one embodiment, a variant according to the invention further comprises
modifications enhancing Fc-gamma receptor binding and/or Fc-gamma receptor-mediated
effector function. Such modifications include (i) reducing the amount of fucose in the CH2
attached glycosylation (glyco-engineering) (Umana P, et al., Nat Biotechnol 1999; 17: 176
80; Niwa R, et al., Clin Cancer Res 2004; 10: 6248-55.)), and (ii) site-directed

                                                67
mutagenesis of amino acids in the hinge or CH2 regions of antibodies (protein-engineering)
(Lazar GA, et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2006; 103: 4005-10).
         In one embodiment, a variant according to the invention is further engineered in the
FcRn binding site, e.g., to extend the half-life (t1/2) of IgG antibodies. Such modifications
include (i) N434A and T307A/E380A/N434A mutations (Petcova et al. Int Immunol. 2006
Dec;18(12):1759); (ii) a substitution of one or more of Pro238, Thr256, Thr307,Gln3ll,
Asp312, Glu380, Glu382, and Asn434 into an alanine residue improving FcRn
binding (Shields RL, et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2001;276:6591); and (iii) an amino acid
substitution or combination of amino acid substitutions selected from M252Y/S254T/T256E,
M252W, M252Y, M252Y/T256Q, M252F/T256D, V308T/L309P/Q311S,
G385D/Q386P/N389S, G385R/Q386T/P387R/N389P, H433K/N434F/Y436H, N434F/Y436H,
H433R/N434Y/Y436H, M252Y/S254T/T256E-H433K/N434F/Y436H or M252Y/S254T/T256E
G385R/Q386T/P387R/N389P in IgG1, increasing the affinity for FcRn (Dall'Acqua et al.,
supra).
"Double-mutant"
         It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.
         As described above and further below, the present invention also relates to a
"double-mutant" aspect, wherein two mutations individually each decrease an effector
function but together restores the effector function to the level of the parent antibody.
When used together the specificity of the variant is increased. Antibody variants according
to the "double-mutant" aspect comprise two mutations, typically amino acid substitutions,
in the specific amino acid residue interaction pair K439 and S440.
         Thus in one aspect the present invention relates to a variant of a parent polypeptide
comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, wherein the variant
comprises a mutation
(i) in at least one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to K439 and S440
in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is
not S440Y or S440W, such as wherein the mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in
the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the position
corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R;
(ii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; or
(iii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.

                                                      68
         In one embodiment the parent polypeptide, and thereby also the variant thereof,
may be an antibody.
         Thus, in one aspect, the present invention relates to a variant of a parent antibody
comprising an antigen-binding region and Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin, wherein the
variant comprises a mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from those
corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W, such as wherein the mutation in
the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E,
and/or the mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1
heavy chain is S440K/H/R. Table 2A and B shows "Exemplary" and "Preferred substitutions"
for the "double-mutant" (Table A) and "mixed-mutant" (Table 2B) aspects.
Table 2A: Exemplary mutation sites and amino acid substitutions for "double-mutant" aspects
Amino acid pair (IgG1,2,3,4)     Exemplary substitutions                             Preferred substitutions
K439/S440                        K439ED, alternatively R/S440KR, alternatively ED    K439E/S440K
K447/448/449                     K447ED/448KRH/449P                                  K447E/448K/449P
K447/448                         K447KRH/448ED                                       K447K/448E
Table 2B: Exemplary mutation sites and amino acid substitutions for "mixed-mutants" aspect (Ab1 + Ab2)
Amino acid pair (IgGI)               Exemplary substitutions                       Preferred substitutions
K439 + S440                          K439DER + S440DEKR                            K439E + S440K
K447 + K447/448                      K447DE + K447KRH/448P                         K447E + K447/448P
K447 + K447/448/449                  K447DE + K447KRH/448KRH/449P                  K447E + K447/448K/449P
         In one embodiment the of the variant, wherein the mutation is on position(s) other
than S440 and K447, and wherein the variant further comprises a mutation
(i) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440W or
S440Y;
(ii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; or
(iii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
         Accordingly, the invention provides a variant of an antibody comprising a first
mutation in a residue in the CH2 and/or CH3 region of a human IgG1 heavy chain
corresponding to K439, and a second mutation in a residue in the CH2 and/or CH3 region of
a human IgG1 heavy chain corresponding to S440.
         It is contemplated by the present invention that the variant may also comprise only
one of the amino acid residue substitutions, such as either K439E or S440K, such as the
variant comprises a mutation in K439, optionally with no mutation in S440.

                                               69
        In one embodiment, the invention relates to the variant, wherein the mutation in
K439 is an amino acid substitution into an amino acid selected from E and D, such as
K439E.
        In another embodiment, the variant comprises a mutation in S440, optionally with
no mutation in K439.
        In one embodiment, the invention relates to the variant, wherein the mutation in
S440 is an amino acid substitution into an amino acid selected from K, R and H, such as
S440K.
        In one embodiment, the variant comprises mutations in both K439 and S440.
        In another embodiment, the mutation in K439 is selected from K439 to D, E or R,
and the mutation in S440 is selected from S440 to D, E, K, H and R.
        In another embodiment, the mutation in K439 is selected from K439D and K439E,
and the mutation in S440 is selected from S440K, S440R, and S440H.
        In another embodiment, the variant comprises K439E and S440K mutations.
        As described in the Examples 4-6, antibody variants comprising only one of the
K439E and S440K mutations had a drastically increased     KD  for C1q, reflecting a decreased
complement activation and/or CDC capability. Surprisingly, it was found that antibody
variants of HuMAb 7D8 or 005 comprising both mutations had a restored or increased C1q
binding or CDC. Without being bound by any specific theory, the underlying mechanism
could perhaps be explained by the respective mutations sterically compensating for each
other, as illustrated in Figures 4 and 5.
        Any "double-mutant" as described herein may also be used in combination with a
mutation which by itself is capable of increasing an effector function. Thus, the "double
mutant" aspect may be combined with the "single-mutant" aspect, e.g. the variant may
further comprise a mutation in any of the amino acid positions listed in Table 1 or any other
embodiments described for the "single-mutant" aspect above. Thus, in one embodiment,
the mutation is on position(s) other than S440, and wherein the variant further comprises a
mutation in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440W or
S440Y.
        In one aspect the present invention relates to a variant of a parent polypeptide
comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, wherein the variant
comprises a mutation in at least one amino acid residues selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,

                                               70
         (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that it does not comprise a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain, and
         (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
         wherein the variant comprises a further mutation
(i) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440W or
S440Y;
(ii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; or
(iii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
         In one embodiment the parent polypeptide, and thereby the variant thereof, may be
an antibody.
         Thus in one aspect, the present invention relates to a variant of a parent antibody
comprising an antigen-binding region and a Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin, wherein the
variant comprises a mutation in at least one amino acid residues selected from the group of
         (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
         (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
         (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
         (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that it does not comprise a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain, and
         (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
         wherein the variant comprises a further mutation
(i) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440W or
S440Y,
(ii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; or
(iii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
         In one embodiment, the variant comprises a mutation in at least an amino acid
residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254,
Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain,
with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W, and the variant comprises a

                                              71
further mutation in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not
S440W or S440Y.
        In a further embodiment, the variant comprises a mutation in at least one amino
acid residue is an amino acid substitution selected from those corresponding to E345X,
E430X, S440W/Y, Q386K, in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, wherein X is any
amino acid, such as a natural occurring amino acid, and the variant comprises a further
mutation in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440W or
S440Y.
        In one embodiment, the variant comprises an amino acid mutation in both of the
positions corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc-region of an IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
        In a further embodiment, the mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the
Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the position
corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
        In a further embodiment, the first mutation is in an amino acid residues selected
from those corresponding to E345, E430, Q386, and S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W; and the second
and third mutation is an amino acid substitution in position K439E or S440K.
        In one embodiment, the first mutation is a deletion, insertion or substitution. Such a
substitution may be any naturally occurring or non-naturally amino acid.
        In a further embodiment, the first mutation is selected from the group of
E345R,Q,N,K,A,F,G,H,I,L,M,P,S,T,V,W,Y,C,D;E430T,S,G,A,F,H,L,P,R,V,C,D,I,K,M,N,Q,W,Y;
and S440W,Y,D; and the second and third mutation is an amino acid substitution in position
K439E or S440K.
        In a preferred embodiment, the one mutation is selected from the group of
E345R,Q,N,K,Y; E430T,S,G,F,H; S440W,Y; and Q386K.
        Another example, in one embodiment of the present invention, the variant comprises
E345R, K439E and S440K mutations, thus providing for both increased and more specific
mediation of a CDC-response.
        In one embodiment, the variant comprises a mutation in at least two amino acid
residues selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254,
Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain,
with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W, and the variant comprises a
further mutation in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not
S440W or S440Y.

                                                 72
        In a further embodiment, the variant comprises a mutation in at least two amino
acid residues is an amino acid substitution selected from those corresponding to E345X,
E430X, S440W/Y, Q386K, in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, wherein X is any
amino acid, such as a natural occurring amino acid, and the variant comprises a further
mutation in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440W or
S440Y.
        In one embodiment, the variant comprises an amino acid mutation in both of the
positions corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc-region of an IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
        In a further embodiment, the mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the
Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the position
corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
        In a further embodiment, the first and second mutation is in an amino acid residues
selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, Q386, and S440 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W;
and the third and fourth mutation is an amino acid substitution in position K439E or S440K.
        In another embodiment, the variant comprising a mutation in both positions K439
and S440 as described herein has an increase in an Fc-mediated effector function selected
from   Clq-binding,    complement    activation,   complement   dependent    cytotoxicity (CDC),
antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxity (ADCC),          FcRn-binding,   Fc-receptor binding
including Fc-gamma       receptor-binding,   Protein A-binding,   Protein  G-binding,   antibody
dependent     cellular  phagocytosis   (ADCP),    complement-dependent      cellular cytotoxicity
(CDCC),     complement-enhanced      cytotoxicity ,   opsonisation,  Fc-containing    polypeptide
internalization, target downmodulation, ADC uptake, induction of apoptosis, cell death, cell
cycle arrest, and any combination thereof, as compared to parent antibody or an antibody
variant comprising a mutation in only one of K439 and S440.
        The invention also provides for the use of the K439E and S440K mutations in an
antibody to restore one or more of (i) Clq-binding avidity, (ii) complement activation
mediated by the antibody, (iii) CDC mediated by the antibody, (iv) oligomer formation, (v)
oligomer stability, or a combination of any of (i) to (v), as compared to parent antibody,
which may, e.g., be a wild-type antibody or an antibody variant comprising only one of the
K439E or S440K mutations. In one embodiment of (iv) or (v), the oligomer is a hexamer.
        In one embodiment, the variant is selected from a monospecific antibody, bispecific
antibody or multispecific antibody.
Mixed mutants

                                                73
        It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.
        As described above, the inventors of the present invention have also found that
there are mutations which by itself descreases an effector function but when used together
the effector function is restored, e.g. the mutations in positions K439 and S440 of in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain. This concept may also be used to ensure pairing of
two different antibodies, thus, by introducing K439 in one antibody and S440 in the other.
Thus, antibody variants according to the "mixed-mutant" aspect comprise a mutation, but
one that typically leads to a reduced or much reduced Fc:Fc interaction between identical
Fc-molecules. However, as the "mixed-mutant" antibody variants of the invention are
capable of pairing with each other; providing a restored or even increased Clq-binding,
complement activation, CDC, oligomer formation, and/or oligomer stability for the specific
antibody variant pair, as compared to, e.g., each variant alone or a mix of the parent
antibody or parent antibodies. In one embodiment of the invention, the oligomer is a
hexamer. In one embodiment, the antibody variant pair also or alternatively has a retained
or improved other effector function, such as Clq-binding, complement activation,
complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxity
(ADCC), FcRn-binding, Fc-receptor binding including Fc-gamma receptor-binding, Protein A
binding, Protein G-binding, antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP), complement
dependent cellular cytotoxicity (CDCC), complement-enhanced cytotoxicity , opsonisation,
Fc-containing polypeptide internalization, target downmodulation, ADC uptake, induction of
apoptosis, cell death, cell cycle arrest, and any combination thereof. This aspect of the
invention provides for a number of applications where not only the strength but also the
selectivity in the Clq-binding, complement activation, CDC or other effector function can be
regulated.
        Exemplary mutation sites for each antibody variant in a "mixed-mutant" pair are
shown in Table 2. Specifically, the invention provides a variant of an antibody comprising an
antigen-binding region and an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin, which variant comprises a
mutation in a residue in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain corresponding to one of
K439 and S440. In one embodiment, the mutation is in K439, and is an amino acid
substitution into an amino acid selected from E or D, such as K439E. In one embodiment,
the mutation is in S440, and is an amino acid substitution into an amino acid selected from
K, R or H, such as S440K.
        Thus in one embodiment the present invention also relates to a variant comprising a
mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from:
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,

                                               74
         (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
         (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
         (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
         (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain;
and in an amino acid residue corresponding to K439 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain.
         In another embodiment the present invention also relates to a variant comprising a
mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from:
         (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
         (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
         (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
         (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
         (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain;
and in an amino acid residue corresponding to S440 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain.
         In one embodiment, the two above described embodiments may be combined in the
"mixed-mutant" pair aspect according to the present invention.
         Each variant in a "mixed-mutant" pair may further comprise a mutation in an amino
acid listed in Table 1.
         In one embodiment of the present invention, the "mixed-mutant" pair comprises a
first variant of a parent antibody and a second variant of a parent antibody,
wherein the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an antigen
binding region, wherein said first variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least one amino
acid residue other than a mutation in K439 selected from the group of
         (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
         (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
         (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
         (d) an amino acid residue within that C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
         (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and

                                               75
        (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain; and
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an
antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least
one amino acid residue other than a mutation in S440 selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within that C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain,
        and (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc region of
an IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
        Other exemplary "mixed-mutant" pairs may further comprise, and is not limited to,
any of the following pairs; ; a first variant comprising the mutation K447E and a second
variant comprising the mutation K447/P448; a first variant comprising the mutation K447E
and a second variant comprising the mutation K447/K448/P449.
        In one embodiment, the mutation is a deletion, insertion or substitution. Such a
substitution of amino acids may be with any naturally occurring or non-naturally amino
acids. In one embodiment, the mutation is a deletion. In another embodiment, the mutation
is an insertion. In another embodiment, the mutation is a substitution of an amino acid.
        In a particular embodiment, the first variant and/or second variant comprises a
mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345,
E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is
S440Y or S440W.
        In a particular embodiment, the first variant and/or the second variant comprises a
mutation     in at least one amino acid residues may be an amino acid substitution
corresponding to any of the group consisting of P247G, 1253V, S254L, Q311L, Q311W,
E345A, E345C,      E345D,  E345F,   E345G,   E345H,   E345I, E345K, E345L, E345M,      E345N,
E345P, E345Q, E345R, E345S, E345T, E345V, E345W, E345Y, D/E356G, D/E356R, T359R,
E382L, E382V, Q386K, E430A, E430C, E430D, E430F, E430G, E430H, E430I, E430K, E430L,
E430M, E430N, E430P, E430Q, E430R, E430S, E430T, E430V, E430W, E430Y, Y436I, S440Y
and S440W, and the first variant comprises a second mutation in the position corresponding
to K439 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and the second variant comprises a
second mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain.

                                                  76
         For example, in one embodiment, one variant in a "mixed-mutant" pair comprises
E345R and K439E mutations, while the other variant comprises E345R and S440K
mutations, thus providing for both increased and more specific Clq-binding avidity,
complement activation, CDC, oligomer formation, oligomer stability, and/or other effector
related function such as FcRn-binding, ADCC, Fc-gamma receptor-binding, Protein A
binding, Protein G-binding, ADCP, CDCC, complement-enhanced cytotoxicity, antibody
mediated phagocytosis, internalization, apoptosis, binding to complement receptor of an
opsonized antibody, and/or combinations thereof.
         The "mixed-mutant" aspect, may also comprise two variants comprising each more
than one mutations listed in Tablet, in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, such as
a first variant comprising the mutations S440K/K447E, and a second variant comprising the
mutation K439E/K447/P448; such as a first variant comprising the mutations K439E/K447E,
and a second variant comprising the mutation S440K/K447/P448.
         The variants in a "mixed-mutant" pair as described herein may derive from the same
or from different parent antibodies. Further, the "mixed-mutant" aspect can also be
employed in bispecific or asymmetrical antibodies. Further, the first, second and third
antibody may bind different epitopes, on the same or different targets.
         Further, the "mixed-mutant" aspect can provide for a CDC or other effector response
that is more specifically directed to tumor cells expressing two specific tumor antigens, by
utilizing a first antibody against the first antigen with a K439E mutation and a second
antibody against the second antigen with a S440K or S440R mutation. By utilizing the
"mixed-mutant" aspect comprising three variants, optionally being bispecific antibodies,
may provide for a CDC or other effector response that is more specifically directed to tumor
cells expressing at least two, such as two, three, four, five or six, specific tumor antigens.
         In one embodiment of any of the "single-mutant", "double-mutant" and "mixed
mutant" aspects, the variant is selected from a monospecific antibody, bispecific antibody or
multispecific antibody.
         In any embodiment of the "mixed-mutant" aspect, the first, second and/or third
variant may comprise the same or different mutation of any of the amino acid substitutions
listed in Table 1.
Multispecific antibodies
         It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.

                                               77
         It is to be understood that any embodiment of the "single-mutant", "double-mutant"
and "mixed-mutant" aspects described herein may be used in the multispecific antibody
aspect described below.
         In one main aspect, the invention relates to a variant, which is a bispecific antibody
comprising a first polypeptide comprising a first CH2-CH3 region of an immunoglobulin and
a first antigen-binding region, and a second polypeptide comprising a second CH2-CH3
region of an immunoglobulin and a second antigen-binding region, wherein the first and
second antigen-binding regions bind different epitopes on the same antigen or on different
antigens, and wherein
        the first and second CH2-CH3 region each comprises a first mutation in at least one
amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247,
1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
         In one embodiment, the mutation is a deletion, insertion or substitution. Such a
substitution of amino acids may be with any naturally occurring or non-naturally acids.
        The bispecific antibody of the present invention is not limited to a particular format
and it may be any of those described above and herein.
         In one embodiment of the present invention, the first and second polypeptide
comprises one first mutation in an amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to
E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in
the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
         In a particular embodiment, the mutation in at least one amino acid residues may be
an amino acid substitution corresponding to any of the group consisting of P247G, 1253V,
S254L, Q311L, Q311W, E345A, E345C, E345D, E345F, E345G, E345H, E3451, E345K,
E345L, E345M, E345N, E345P, E345Q, E345R, E345S, E345T, E345V, E345W, E345Y,
D/E356G, D/E356R, T359R, E382L, E382V, Q386K, E430A, E430C, E430D, E430F, E430G,
E430H, E430I, E430L, E430M, E430N, E430P, E430Q, E430R, E430S, E430T, E430V,
E430W, E430Y, Y4361, S440Y and S440W.
         In a particular embodiment, the bispecific antibody has the format described in WO
2011/131746. Thus, in one embodiment, the variant which is a bispecific antibody, wherein
the first polypeptide comprises a further mutation in an amino acid residue selected from
those corresponding to K409, T366, L368, K370, D399, F405, and Y407 in the Fc-region of
a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
the second polypeptide comprises a further mutation in an amino acid residue selected from
those corresponding to F405, T366, L368, K370, D399, Y407 and K409 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and wherein the said further mutation in the first polypeptide is
different from the said further mutation in the second polypeptide.

                                              78
        In a particular embodiment, the bispecific antibody has a first polypeptide comprises
the further mutation in the amino acid residue corresponding to K409 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and the second polypeptide comprises the further mutation in the
amino acid residue corresponding to F405 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
Such bispecific antibodies according to the invention can be generated as described in
Example 22. Furthermore, the effect on CDC killing by the generated heterodimeric proteins
can be tested by using an assay as used in Example 23.
        In a particular embodiment, the bispecific antibody comprising a first and a second
polypeptide, wherein the first polypeptide comprises a mutation in the amino acid residue
corresponding to K409 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; the second
polypeptide comprises a mutation in the amino acid residue corresponding to F405 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and the first and/or second polypeptide comprises
further a mutation in the amino acid residue corresponding to the amino acid substitution
E345R in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
        In a particular embodiment, the bispecific antibody comprising a first and a second
polypeptide, wherein the first polypeptide comprises a mutation in the amino acid residue
corresponding to K409 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; the second
polypeptide comprises a mutation in the amino acid residue corresponding to F405 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; the first and/or the second polypeptide comprises
each further a mutation in the amino acid residues corresponding to the amino acid
substitution E345R and Q386K in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain. Said further
mutations may be both in the first and second polypeptide, or E345R may be in the first
polypeptide and Q386K in the second polypeptide; or vice versa.
        In a particular embodiment, the bispecific antibody comprising a first and a second
polypeptide, wherein the first polypeptide comprises a mutation in the amino acid residue
corresponding to K409 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; the second
polypeptide comprises a mutation in the amino acid residue corresponding to F405 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and the first and/or second polypeptide comprises
each further a mutation in the amino acid residues corresponding to the amino acid
substitution E345R, Q386K, and E430G in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain. Said
mutations may be in both the first and second polypeptide, or the first polypeptide may
comprise the mutations E345R and E430G, and the second polypeptide may comprise the
mutation Q386K; or vice versa.
        The bispecific antibody may, for example, comprise an antigen-binding region of a
CD20 antibody and an antigen-binding region of a CD38 antibody, and an amino acid
substitution in one or more amino acids listed in Tables 1 and/or 2. Examplary CD20
binding regions include those of ofatumumab (2F2), 7D8 and 11B8, described in
W02004/035607, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety, and rituximab

                                               79
(WO 2005/103081). Exemplary CD38-binding regions include those of 003 and
daratumumab (005), described in W02006/099875, which is hereby incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
        In one embodiment, the bispecific antibody binds different epitopes on the same or
different target.
        In another embodiment, the first mutation in the first and second polypeptide may
be the same or different.
        In one embodiment of the "single-mutant", "double-mutant", "mixed-mutant" and
multispecific antibody aspect, the variant is a human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl, IgA2,
IgD or IgE antibody, optionally a human full-length antibody, such as a human full-length
IgG1 antibody.
        In   any   "single-mutant",  "double-mutant",     "mixed-mutant"     aspect,  and   the
multispecific antibody aspects the C1q-binding of the antibody is determined according to
the assay described in Example 4, the CDC is determined according to the assay described
in Example 5, 6 or 10, the mutation is not in an amino acid residue directly involved in C1q
binding, optionally as determined by comparing C1q-binding in an ELISA assay according to
Example 3 with C1q-binding in a cell-based assay according to Example 4, and the ADCC is
determined according to the assay described in Example 12.
Additionally, the invention provides for a preparation of a variant of any "single-mutant",
"double-mutant", "mixed-mutant" and multispecific antibody aspect or embodiment
described above. The invention also provides for a composition comprising a variant of any
"double-mutant" aspect and embodiment described above, e.g., a pharmaceutical
compositions. The invention also provides for the use of any such variant, preparation, or
composition as a medicament.
The above "single-mutant", "double-mutant", "mixed mutant" and multispecific antibody
aspects of the invention are particularly applicable to human antibody molecules having an
IgG1 heavy chain comprising the relevant segment, P247 to K447, corresponding to the
underlined residues 130 to 330 of the human IgG1 heavy chain constant region (UniProt
accession No. P01857; SEQ ID NO:1):
   1 astkgpsvfp lapsskstsg gtaalgclvk dyfpepvtvs wnsgaltsgv
   51 htfpavlqss glyslssvvt vpssslgtqt yicnvnhkps ntkvdkkvep
  101 kscdkthtcp pcpapellgg psvflfppkp kdtlmisrtp evtcvvvdvs
  151 hedpevkfnw yvdgvevhna       ktkpreeqyn styrvvsvlt vlhqdwlngk
  201 eykckvsnka lpapiektis kakgqprepq vytlppsrde ltknqvsltc
  251 lvkgfypsdi avewesngqp ennykttppv ldsdgsffly skltvdksrw
  301 qqgnvfscsv mhealhnhyt qkslslspgk

                                             80
The present invention can also be applied to antibody molecules having a human IgG2
heavy chain portion. Amino acid residues P247 to K447 of the IgG1 heavy chain correspond
to the underlined residues 126 to 326 of the IgG2 heavy chain constant region (accession
number P01859; SEQ ID NO:2)
      1 astkgpsvfp lapcsrstse staalgclvk dyfpepvtvs wnsgaltsgv
    51 htfpavlqss glyslssvvt vpssnfgtqt ytcnvdhkps ntkvdktver
   101 kccvecppcp appvagpsvf lfppkpkdtl misrtpevtc vvvdvshedp
   151 evqfnwvvdq vevhnaktkp reeqfnstfr vvsvltvvhq dwlnqkevkc
   201  kvsnkqlpap iektisktk    g qprepqvvtl   ppsreemtkn  qvsltclvkq
   251   fypsdiavew esnqpenny     kttppmldsd qsfflvsklt vdksrwqqqn
   301  vfscsvmhea lhnhvtqksl slspqk
The present invention can also be applied to antibody molecules having a human IgG3
heavy chain portion. Amino acid residues P247 to K447 of the IgG1 heavy chain correspond
to residues 177 to 377 of the IgG3 heavy chain constant region (UniProt accession No.
P01860, SEQ ID NO:3), underlined in the following:
     1 astkgpsvfp lapcsrstsg gtaalgclvk dyfpepvtvs wnsgaltsgv
    51 htfpavlqss glyslssvvt vpssslgtqt ytcnvnhkps ntkvdkrvel
   101 ktplgdttht cprcpepksc dtpppcprcp epkscdtppp cprcpepksc
   151 dtpppcprcp apellggpsv flfppkpkdt 1misrtpevt cvvvdvshed
   201  pevgfkwvvd  qvevhnaktk preegynstf rvvsvltvlh gdwlnqkeyk
   251 ckvsnkalpa piektisktk qprepqvvt 1ppsreemtk nqvsltclvk
   301 qfvpsdiave wessqpenn vnttopmlds dqsfflvskl tvdksrwqg
   351 nifscsvmhe   alhnrftqks lslspqk
The present invention can also be applied to antibody molecules having a human IgG4
heavy chain portion. Amino acid residues P247 to K447 of the IgG1 heavy chain correspond
to the underlined residues 127 to 327 of the IgG4 heavy chain constant region (accession
number P01859, SEQ ID NO:4)
      1 astkgpsvfp lapcsrstse staalgclvk dyfpepvtvs wnsgaltsgv
    51 htfpavlqss glyslssvvt vpssslgtkt ytcnvdhkps ntkvdkrves
   101 kygppcpscp apeflggpsv flfppkpkdt lmisrtpevt cvvvdvsqed
   151 pevqfnwyvd gvevhnaktk preeqfnsty rvvsvltvlh qdwlngkeyk
   201 ckvsnkglps siektiskak gqprepqvyt lppsqeemtk nqvsltclvk
   251 gfypsdiave wesngqpenn ykttppvlds dgsfflysrl tvdksrwqeg
   301 nvfscsvmhe   alhnhytqks lslslgk

                                               81
The present invention can also be applied to an antibody having a human IgG1m(f) allotype
heavy chain portion. The amino acid sequence of the IgG1m(f) allotype (the CH3 sequence
is underlined) - SEQ ID NO:5
           1 astkgpsvfp lapsskstsg gtaalgclvk dyfpepvtvs wnsgaltsgv
          51 htfpavlqss glyslssvvt vpssslgtqt yicnvnhkps ntkvdkrvep
        101 kscdkthtcp pcpapellgg psvflfppkp kdtlmisrtp evtcvvvdvs
        151 hedpevkfnw yvdgvevhna       ktkpreeqyn styrvvsvlt vlhqdwlngk
        201 eykckvsnka lpapiektis kakgqprepq vytlppsree mtknqvsltc
        251 lvkgfypsdi avewesngqp ennykttppv ldsdgsffly skltvdksrw
        301 qqgnvfscsv mhealhnhyt qkslslspgk
An alignment of the respective segments of the IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, and IgG1m(f)
constant regions is shown in Figure 2. Accordingly, any mutation in an amino acid described
in Table 1 or Table 2A and B can be introduced at its equivalent position in IgG2, IgG3,
IgG4, and/or IgG1m(f) as defined by the alignment to obtain a variant according to the
invention.
        In one embodiment, the invention provides a variant of a full-length IgG1, IgG2,
IgG3, or IgG4 antibody, comprising one or more amino acid substitutions according to any
aspect described above.
        In any "single-mutant", "double-mutant", "mixed-mutant" aspects and multispecific
antibody, the Fc-region of an IgG1 heavy chain may comprise the sequence of residues 130
to 330 of SEQ ID NO:1, residues 126 to 326 of SEQ ID NO:2, residues 177 to 377 of SEQ ID
NO:3, or residues 127 to 327 of SEQ ID NO:4.
        In one embodiment, a parent antibody comprises a sequence selected from SEQ ID
No.: 1-5, such as SEQ ID No.:1, SEQ ID No.:2, SEQ ID No.:3, SEQ ID No.:4, or SEQ ID
No.:5.
        In one embodiment, the Fc-region of an IgG1 heavy chain comprises the sequence of
residues 130 to 330 of SEQ ID NO:1.
       The parent antibody may be any parent antibody as described herein. The parent
antibody in this context is intended to be also first parent and second parent antibodies.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody is a human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4,
IgAl, IgA2, IgD or IgE antibody.
        In one embodiment the parent antibody is human full-length antibody, such as a
human full-length IgG1 antibody.

                                              82
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody, first parent antibody and second parent
antibody is a human IgG1 antibody, e.g. the IgG1m(za) or IgG1m(f) allotype, optionally
comprising an Fc-region comprising SEQ ID NO: 1 or 5.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody is a human IgG2 antibody, optionally
comprising an Fc-region comprising SEQ ID NO:2.
        In one embodiment, the parent antibody is a human IgG3 antibody, optionally
comprising an Fc-region comprising SEQ ID NO:3.
In one embodiment, the parent antibody is a human IgG4 antibody, optionally comprising
an Fc-region comprising SEQ ID NO:4.
        In particular embodiments of any of the "single-mutant", "double-mutant", "mixed
mutant" and multispecific antibody aspects, the variant comprises an amino acid sequence
which has a degree of identity to amino acids P247 to K447 of SEQ ID Nos: 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5
of at least 70%, 72%, 74%, 76%, 78%, 80%, 81%, 82%, 83%, 84%, 85%, 86%, 87%,
88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or of at least about 99%,
except for the mutations introduced according to the present invention.
        Thus, the variant may comprise a sequence according to SEQ ID No:1, SEQ ID No:2,
SEQ ID No:3, SEQ ID No: 4, or SEQ ID No:5 except for any mutation defined herein.
        In any of the above "single-mutant", "double-mutant", "mixed-mutant" and
multispecific aspects according to the present invention may be understood to include the
following embodiments.
        In one embodiment, the first and/or second parent antibody is an antibody fragment,
optionally selected from the group consisting of a monovalent antibody, a heavy-chain
antibody, a strand-exchange engineered domain (SEED), a triomab, a dual variable domain
immunoglobulin (DVD-Ig),      a knob-into-holes antibody, a mini-antibody, a dual-affinity
retargeting molecule (Fc-DART or Ig-DART); a LUZ-Y antibody, a Biclonic antibody, a Dual
Targeting (DT)-Ig antibody, a Two-in-one Antibody, a cross-linked Mab, a mAb 2 , a CovX
body, an IgG-like Bispecific antibody, a Ts2Ab, a BsAb, a HERCULES antibody, a TvAb, an
ScFv/Fc Fusion antibody, a SCORPION, an scFv fragment fused to an Fc domain, and a dual
scFv fragment fused to an Fc domain.
        In a further embodiment, both the first and the second parent antibody bind an
antigen expressed on the surface of a human tumor cell.
        In a further embodiment, the antigens for the first and second parent antibody are
separately selected from the group consisting of erbB1 (EGFR), erbB2 (HER2), erbB3,
erbB4, MUC-1, CD4, CD19, CD20, CD38, CD138, CXCR5, c-Met, HERV-envelop protein,
periostin, Bigh3, SPARC, BCR, CD79, CD37, EGFrvIII, Li-CAM, AXL, Tissue Factor (TF),
CD74, EpCAM and MRP3.
        In a further embodiment, the first and second parent antibodies are fully human.

                                                83
         In a further embodiment, the antigens for the first and second parent antibody are,
in any order, selected from CD20 and CD38, optionally wherein the first and second parent
antibodies are, in any order, selected from 7D8 and 005.
         In a further embodiment, both the first antibody and the second antibody bind
antigens expressed on the surface of a bacterial cell or a virion.
         In another embodiment, the bacterial cell is selected from the group consisting of S.
aureus, S. epidermidis, S. pneumonia, Bacillus anthracis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Chlamydia trachomatis, E. coli, Salmonella, Shigella, Yersinia, S. typhimurium, Neisseria
meningitides, and Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
         In a further embodiment, the first and second parent antibody binds the same
antigen.
         In another embodiment, the first and second parent antibodies are the same
antibody.
         In another embodiment, the parent antibody is selected from 7D8 and 005.
Compositions
         It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.
         The invention also relates to compositions comprising variants and parent antibodies
may be any variant and parent antibody as described herein. Specific aspects and
embodiments will be described below. Furthermore, such variants may be obtained
according to any method described herein.
         In one aspect the present invention relates to a composition comprising a first
variant of a parent polypeptide and a second variant of a parent polypeptide, wherein the
first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region,
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a
binding region, and wherein
(i) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and said second variant comprises a mutation in the
position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W,
(ii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E in the
Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a mutation in
the position corresponding to K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, or

                                                84
(iii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E in the
Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a mutation in
the position corresponding to K447K/R/H, 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain.
          In one embodiment the first one or both of the variant of a parent polypeptide and
the second variant of a parent polypeptide may be an antibody.
         Thus in one an aspect, the invention relates to a composition comprising a first
variant of a parent antibody and a second variant of a parent antibody, wherein the first
variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an antigen-binding region,
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an
antigen-binding region, and wherein
(i) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and said second variant comprises a mutation in the
position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W,
(ii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E in the
Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a mutation in
the position corresponding to K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, or
(iii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E in the
Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a mutation in
the position corresponding to K447K/R/H, 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain.
          In one embodiment the composition comprising a first variant of a parent antibody
and a second variant of a parent antibody, wherein the first variant comprises a first Fc
domain of an immunoglobulin and an antigen-binding region, wherein the second variant
comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an antigen-binding region, and
wherein said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and wherein the second variant comprises a
mutation in the position corresponding to S440, with the proviso that the mutation in S440
is not S440Y or S440W.
          In one embodiment, the composition comprising the first variant of a parent
antibody and the second variant of a parent antibody,
wherein the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an antigen
binding region, wherein said first variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least one amino
acid residue other than a mutation in K439 selected from the group of
          (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
          (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,

                                               85
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain; and
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an
antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least
one amino acid residue other than a mutation in S440 selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc region of an
IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
        In another embodiment, the composition comprising the first variant of an antibody
and the second variant of a parent antibody, wherein the first variant comprises (i) a first
mutation in at least one amino acid residue other than a mutation in K439 selected from the
group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        wherein the second variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to
S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, which is not is not S440Y or S440W.
        In another embodiment, the composition comprising the first variant of a parent
antibody and the second variant of a parent antibody,

                                               86
wherein the first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an
antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least
one amino acid residue other than a mutation in S440 selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain,
        and (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc region of
an IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
        In one embodiment, the mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc
region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the position
corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
        In another aspect the present invention relates to a composition comprising a first
variant of an parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a
binding region and a second variant of a parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an
immunoglobulin and a binding region, wherein
the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a first antigen
binding region, wherein the first variant comprises a first mutation in at least an amino acid
residue selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and wherein
the second variant does not comprise a mutation in an amino acid residue selected from the
group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,

                                                87
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
(e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain.
        In one embodiment the first and/or second parent polypeptide may be an antibody.
        The present invention also relates to an embodiment of the composition, wherein the
first variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least one amino acid residue other than a
mutation in K439 selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
wherein the second variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in
the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, which is not is not S440Y or S440W.
        The present invention also relates to an embodiment of the composition, wherein the
first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of
a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an
antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least
one amino acid residue other than a mutation in S440 selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain,
        and (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc region of
an IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
        In another aspect, the present invention relates to a composition comprising a first
variant of an antibody and a second variant of a parent antibody, wherein

                                              88
the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a first antigen
binding region, wherein the first variant comprises a first mutation in at least an amino acid
residue selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a
second antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant does not comprise a mutation in
an amino acid residue selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
(e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain.
        In the embodiments, wherein the second variant does not comprise any of the listed
mutations herein described, such second variant may include any of the suitable second
antibody examples listed above in relation to the methods of effector functions.
        In one embodiment, the first and second variant comprise a first mutation in at least
one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, Q386, P247,
1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain.
        In one embodiment, the first variant comprises a mutation in at least one amino acid
residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254,
Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain,
with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
        In one particular embodiment, the first variant comprises a mutation in the amino
acid residues corresponding to E345R and Q386K in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, and the second variant does not comprise such mutations.

                                                89
         In one particular embodiment, the first variant comprises a mutation in the amino
acid residues corresponding to E345R, Q386K and E430G in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, and the second variant does not comprise such mutations.
         In one embodiment, the at least one first mutation in the first and second variants
are different.
         In one embodiment, the first variant and second variant is each a human IgG1,
IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl, IgA2, IgD or IgE antibody, optionally each a human full-length
antibody, such as each a human full-length IgG1 antibody.
         In one embodiment, the first variant and second variant is selected from a
monospecific antibody, bispecific antibody or multispecific antibody.
         In a further embodiment, the first and the second variant bind different epitopes on
the same antigen or on different antigens. Thus, in the embodiment, wherein the first and
second antibody are bispecific antibodies may be binding each two different epitopes. The at
least two bispecific antibodies may be the same or different. If the bispecific antibodies are
different, the composition, thus, comprises targeting up to four different epitopes on either
the same or different targets.
         In a further embodiment, one or both of the first variant and second variant is
conjugated to a drug, toxin or radiolabel, such as wherein one or both of the first variant
and second variant is conjugated to a toxin via a linker.
         In a further embodiment, one or both of the first variant and second variant is part
of a fusion protein.
         In another aspect, the invention relates to a composition comprising any variant, any
bispecific antibody or any composition described hereand a pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier.
         It it contemplated that any of the embodiments according to the "mixed-mutant"
aspect also may be comprised in any of the composition embodiments.
         In one embodiment, the variants of the first and second parent antibodies bind to
antigens expressed on the same cell.
         In another embodiment, the variant of the first parent antibody comprises an amino
acid substitution of K439 into an amino acid selected from E and D.
         In another embodiment, the amino acid substitution in the variant of the first parent
antibody is K439E.
         In another embodiment, the variant of the second parent antibody comprises an
amino acid substitution of S440 into an amino acid selected from K, R and H.
         In another embodiment, the amino acid substitution in the variant of the second
parent antibody variant is S440K.

                                                 90
         In an alternative embodiment, the variant of the first and/or second antibody further
comprises a mutation in a residue selected from the group consisting of H310, G385, H433,
N434, and Q438.
         In a further alternative embodiment, the variant of the first and/or second parent
antibody further comprise a mutation selected from E345 to D, K, N, Q, R, or W; E382 to D,
Q, K, or R; and H433 to R.
         In a further embodiment, the variants of the first and second parent antibodies
further comprise a mutation selected from E345R, E382R and H433R, such as E345R.
         In another aspect, the invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising
the variant of the first parent antibody and the variant of the second parent antibody of any
one of embodiments listed above.
         The pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated in accordance with conventional
techniques such as those disclosed in Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy,
1 9 th Edition, Gennaro, Ed., Mack Publishing Co., Easton, PA, 1995. A pharmaceutical
composition of the present invention may e.g. include diluents, fillers, salts, buffers,
detergents (e. g., a nonionic detergent, such as Tween-20 or Tween-80), stabilizers (e. g.,
sugars or protein-free amino acids), preservatives, isotonicity agents, antioxidants, tissue
fixatives, solubilizers, and/or other materials suitable for inclusion in a pharmaceutical
composition. Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers which may be
employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention include water, saline,
phosphate buffered saline, ethanol, dextrose, polyols (such as glycerol, propylene glycol,
polyethylene glycol).
         The pharmaceutical composition may be administered by any suitable route and
mode. In one embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is
administered parenterally. The term "administered parenterally" as used herein means
modes of administration other than enteral and topical administration, usually by injection,
and include epidermal, intravenous, intramuscular, intraarterial, intrathecal, intracapsular,
intraorbital, intracardiac, intradermal, intraperitoneal, intratendinous, transtracheal,
subcutaneous, subcuticular, intraarticular, subcapsular, subarachnoid, intraspinal,
intracranial, intrathoracic, epidural and intrasternal injection and infusion.
Kit-of-parts
         It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.
         The invention also relates to kit-of-parts for simultaneous, separate or sequential use
in therapy comprising variants and parent antibodies, wherein any variant and parent

                                                 91
antibody may be as described herein. Specific aspects and embodiments will be described
below. Furthermore, such variants may be obtained according to any method described
herein.
         The invention also relates to kit-of-parts for simultaneous, separate or sequential use
in therapy comprising variants and parent antibodies may be any variant and parent
antibody as described herein. Specific aspects and embodiments will be described below.
Furthermore, such variants may be obtained according to any method described herein.
          In one aspect the present invention relates to a kit-of-parts for simultaneous,
separate or sequential use in therapy comprising a first variant of a parent polypeptide and
a second variant of a parent polypeptide, wherein the first variant comprises a first Fc
domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, wherein the second variant comprises a
second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, and wherein
(i) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and said second variant comprises a mutation in the
position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W,
(ii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E in the
Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a mutation in
the position corresponding to K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, or
(iii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E in the
Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a mutation in
the position corresponding to K447K/R/H, 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain.
          In one embodiment the first one or both of the variant of a parent polypeptide and
the second variant of a parent polypeptide may be an antibody.
         Thus in one an aspect, the invention relates to a kit-of-parts for simultaneous,
separate or sequential use in therapy, comprising a first variant of a parent antibody and a
second variant of a parent antibody, wherein the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of
an immunoglobulin and an antigen-binding region, wherein the second variant comprises a
second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an antigen-binding region, and wherein
(i) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and said second variant comprises a mutation in the
position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W,
(ii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E in the
Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a mutation in

                                                 92
the position corresponding to K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, or
(iii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E in the
Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a mutation in
the position corresponding to K447K/R/H, 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain.
          In one embodiment the kit-of-parts for simultaneous, separate or sequential use in
therapy, comprising a first variant of a parent antibody and a second variant of a parent
antibody, wherein the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an
antigen-binding region, wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an
immunoglobulin and an antigen-binding region, and wherein said first variant comprises a
mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, and wherein the second variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding
to S440, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
          In one embodiment, the kit-of-parts for simultaneous, separate or sequential use in
therapy, comprising the first variant of a parent antibody and the second variant of a parent
antibody,
wherein the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an antigen
binding region, wherein said first variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least one amino
acid residue other than a mutation in K439 selected from the group of
          (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
          (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
          (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
          (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
          (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
          (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain; and
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an
antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least
one amino acid residue other than a mutation in S440 selected from the group of
          (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
          (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
          (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
          (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, and

                                               93
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc region of an
IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
        In another embodiment, the kit-of-parts for simultaneous, separate or sequential use
in therapy, comprising the first variant of an antibody and the second variant of a parent
antibody, wherein the first variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least one amino acid
residue other than a mutation in K439 selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        wherein the second variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to
S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, which is not is not S440Y or S440W.
        In another embodiment, the kit-of-parts for simultaneous, separate or sequential use
in therapy, comprising the first variant of a parent antibody and the second variant of a
parent antibody,
wherein the first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an
antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least
one amino acid residue other than a mutation in S440 selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain,
        and (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc region of
an IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.

                                               94
        In one embodiment, the mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc
region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the position
corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
        In another aspect the present invention relates to a kit-of-parts for simultaneous,
separate or sequential use in therapy, comprising a first variant of an parent polypeptide
comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region and a second variant
of a parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding
region, wherein
the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a first antigen
binding region, wherein the first variant comprises a first mutation in at least an amino acid
residue selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and wherein
the second variant does not comprise a mutation in an amino acid residue selected from the
group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
(e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain.
        In one embodiment the first and/or second parent polypeptide may be an antibody.
        The present invention also relates to an embodiment of the kit-of-parts for
simultaneous, separate or sequential use in therapy, wherein the first variant comprises (i)
a first mutation in at least one amino acid residue other than a mutation in K439 selected
from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,

                                               95
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and
wherein the second variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in
the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, which is not is not S440Y or S440W.
        The present invention also relates to an embodiment of the kit-of-parts for
simultaneous, separate or sequential use in therapy, wherein the first variant comprises a
mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain; and
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an
antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least
one amino acid residue other than a mutation in S440 selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain,
        and (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc region of
an IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
        In another aspect, the present invention relates to a kit-of-parts for simultaneous,
separate or sequential use in therapy, comprising a first variant of an antibody and a second
variant of a parent antibody, wherein
the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a first antigen
binding region, wherein the first variant comprises a first mutation in at least an amino acid
residue selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, and

                                              96
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a
second antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant does not comprise a mutation in
an amino acid residue selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3 region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the proviso
that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
(e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain.
        In the embodiments, wherein the second variant does not comprise any of the listed
mutations herein described, such second variant may include any of the suitable second
antibody examples listed above in relation to the methods of effector functions.
        In one embodiment, the first and second variant comprise a first mutation in at least
one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, Q386, P247,
1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain.
        In one embodiment, the first variant comprises a mutation in at least one amino acid
residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254,
Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain,
with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
        In one particular embodiment, the first variant comprises a mutation in the amino
acid residues corresponding to E345R and Q386K in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, and the second variant does not comprise such mutations.
        In one particular embodiment, the first variant comprises a mutation in the amino
acid residues corresponding to E345R, Q386K and E430G in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, and the second variant does not comprise such mutations.
        In one embodiment, the at least one first mutation in the first and second variants
are different.
        In one embodiment, the first variant and second variant is each a human IgG1,
IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl, IgA2, IgD or IgE antibody, optionally each a human full-length
antibody, such as each a human full-length IgG1 antibody.
        In one embodiment, the first variant and second variant is selected from a
monospecific antibody, bispecific antibody or multispecific antibody.
        In a further embodiment, the first and the second variant bind different epitopes on
the same antigen or on different antigens. Thus, in the embodiment, wherein the first and
second antibody are bispecific antibodies may be binding each two different epitopes. The at

                                               97
least two bispecific antibodies may be the same or different. If the bispecific antibodies are
different, the kit-of-parts for simultaneous, separate or sequential use in therapy, thus,
comprises targeting up to four different epitopes on either the same or different targets.
        In a further embodiment, one or both of the first variant and second variant is
conjugated to a drug, toxin or radiolabel, such as wherein one or both of the first variant
and second variant is conjugated to a toxin via a linker.
        In a further embodiment, one or both of the first variant and second variant is part
of a fusion protein.
        It it contemplated that any of the embodiments according to the "mixed-mutant"
aspect also may be comprised in any of the kit-of-parts for simultaneous, separate or
sequential use in therapy, embodiments.
        In one embodiment, the variants of the first and second parent antibodies bind to
antigens expressed on the same cell.
        In another embodiment, the variant of the first parent antibody comprises an amino
acid substitution of K439 into an amino acid selected from E and D.
        In another embodiment, the amino acid substitution in the variant of the first parent
antibody is K439E.
        In another embodiment, the variant of the second parent antibody comprises an
amino acid substitution of S440 into an amino acid selected from K, R and H.
        In another embodiment, the amino acid substitution in the variant of the second
parent antibody variant is S440K.
        In an alternative embodiment, the variant of the first and/or second antibody further
comprises a mutation in a residue selected from the group consisting of H310, G385, H433,
N434, and Q438.
        In a further alternative embodiment, the variant of the first and/or second parent
antibody further comprise a mutation selected from E345 to D, K, N, Q, R, or W; E382 to D,
Q, K, or R; and H433 to R.
        In a further embodiment, the variants of the first and second parent antibodies
further comprise a mutation selected from E345R, E382R and H433R, such as E345R.
        In another aspect, the invention relates to a pharmaceutical kit-of-parts for
simultaneous, separate or sequential use in therapy, comprising the variant of the first
parent antibody and the variant of the second parent antibody of any one of embodiments
listed above.
        The pharmaceutical kit-of-parts for simultaneous, separate or sequential use in
therapy, may be administered by any suitable route and mode. In one embodiment, a
pharmaceutical kit-of-parts for simultaneous, separate or sequential use in therapy, of the
present invention is administered parenterally. The term "administered parenterally" as
used herein means modes of administration other than enteral and topical administration,

                                                 98
usually by injection, and include epidermal, intravenous, intramuscular, intraarterial,
intrathecal, intracapsular, intraorbital, intracardiac, intradermal, intraperitoneal,
intratendinous, transtracheal, subcutaneous, subcuticular, intraarticular, subcapsular,
subarachnoid, intraspinal, intracranial, intrathoracic, epidural and intrasternal injection and
infusion.
Combinations
        It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.
        Additionally, the invention provides for a preparation of a variant of any "single
mutant" aspect or embodiment described above, i.e., preparations comprising multiple
copies of the variant. The invention also provides for a composition comprising a variant of
any "single-mutant" aspect and embodiment described above, e.g., a pharmaceutical
composition. The invention also provides for the use of any such "single-mutant" variant,
preparation, or composition as a medicament.
        The invention also provides for combinations of variants, wherein one variant
comprises at least one mutation independently selected from those in Table 1 and one
variant comprises at least one other mutation independently selected from those in Table 1,
as well as preparations and pharmaceutical compositions of such variant combinations and
their use as a medicament. Preferably, the two variants bind the same antigen or to
different antigens typically expressed on the surface of the same cell, cell membrane, virion
and/or other particle.
Conjuqates
        It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.
        In one aspect, the present invention relates to a variant, wherein said variant is
conjugated to a drug, toxin or radiolabel, such as wherein the variant is conjugated to a
toxin via a linker.
        In one embodiment said variant is part of a fusion protein.
        In another aspect, the variant of the invention is not conjugated at the C-terminus to
another molecule, such as a toxin or label. In one embodiment, the variant is conjugated to
another molecule at another site, typically at a site which does not interfere with oligomer
formation. For example, the antibody variant may, at the other site, be linked to a

                                                99
compound selected from the group consisting of a toxin (including a radioisotope) a prodrug
or a drug. Such a compound may make killing of target cells more effective, e.g. in cancer
therapy. The resulting variant is thus an immunoconjugate.
        Thus, in a further aspect, the present invention provides an antibody linked or
conjugated to one or more therapeutic moieties, such as a cytotoxin, a chemotherapeutic
drug, a cytokine, an immunosuppressant, and/or a radioisotope. Such conjugates are
referred to herein as "immunoconjugates" or "drug conjugates". Immunoconjugates which
include one or more cytotoxins are referred to as "immunotoxins".
        A cytotoxin or cytotoxic agent includes any agent that is detrimental to (e.g., kills)
cells. Suitable therapeutic agents for forming immunoconjugates of the present invention
include taxol, cytochalasin B, gramicidin D, ethidium bromide, emetine, mitomycin,
etoposide, tenoposide, vincristine, vinblastine, colchicin, doxorubicin, daunorubicin,
dihydroxy anthracin dione, maytansine or an analog or derivative thereof, enediyene
antitumor antibiotics including neocarzinostatin, calicheamycins, esperamicins, dynemicins,
lidamycin, kedarcidin or analogs or derivatives thereof, anthracyclins, mitoxantrone,
mithramycin, actinomycin D, 1-dehydrotestosterone, glucocorticoids, procaine, tetracaine,
lidocaine, propranolol, and puromycin, antimetabolites (such as methotrexate,
6-mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine, cytarabine, fludarabin, 5-fluorouracil, decarbazine,
hydroxyurea, asparaginase, gemcitabine, cladribine), alkylating agents (such as
mechlorethamine, thioepa, chlorambucil, melphalan, carmustine (BSNU), lomustine (CCNU),
cyclophosphamide, busulfan, dibromomannitol, streptozotocin, dacarbazine (DTIC),
procarbazine, mitomycin C, cisplatin and other platinum derivatives, such as carboplatin; as
well as duocarmycin A, duocarmycin SA, CC-1065 (a.k.a. rachelmycin), or analogs or
derivatives of CC-1065), dolastatin, pyrrolo[2,1-c][1,4] benzodiazepins (PDBs) or analogues
thereof, antibiotics (such as dactinomycin (formerly actinomycin), bleomycin, daunorubicin
(formerly daunomycin), doxorubicin, idarubicin, mithramycin, mitomycin, mitoxantrone,
plicamycin, anthramycin (AMC)), anti-mitotic agents (e.g., tubulin-inhibitors) such as
monomethyl auristatin E, monomethyl auristatin F, or other analogs or derivatives of
dolastatin 10; Histone deacetylase inhibitors such as the hydroxamic acids trichostatin A,
vorinostat (SAHA), belinostat, LAQ824, and panobinostat as well as the benzamides,
entinostat, C1994, mocetinostat and aliphatic acid compounds such as phenylbutyrate and
valproic acid, proteasome inhibitors such as Danoprevir, bortezomib, amatoxins such as X
amantin, diphtheria toxin and related molecules (such as diphtheria A chain and active
fragments thereof and hybrid molecules); ricin toxin (such as ricin A or a deglycosylated
ricin A chain toxin), cholera toxin, a Shiga-like toxin (SLT-I, SLT-II, SLT-IIV), LT toxin, C3
toxin, Shiga toxin, pertussis toxin, tetanus toxin, soybean Bowman-Birk protease inhibitor,
Pseudomonas exotoxin, alorin, saporin, modeccin, gelanin, abrin A chain, modeccin A chain,
alpha-sarcin, Aleurites fordii proteins, dianthin proteins, Phytolacca americana proteins

                                                  100
(PAPI, PAPII, and PAP-S), momordica charantia inhibitor, curcin, crotin, sapaonaria
officinalis inhibitor, gelonin, mitogellin, restrictocin, phenomycin, and enomycin toxins.
Other suitable conjugated molecules include antimicrobial/lytic peptides such as CLIP,
Magainin 2, mellitin, Cecropin, and P18; ribonuclease (RNase), DNase I, Staphylococcal
enterotoxin-A, pokeweed antiviral protein, diphtherin toxin, and Pseudomonas endotoxin.
See, for example, Pastan et al., Cell 47, 641 (1986) and Goldenberg, Calif. A Cancer Journal
for Clinicians 44, 43 (1994). Therapeutic agents that may be administered in combination
with an antibody of the present invention as described elsewhere herein, such as, e.g., anti
cancer cytokines or chemokines, are also candidates for therapeutic moieties useful for
conjugation to an antibody of the present invention.
        In one embodiment, the drug conjugates of the present invention comprise an
antibody as disclosed herein conjugated to auristatins or auristatin peptide analogs and
derivates (US5635483; US5780588). Auristatins have been shown to interfere with
microtubule dynamics, GTP hydrolysis and nuclear and cellular division (Woyke et al (2001)
Antimicrob. Agents and Chemother. 45(12): 3580-3584) and have anti-cancer (US5663149)
and anti-fungal activity (Pettit et al., (1998) Antimicrob. Agents and Chemother. 42:2961
2965. The auristatin drug moiety may be attached to the antibody via a linker, through the
N (amino) terminus or the C (terminus) of the peptidic drug moiety.
        Exemplary auristatin embodiments include the N-terminus-linked monomethyl
auristatin drug moieties DE and DF, disclosed in Senter et al., Proceedings of the American
Association for Cancer Research. Volume 45, abstract number 623, presented March 28,
2004 and described in US 2005/0238649).
        An exemplary auristatin embodiment is MMAE (monomethyl auristatin E). Another
exemplary auristatin embodiment is MMAF (monomethyl auristatin F).
        In one embodiment, an antibody of the present invention comprises a conjugated
nucleic acid or nucleic acid-associated molecule. In one such embodiment, the conjugated
nucleic acid is a cytotoxic ribonuclease, an antisense nucleic acid, an inhibitory RNA
molecule (e.g., a siRNA molecule) or an immunostimulatory nucleic acid (e.g., an
immunostimulatory CpG motif-containing DNA molecule). In another embodiment, an
antibody of the present invention is conjugated to an aptamer or a ribozyme.
        In one embodiment, antibodies comprising one or more radiolabeled amino acids are
provided. A radiolabeled variant may be used for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes
(conjugation to radiolabeled molecules is another possible feature). Non-limiting examples
of labels for polypeptides include 3H, 14C, 15N, 35S, 90Y, 99Tc, and 1251, 1311, and
186Re. Methods for preparing radiolabeled amino acids and related peptide derivatives are
known in the art, (see, for instance Junghans et al., in Cancer Chemotherapy and
Biotherapy 655-686 ( 2 "d Ed., Chafner and Longo, eds., Lippincott Raven (1996)) and U.S.
4,681,581, U.S. 4,735,210, U.S. 5,101,827, U.S. 5,102,990 (US RE35,500), U.S. 5,648,471

                                               101
and U.S. 5,697,902. For example, a radioisotope may be conjugated by the chloramine-T
method.
          In one embodiment, the variant of the present invention is conjugated to a
radioisotope or to a radioisotope-containing chelate. For example, the variant can be
conjugated to a chelator linker, e.g. DOTA, DTPA or tiuxetan, which allows for the antibody
to be complexed with a radioisotope. The variant may also or alternatively comprise or be
conjugated to one or more radiolabeled amino acids or other radiolabeled molecule. A
radiolabeled variant may be used for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. In one
embodiment the variant of the present invention is conjugated to an alpha-emitter. Non
limiting examples of radioisotopes include 3 H,   14 C, 15 N, 35 S, 90Y, 99
                                                                           Tc, 1251, "'In, 131I, 86
                                                                                                    Re,
                                                                                                    R
2 13     225        22 7
     Bs,     Ac and     Th.
          In one embodiment the variant of the present invention may be conjugated to a
cytokine selected from the group consisting of IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-7, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13,
IL-15, IL-18, IL-23, IL-24, IL-27, IL-28a, IL-28b, IL-29, KGF, IFNa, IFNS, IFNy, GM-CSF,
CD40L, Flt3 ligand, stem cell factor, ancestim, and TNFa.
          Variants of the present invention may also be chemically modified by covalent
conjugation to a polymer to for instance increase their circulating half-life. Exemplary
polymers, and methods to attach them to peptides, are illustrated in for instance US
4,766,106, US 4,179,337, US 4,495,285 and US 4,609,546. Additional polymers include
polyoxyethylated polyols and polyethylene glycol (PEG) (e.g., a PEG with a molecular weight
of between about 1,000 and about 40,000, such as between about 2,000 and about
20,000).
          Any method known in the art for conjugating the variant of the present invention to
the conjugated molecule(s), such as those described above, may be employed, including
the methods described by Hunter et al., Nature 144, 945 (1962), David et al., Biochemistry
13, 1014 (1974), Pain et al., J. Immunol. Meth. 40, 219 (1981) and Nygren, J. Histochem.
and Cytochem. 30, 407 (1982). Such variants may be produced by chemically conjugating
the other moiety to the N-terminal side or C-terminal side of the variant or fragment thereof
(e.g., an antibody H or L chain) (see, e.g., Antibody Engineering Handbook, edited by
Osamu Kanemitsu, published by Chijin Shokan (1994)). Such conjugated variant derivatives
may also be generated by conjugation at internal residues or sugars, where appropriate.
          The agents may be coupled either directly or indirectly to a variant of the present
invention. One example of indirect coupling of a second agent is coupling via a spacer or
linker moiety to cysteine or lysine residues in the bispecific antibody. In one embodiment,
an variant is conjugated to a prodrug molecule that can be activated in vivo to a therapeutic
drug via a spacer or linker. In some embodiments, the linker is cleavable under intracellular
conditions, such that the cleavage of the linker releases the drug unit from the antibody in
the intracellular environment. In some embodiments, the linker is cleavable by a cleavable

                                                 102
agent that is present in the intracellular environment (e. g. within a lysosome or endosome
or caveola). For example, the spacers or linkers may be cleaveable by tumor-cell associated
enzymes or other tumor-specific conditions, by which the active drug is formed. Examples
of such prodrug techologies and linkers are described in W002083180, W02004043493,
W02007018431, W02007089149, W02009017394 and W0201062171 by Syntarga BV, et
al. Suitable antibody-prodrug technology and duocarmycin analogs can also be found in U.S.
Patent No. 6,989,452 (Medarex), incorporated herein by reference. The linker can also or
alternatively be, e.g. a peptidyl linker that is cleaved by an intracellular peptidase or
protease enzyme, including but not limited to, a lysosomal or endosomal protease. In some
embodiments, the peptidyl linker is at least two amino acids long or at least three amino
acids long. Cleaving agents can include cathepsins B and D and plasmin, all of which are
known to hydrolyze dipeptide drug derivatives resulting in the release of active drug inside
the target cells (see e. g. Dubowchik and Walker, 1999, Pharm. Therapeutics 83:67-123).
In a specific embodiment, the peptidyl linker cleavable by an intracellular protease is a Val
Cit (valine-citrulline) linker or a Phe-Lys (phenylalanine-lysine) linker (see e.g. US6214345,
which describes the synthesis of doxorubicin with the Val-Cit linker and different examples
of Phe-Lys linkers). Examples of the structures of a Val-Cit and a Phe-Lys linker include but
are not limited to MC-vc-PAB described below, MC-vc-GABA, MC-Phe-Lys-PAB or MC-Phe
Lys-GABA, wherein MC is an abbreviation for maleimido caproyl, vc is an abbreviation for
Val-Cit, PAB is an abbreviation for p-aminobenzylcarbamate and GABA is an abbreviation for
y-aminobutyric acid. An advantage of using intracellular proteolytic release of the
therapeutic agent is that the agent is typically attenuated when conjugated and the serum
stabilities of the conjugates are typically high.
         In yet another embodiment, the linker unit is not cleavable and the drug is released
by antibody degradation (see US 2005/0238649). Typically, such a linker is not
substantially sensitive to the extracellular environment. As used herein, "not substantially
sensitive to the extracellular environment" in the context of a linker means that no more
than 20%, typically no more than about 15%, more typically no more than about 10%, and
even more typically no more than about 5%, no more than about 3%, or no more than
about 1% of the linkers, in a sample of variant antibody drug conjugate compound, are
cleaved when the variant antibody drug conjugate compound presents in an extracellular
environment (e.g. plasma). Whether a linker is not substantially sensitive to the
extracellular environment can be determined for example by incubating the variant antibody
drug conjugate compound with plasma for a predetermined time period (e.g. 2, 4, 8, 16 or
24 hours) and then quantitating the amount of free drug present in the plasma. Exemplary
embodiments comprising MMAE or MMAF and various linker components have the following
structures (wherein Ab means antibody and p, representing the drug-loading (or average

                                               103
number of cytostatic or cytotoxic drugs per antibody molecule), is 1 to about 8, e.g. p may
be from 4-6, such as from 3-5, or p may be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8).
        Examples where a cleavable linker is combined with an auristatin include MC-vc-PAB
MMAF (also designated as vcMMAF) and MC-vc-PAB-MMAF (also designated as vcMMAE),
wherein MC is an abbreviation for maleimido caproyl, vc is an abbreviation for the Val-Cit
(valine-citruline) based linker, and PAB is an abbreviation for p-aminobenzylcarbamate.
        Other examples include auristatins combined with a non-cleavable linker, such as
mcMMAF (mc (MC is the same as mc in this context) is an abbreviation of maleimido
caproyl).
        In one embodiment, the drug linker moiety is vcMMAE. The vcMMAE drug linker
moiety and conjugation methods are disclosed in W02004010957, US7659241, US7829531,
US7851437 and US 11/833,028 (Seattle Genetics, Inc.), (which are incorporated herein by
reference), and the vcMMAE drug linker moiety is bound to the antibodies at the cysteines
using a method similar to those disclosed in therein.
        In one embodiment, the drug linker moiety is mcMMAF. The mcMMAF drug linker
moiety and conjugation methods are disclosed in US7498298,                US  11/833,954, and
W02005081711 (Seattle Genetics, Inc.), (which are incorporated herein by reference), and
the mcMMAF drug linker moiety is bound to the variants at the cysteines using a method
similar to those disclosed in therein.
        In one embodiment, the variant of the present invention is attached to a chelator
linker, e.g. tiuxetan, which allows for the bispecific antibody to be conjugated to a
radioisotope.
        In one embodiment, each arm (or Fab-arm) of the variant is coupled directly or
indirectly to the same one or more therapeutic moieties.
        In one embodiment, only one arm of the variant is coupled directly or indirectly to
one or more therapeutic moieties.
        In one embodiment, each arm of the variant is coupled directly or indirectly to
different therapeutic moieties. For example, in embodiments where the variant is a
bispecific antibody and is prepared by controlled Fab-arm exchange of two different
monospecific antibodies, e.g. a first and second antibody, as described herein, such
bispecific antibodies can be obtained by using monospecific antibodies which are conjugated
or associated with different therapeutic moieties.
Further uses
        It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.

                                                 104
         In a further aspect, the invention relates to a variant of the invention as described
above for use as a medicament, in particular for use as a medicament for the treatment of
diseases or disorders, wherein CDC-mediated killing of a target cell (e.g., a tumor, bacterial
or fungal cell) or target organism (e.g., a virus) is desired or a bacterial or virus infected
cell. Examples of such diseases and disorders include, without limitation, cancer and
bacterial, viral or fungal infections.
         In another aspect, the present invention relates to the variants, bispecific antibodies,
compositions and kit-of-parts described herein, for treatment of a disease, such as cancer.
         In another aspect, the present invention relates to a method for treatment of a
human comprising administration of a variant, a composition or a kit-of-parts described
herein.
         In another aspect, the present invention relates to a method for treatment of cancer
in a human comprising administration of a variant, a composition or a kit-of-parts
         "Treatment" refers to the administration of an effective amount of a therapeutically
active compound of the present invention with the purpose of easing, ameliorating,
arresting or eradicating (curing) symptoms or disease states.
         An "effective amount" or "therapeutically effective amount" refers to an amount
effective, at dosages and for periods of time necessary, to achieve a desired therapeutic
result. A therapeutically effective amount of an antibody may vary according to factors such
as the disease state, age, sex, and weight of the individual, and the ability of the antibody
to elicit a desired response in the individual. A therapeutically effective amount is also one
in which any toxic or detrimental effects of the antibody or antibody portion are outweighed
by the therapeutically beneficial effects.
         Without being bound by theory, the effective amount of a therapeutically active
compound may be decreased when any "single-mutant" aspect or embodiment according to
the present invention is introduced to such a therapeutically active compound.
         Suitable antigens for cancer antibodies may be the same as described herein.
Examples 15 to 18 describe specific applications for providing an enhanced and/or more
specific complement activation or CDC of tumor cells. For example, an anti-tumor antibody
according to the "single-mutant" aspect, comprising, e.g., a E345R mutation, can provide
for an enhanced CDC or ADCC, ADCP response of tumor cells. Further, in a variant of this
method, a mutation according to the "single-mutant" aspect, such as, e.g., E345R, E430,
S440, or Q386, alternatively E382 or H433R, or any other mutation as listed in Table 1, can
be added to each antibody, thus providing for an enhanced CDC and/or ADCC response
specifically directed to tumor cells expressing at least two antigens.
         Suitable antibodies for bacterial infections include, without limitation, those targeting
S. aureus, such as the chimeric monoclonal IgG1 pagibaximab (BSYX-A11O; Biosynexus),
targeting Lipoteichoic acid (LTA) that is embedded in the cell wall of staphylococci, and

                                                105
described in Baker (Nat Biotechnol. 2006 Dec;24(12):1491-3) and Weisman et al. (Int
Immunopharmacol. 2009 May;9(5):639-44), both of which are incorporated by reference in
their entirety. Example 14 describes a specific embodiment using S. aureus antibody
variants comprising an E345R mutation. However, other mutations in Table 1, including but
not limited to E430G and S440W, alternatively E382R and H433R, can be applied in a
similar manner to enhance the CDC-mediating capability of an antibody against a bacterial
antigen.
        Suitable antigens for viral or fungal infections may be any of the herein described.
        In one embodiment, the antigen to which the variant binds is not human EphA2. In
another embodiment, the variant is not derived from human EphA2 mAb 12G3H11
(described in Dall'Acqua et al., supra, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety). In another embodiment, the antigen to which the variant binds is not IL-9. In
another embodiment, the variant is not derived from Fa-hG1 or Fa-hG4 antibody described
in W02007005612, hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety, or any variant thereof.
In one embodiment, the antigen to which the variant binds is not HIV-1 gp120. In another
embodiment, the variant is not derived from b12 human IgG1K antibody directed against
gp120.
        In a particular embodiment, the variant derives from a bispecific parent antibody.
The bispecific antibody can be of any isotype, such as, e.g., IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, or IgG4, and
may be a full-length antibody or an Fc-containing fragment thereof. An exemplary method
for preparing a bispecific antibody is described in WO 2008/119353 (Genmab).
Dosages
        It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.
        Efficient dosages and the dosage regimens for the antibody depend on the disease or
condition to be treated and may be determined by the persons skilled in the art. An
exemplary, non-limiting range for a therapeutically effective amount of an antibody of the
present invention is about 0.1 to 100 mg/kg, such as about 0.1 to 50 mg/kg, for example
about 0.1 to 20 mg/kg, such as about 0.1 to 10 mg/kg, for instance about 0.5, about such
as 0.3, about 1, about 3, about 5, or about 8 mg/kg.
        Antibody variants of the present invention may also be administered in combination
with one or more complement factors or related components to enhance the therapeutic
efficacy of the variant and/or to compensate for complement consumption. Such
complement factors and related components include, but are not limited to, C1q, C4, C2,
C3, C5, C6, C7, C8, C9, MBL, and factor B. The combined administration may be

                                               106
simultaneous, separate or sequential. In a particular embodiment, the invention provides
for a kit comprising a pharmaceutical composition comprising a variant of the invention, and
at least one complement factor or related component in the same or different
pharmaceutical composition, together with instructions for use.
        Antibody variants of the present invention may also be administered in combination
therapy, i.e., combined with other therapeutic agents relevant for the disease or condition
to be treated. Accordingly, in one embodiment, the antibody-containing medicament is for
combination with one or more further therapeutic agents, such as a cytotoxic,
chemotherapeutic or anti-angiogenic agents. Such combined administration may be
simultaneous, separate or sequential.
        In a further embodiment, the present invention provides a method for treating or
preventing disease, such as cancer, which method comprises administration to a subject in
need thereof of a therapeutically effective amount of an variant or pharmaceutical
composition of the present invention, in combination with radiotherapy and/or surgery.
Method of preparation
        It is to be understood that all embodiments described herein with reference to a
parent antibody, first parent antibody or second parent antibody are also to be understood
as embodiments relating to a parent, first parent or second parent polypeptide comprising
an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region.
        The invention also provides isolated nucleic acids and vectors encoding a variant
according to any one of the aspects described above, as well as vectors and expression
systems encoding the variants. Suitable nucleic acid constructs, vectors and expression
systems for antibodies and variants thereof are known in the art, and described in the
Examples. In embodiments where the variant comprises not only a heavy chain (or Fc
containing fragment thereof) but also a light chain, the nucleotide sequences encoding the
heavy and light chain portions may be present on the same or different nucleic acids or
vectors.
The invention also provides a method for producing, in a host cell, an antibody variant
according to any one of the aspects described above, wherein said variant comprises at
least the Fc region of a heavy chain, said method comprising the following steps:
        a) providing a nucleotide construct encoding said Fc region of said variant,
        b) expressing said nucleotide construct in a host cell,
        and
        c) recovering said antibody variant from a cell culture of said host cell.

                                                107
        In some embodiments, the antibody is a heavy-chain antibody. In most
embodiments, however, the antibody will also contain a light chain and thus said host cell
further expresses a light-chain-encoding construct, either on the same or a different vector.
        Host cells suitable for the recombinant expression of antibodies are well-known in
the art, and include CHO, HEK-293, PER-C6, NS/0 and Sp2/0 cells. In one embodiment, said
host cell is a cell which is capable of Asn-linked glycosylation of proteins, e.g. a eukaryotic
cell, such as a mammalian cell, e.g. a human cell. In a further embodiment, said host cell is
a non-human cell which is genetically engineered to produce glycoproteins having human
like or human glycosylation. Examples of such cells are genetically-modified Pichia pastoris
(Hamilton et al., Science 301 (2003) 1244-1246; Potgieter et al., J. Biotechnology 139
(2009) 318-325) and genetically-modified Lemna minor (Cox et al., Nature Biotechnology
12 (2006) 1591-1597).
        In one embodiment, said host cell is a host cell which is not capable of efficiently
removing C-terminal lysine K447 residues from antibody heavy chains. For example, Table
2 in Liu et al. (2008) J Pharm Sci 97: 2426 (incorporated herein by reference) lists a
number of such antibody production systems, e.g. Sp2/0, NS/0 or transgenic mammary
gland (goat), wherein only partial removal of C-terminal lysines is obtained. In one
embodiment, the host cell is a host cell with altered glycosylation machinery. Such cells
have been described in the art and can be used as host cells in which to express variants of
the invention to thereby produce an antibody with altered glycosylation. See, for example,
Shields, R.L. et al. (2002) J. Biol. Chem. 277:26733-26740; Umana et al. (1999) Nat.
Biotech. 17:176-1, as well as EP1176195; WO03/035835; and W099/54342. Additional
methods for generating engineered glycoforms are known in the art, and include but are not
limited to those described in Davies et al., 2001, Biotechnol Bioeng 74:288-294; Shields et
al, 2002, J Biol Chem 277:26733-26740; Shinkawa et al., 2003, J Biol Chem 278:3466
3473), US6602684, W00/61739A1; WO01/292246A1; W002/311140A1; WO
02/30954A1; Potelligent TM technology (Biowa, Inc. Princeton, N.J.); GlycoMAbT M
glycosylation engineering technology (GLYCART biotechnology AG, Zurich, Switzerland); US
20030115614; Okazaki et al., 2004, JMB, 336: 1239-49.
        The invention also relates to an antibody obtained or obtainable by the method of
the invention described above.
        In a further aspect, the invention relates to a host cell capable of producing an
antibody variant of the invention. In one embodiment, the host cell has been transformed or
transfected with a nucleotide construct of the invention.
The present invention is further illustrated by the following examples which should not be
construed as further limiting.

                                                 108
EXAMPLES
Example 1
Design and generation of 7D8 mutants
The human monoclonal antibody HuMab-7D8 (described in WO 2004/035607) was used as
a model antibody. It belongs to a group of human anti-CD20 IgG1 antibodies, including
ofatumumab (HuMax-CD20, 2F2). These antibodies target a unique membrane-proximal
epitope on the CD20 molecule and show strong CDC.
         To test the functional relevance of oligomeric Fc-Fc interactions in complement
activation and CDC, amino acids in the hydrophobic patch at the Fc:Fc interface were
mutated to potentially disrupt the Fc-Fc side-on interaction and CDC efficacy of 7D8. In a
first set of mutants (Table 3), mutations were introduced to change the charge at positions
that were chosen based on the 1HZH crystal structure and described to be exposed in
hydrophobic patches in the CH2-CH3 domain (Burton Mol Immunol 1985 Mar;22(3):161
206)).
         From the first set of mutations, 1253D and H433A were found to induce the strongest
effect on loss of CDC by 7D8 (e.g., Example 5). The 1HZH crystal structure shows that 1253
and H433 bind two different pockets on the opposing Fc positions of the partnering
antibody. Based on these data, a second set of mutations was synthesized, around the 1253
and H433 positions in the crystal structure to further study the importance of residues at
the Fc:Fc side-on interface for CDC. The second set of mutations around the 1253 and H433
positions that potentially destabilize the Fc:Fc interface and consequently CDC are listed in
Table 4.
         To exclude the possibility that disruption of direct binding sites for Clq were the
cause of the observed effects on CDC, a double mutant was generated based on two single
mutants that showed loss of CDC, to test its ability to restore the loss of CDC by the single
mutants. This principle is schematically represented in Figure 1D The double mutant is
listed in Table 5 and a structural representation is shown in Figure 4 and Figure 5.
         Mutants were prepared using the Quikchange site-directed mutagenesis kit
(Stratagene, US). Briefly, a forward and a reverse primer encoding the desired mutation
were used to replicate full length plasmid DNA template encoding the 7D8 heavy chain with
IgGlm(f) allotype. The resulting DNA mixture was digested using DpnI to remove source
plasmid DNA and used to transform E. coli. Mutant plasmid DNA isolated from resulting
colonies was checked by DNA sequencing (Agowa, Germany). Plasmid DNA mixtures
encoding both heavy and light chain of antibodies were transiently transfected to Freestyle
HEK293F cells (Invitrogen, US) using 293fectin (Invitrogen, US) essentially as described by
the manufacturer.

                                           109
Table 3: Set 1 mutations introduced in the CH2-CH3 domain of 7D8.
Mutation            Charge   Charge mutant
                    WT aa    aa
1253D
1253Y                 =       =
1253A                 =       =
Q311A                 =       =
H433A               6+       =
N434A                 =       =
H435A               A+
H435R               6+       +
(=) no charge
(-) negative charge
(+) positive charge
(6+) partial positive charge
Table 4: Set 2 mutations introduced in the CH2-CH3 domain of 7D8.
Mutation(s)         Charge   Charge mutant
                    WT aa    aa
1253K                =       +
1253R                =       +
1253D/H433A          =/6+    -/ =
H310E               6+
H31OR               6+       +
H310K               6+       +
Q311K                 =      +
K322A               +         =
E345R               -        +
E382R               -        +
G385D
H433D               6+
H433R               6+       +
Y436C                 =       =
Y436D
Q438D
K439E               +
S440K                 =      +
(=) no charge
(-) negative charge
(+) positive charge
(6+) partial positive charge

                                                110
Table 5: Double mutations introduced in the CH2-CH3 domain of 7D8 to combine two single
mutations that each show loss of CDC.
Mutations         Charge        Charge mutant
                  WT aa         aa
K439E/S440K       +/=           -/+
(=) no charge
(-) negative charge
(+) positive charge
Example 2
CD20 binding on cells by 7D8 mutants
Binding of purified antibody samples to CD20-positive cells was analyzed by FACS analysis.
The 1 st set of mutations (Table 3) was tested on Daudi cells and the second set of
mutations (Table 4) was tested on Raji cells. 109 cells were incubated in 50 pL in
polystyrene 96-well round-bottom plates (Greiner bio-one 650101) with serial dilutions of
antibody preparations (range 0.04 to 10 pg/mL in 3-fold dilutions for 1 st set on Daudi and
range 0.003 to 10 pg/mL in 3-fold dilutions for 2 nd set on Raji) in RPMI1640/0.1% BSA at
4*C for 30 min. After washing twice in RPMI1640/0.1% BSA, cells were incubated in 100 pL
with secondary antibody at 41C for 30 min. As a secondary antibody, fluorescein
isothiocyanate (FITC)-conjugated rabbit-anti-human IgG (F0056, Dako, Glostrup, Denmark;
1/100) was used for all experiments on Daudi cells and for experiments with 7D8 antibodies
on Raji cells. For the experiments with purified 7D8 antibodies on Raji cells, R-phycoerythrin
(R-PE)-conjugated goat F(ab')     2 anti-human kappa light chain (2062-09, SouthernBiotech;
1/500) was used as a secondary antibody. Next, cells were washed twice in PBS/0.1%
BSA/0.02% azide, resuspended in 100 pL PBS/0.1% BSA/0.02% azide and analyzed on a
FACS Cantoll (BD Biosciences). Binding curves were analyzed using non-linear regression
(sigmoidal dose-response with variable slope) using GraphPad Prism V5.01 software
(GraphPad Software, San Diego, CA, USA).
          Binding of 7D8 antibody to Daudi cells was not affected by the introduction of the
point mutations in the CH2-CH3 domain and was identical for all tested mutants and wild
type 7D8. Further, binding of 7D8 antibody to Raji cells was not significantly affected by the
introduction of the point mutations in the CH2-CH3 domain compared to wild type 7D8,
except for E345R. Diminished binding of IgG1-7D8-E345R was detected on CD20-positive
Raji cells at test concentrations above 0.3 pg/mL. Also for H433D and H433R diminished
binding was detected at the highest antibody concentration tested (10 pg/mL). The
dimished binding by IgG1-7D8-E345R, H433D and H433R could be explained by shielding of
the epitope of the secondary antibody since direct labeling of E345R and H433R resulted in
similar or even increased binding to Daudi cells. The increased avidity can be explained by

                                               111
the increased Fc-Fc side-on binding by E345R and H433R in comparison to wild-type IgG1
7D8.
         Combining the K439E and S440K mutations did not affect binding of the 7D8
antibody to Raji cells and was identical to that of the single mutants and wild type 7D8.
Example 3
Cla binding ELISA by 7D8 mutants
C1q binding by the 7D8 mutants was tested in an ELISA, in which the purified antibodies
were coated on the plastic surface, bringing about random antibody multimerization. Pooled
human serum was used as a source of C1q.
         96-well Microlon ELISA plates (Greiner, Germany) were coated overnight at 41C with
a dilution series of the antibodies in PBS (range 0.58-10.0 pg/mL in 1.5-fold dilutions).
Plates were washed and blocked with 200 pL/well 0.5x PBS supplemented with 0.025%
Tween 20 and 0.1% gelatine. With washings in between incubations, plates were
sequentially incubated with 3% pooled human serum (Sanquin, product# M0008) for 1 h at
37 0 C, with 100 pL/well rabbit anti-human C1q (DAKO, product# A0136, 1/4.000) for 1 h at
RT, and with 100 pL/well swine anti-rabbit IgG-HRP (DAKO, P0399, 1:10.000) as detecting
antibody for 1 h at RT. Development was performed for circa 30 min with 1 mg/mL 2,2'
azino-bis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS; Roche, Mannheim, Germany). The
reaction was stopped by the addition of 100 pL 2% oxalic acid. Absorbance was measured
at 405 nm in a microplate reader (Biotek, Winooski, VT). Log transformed data were
analyzed by fitting sigmoidal dose-response curves with variable slope using GraphPad
Prism software. ECs 0 values of the mutants were normalized per plate against wild type
IgGl-7D8 and multiplied by the average of all wild type IgGl-7D8 data.
         As shown in Figure 6 and Table 6, the tested point mutations had minimal effect on
Clq binding as measured by ELISA. For the IgGl-7D8-I253D mutant, a slightly less efficient
Clq binding was measured in the ELISA (higher ECs 0 value). Coating efficacy was tested for
all antibodies and was found to be similar for all antibodies.

                                                        112
Table 6: EC50 for Clq binding in ELISA
Antibody              Mean ECso        SD'     Significance  2
                      (pg/mL) 1
IgG1-7D8-WT              2.048          0            Na
IgG1-7D8-I253D           3.838        1.341           *
IgG1-7D8-I253Y           2.209        0.385          Ns
IgG1-7D8-I253A           2.556        0.187          Ns
IgGl-7D8-Q311A           2.182        0.062          ns
IgGl-7D8-H433A           3.327        1.719          ns
IgG1-7D8-N434A           2.120        0.492          ns
IgG1-7D8-H435A           2.267        0.317          ns
IgGl-7D8-H435R           1.242        0.492          ns
  Mean and SD were calculated from at least 3 experiments.
2 Statistics: 1 way ANOVA on log transformed data using Dunnett's Multiple Comparison Test (GraphPad Prism
5.01). Significance was calculated in comparison to wild type IgGl-7D8: (na) not applicable (ns) not significant (*)
p=0.01 to 0.05 (**) p=0.001 to 0.01 (***) p<0.001.
Example 4
Cla binding on cells by 7D8 mutants
Coating of antibodies on a plastic surface results in an artificial static system of antibody
binding and Fc-tail presentation. Therefore, complement binding was also tested in a cell
based assay, in which C1q binding to antibody-opsonized CD20-positive B cells was
measured by FACS analysis. In experiments with set 1 mutants, Daudi or Raji cells were
suspended on ice in 90 pL RPMI 1640 media with 10% FBS (2 x 106 cells/mL). 10 pL of a
concentration series of C1q (Complement Technologies, Tyler, TX) was added (final
concentration range varies between 0-60 pg/mL and 0-140 pg/mL depending on the
maximal binding). Then, 10 pL of purified antibody (10 pg/mL final concentration, i.e.
saturating conditions) was added and the reaction mixtures were immediately transferred to
a 370 C water bath and incubated for one hour. In experiments with set 2 mutants, test mAb
was added to Daudi cells in bulk, then varying concentrations of C1q were added to aliquots
and the mixtures incubated as above. Cells were washed three times with PBS/1% BSA and
incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature with rabbit FITC-labeled anti-Clq antibody
(DakoCytomation, 10 ug/mL). Cells were washed with PBS/1%BSA and resuspended in PBS
or fixed in 2% formaldehyde in PBS. Flow cytometry was performed on a FACSCalibur flow
cytometer (BD Biosciences) and mean fluorescence intensities were converted to molecules
of equivalent soluble fluorescence (MESF) using calibrated beads (Spherotech).
The dissociation constants (KD values) for binding of Clq to CD20-positive cells opsonised
with the indicated 7D8 antibodies were calculated using SigmaPlot software (Systat
Software Inc., Washington). Average KD values were calculated from repeated binding
experiments (4 times on Daudi cells, 3 times on Raji cells) and compared to the KD value for
C1q binding on cells opsonized with wild type 7D8 (Table 7 and Table 8).
           Set 1 mutants were tested on both Daudi and Raji cells and gave the same results.
In contrast to the C1q ELISA results, most tested mutants showed decreased C1q binding
avidity (increased KD) on both antibody-opsonized Daudi (Table 7A) and Raji cells (Table

                                                       113
8). Compared to wild type 7D8, IgG1-7D8-Q311A and H435A showed little to no decrease,
1253A, 1253Y and N434A a more pronounced decrease, and 1253D and H433A a very drastic
decrease in C1q binding avidity on opsonized Daudi or Raji cells. IgGl-7D8-H435R showed a
slightly higher avidity (lower     KD)   for C1q binding than wild type 7D8 on both cell types,
which, however, was not significant.
         Set 2 mutants were tested on Daudi cells. Compared to wild type 7D8, IgGl-7D8
E345R, E382R and H433R showed increased binding avidity on opsonized Daudi cells,
reflected by the lower KD values (Table 7B). All other Set 2 mutants showed decreased
binding avidity compared to wild type 7D8, with G385D, Y436D, Q438D, K439E and S440K
showing drastically increased KD values (Table 7B) and H433D and Y436C showing such a
drastically reduced binding that no reliable KD value could be measured.
         The double mutant IgGl-7D8-K439E/S440K showed restored C1q binding on
antibody-opsonized Daudi cells, while both single mutants showed decreased C1q binding
compared to wild type 7D8. The binding avidity of the K439E/S440K double mutant was
even slightly increased compared to wild type 7D8 (Table 7C). Mixtures of single mutants
IgGl-7D8-K439E and IgGl-7D8-K440E were able to completely restore C1q binding which
was comparable to C1q binding of wild type 7D8 (Table 7C).
         The discrepancy between the unchanged C1q binding in the ELISA (Example 3) and
the affected C1q binding in the cell-based assay by the IgG1-7D8 mutants, shows that the
tested CH3 positions that are involved in the Fc:Fc interaction between antibody molecules,
do not influence C1q binding directly, but are important determinants that affect the
dynamic positioning of antibody Fc-tails when bound on cells, and thereby also the strength
of the C1q binding.
Table 7A:    KD values for Clq binding to antibody-opsonized Daudi cells (mutants set 1)
     mAb        KB (nM)   KB (nM)    KB (nM)   KB (nM)     KB (nM) KB (nM) Average  sd
                 Exp.1     Exp.2      Exp.3     Exp.4      Exp. 10 Exp. 11 KB (nM)       value*
     7D8          7.7       9.3        4.2       4.3         11.8   13.3     8.4    3.7   na**
  7D8-I253A       33.0     20.4        16.7     15.7                         21.5   8.0   0.007
  7D8-I253Y       58.5     37.0        21.1     48.7                         41.3  16.1   0.001
  7D8-I253D      146.5     176.1      101.7     205.2                       157.4  44.2  <0.001
  7D8-Q311A       14.3     13.0        9.6       5.9                         10.7   3.8   0.379
  7D8-H433A      168.0     76.1        45.2     180.7                       117.5  67.0   0.003
  7D8-N434A       36.7     47.8        28.3     48.7                         42.6   9.7  <0.001
  7D8-H435A       7.8      10.9        5.0      10.9                         8.6    2.8   0.925
  7D8-H435R        5.2      8.7        2.6       3.0                         4.9    2.8   0.147
* Compared to wild type 7D8 (t-test)
** (na) not applicable
Table 7B:    KD values for Clq binding to antibody-opsonized Daudi cells (mutants set 2)

                                                            114
       mAb         KB (nM)    KB (nM)      KB (nM)    KB (nM)     KB (nM)     KB (nM) KB (nM) Average   sd P-value*
                     Exp.5      Exp.6       Exp.7      Exp.8       Exp.9       Exp.10 Exp.11  KB (nM)
   Ofatumumab           6        5.4           4        2.7        12.47         12.8            7.2   4.3  0.6192
        7D8                                                                      11.8   13.3  8.4***   3.7   na**
    7D8-H310K         32.4                                                              216      124   130  0.0371
    7D8-E345R          3.5                   0.17      0.35                      2.7             1.7   1.7  0.0106
    7D8-E382R                    3.5         1.18      1.13                      3.3             2.3   1.3  0.0150
    7D8-G385D                    77                                                      71       74    4  < 0.0001
  7D8-H433D****                (1227)                                                 (2694)  (1961)  1037  0.0013
    7D8-H433R                    5.2         0.72      1.78         5.69         1.6               3   2.3  0.0205
  7D8-Y436C****     (2420)                                                             (128)   (1274) 1621  0.0576
    7D8-Y436D                    431                                                    504      468    52 < 0.0001
    7D8-Q438D         767                                                               667      717   70  < 0.0001
    7D8-K439E                    418                                                    304      361   81  < 0.0001
    7D8-S440K                    170                                                     48      109   87   0.0131
                               10316'                                                   246     5291  7106  0.0681
   I253DH433A
* Compared to wild type 7D8 (t-test)
* (na) not applicable
* Average KD of 7D8 was calculated from experiments 1,2,3,4, 10 and 11.
**** No reliable fitting curve and   KD value could be measured due to too weak binding of these mutants.
Table 7C: KD values for Clq binding to antibody-opsonized Daudi cells (double mutant)
       mAb         KB (nM)    KB (nM)      KB (nM)    KB (nM)     KB (nM)     KB (nM) KB (nM) Average   sd P-value*
                     Exp.5      Exp.6       Exp.7      Exp.8       Exp.9       Exp.10 Exp.11  KB (nM)
        7D8                                                                      11.8   13.3  8.4***   3.7   na**
    7D8-K439E                    418                                                    304      361   81  < 0.0001
    7D8-S440K                    170                                                     48      109   87   0.0131
   K439E/S440K                   4.6         1.63      1.01                      2.9             2.6   1.6  0.0196
   7D8-K439E0+
   7D8-K439Em x                  3.6         3.05                                3.1             3.3   0.3  0.0555
* Compared to wild type 7D8 (t-test)
* (na) not applicable
*** Average KD of 7D8 was calculated from experiments 1,2,3,4, 10 and 11.
Table 8:      KD values for Clq binding to antibody-opsonized Raji cells (mutants set 1)
       mAb        KB (nM)    KB (nM)     KB (nM)    Average      sd       P-value*
                   Exp.1      Exp.2       Exp.3     KB (nM)
       7D8           4.8        7.0        10.9       6.5       3.1         na**
    7D8-I253A       10.0       25.7        20.1       18.6      7.9        0.020
    7D8-I253Y       24.3       45.6        46.2       38.7      12.4       0.001
    7D8-I253D       70.0      172.0        85.2      109.1      55.0       0.005
   7D8-Q311A         4.1       10.1        12.2       9.1       3.5        0.280
   7D8-H433A       124.8       85.0        84.0       97.9      23.3       <0.001
   7D8-N434A        35.9       46.7        35.2      44.9       12.5       <0.001
   7D8-H435A         5.4        9.9         6.6       7.3       2.3        0.721
   7D8-H435R         3.5        6.2         4.5       4.7        1.4       0.721
* Compared to wild type 7D8 (t-test)
** (na) not applicable

                                                115
Example 5
Cla efficacy by 7D8 mutants in a CDC assay on CD20-positive Raji cells
C1q efficacy using cells opsonized with IgG1-7D8 mutants was tested in a CDC assay to
investigate the impact of the observed changes in C1q binding avidity on CDC activity.
Therefore, a CDC assay was performed using C1q-depleted normal human serum that was
supplemented with a defined concentration series of C1q. 0.1     x 106  Raji cells were pre
incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates (Nunc, Rochester, NY) with 10 pg/mL purified
antibody and a concentration series human C1q (0.005, 0.025, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 5.0, 30.0
pg/mL) at RT for 15 min in a total volume of 100 pL RPMI1640 medium, supplemented with
0.1% BSA. Next, 25 pL C1q-depleted serum (Quidel, San Diego, CA) was added and
incubated at 37 0 C in a water bath for 30 min or in an incubator for 45 min. After incubation,
the reaction was stopped by placing the samples on ice. Cell lysis was determined on FACS
by using propidium iodide (PI, Sigma Aldrich, Zwijndrecht, the Netherlands) viable cell
exclusion assay. % lysis was determined as follows: % lysis = (number of PI pos cells/total
number of cells) x 100%.
        The lysis by wild type 7D8 in the presence of 30 pg/mL C1q minus the lysis when no
C1q was added, was set to 100%. CHs 0 values (the C1q concentration resulting in 50%
lysis) were calculated from fitting sigmoidal dose-response curves on log-transformed data
using GraphPad Prism software. CHs0 values of the mutants were normalized to wild type
7D8 (Table 9).
        The data in Table 9 show that, in accordance with the C1q binding avidity
measurements, IgG1-7D8-Q311A, E382R and H435A showed no decrease in C1q efficacy;
1253A, 1253Y, G385D, N434A and Y436C a significant decrease in C1q-efficacy; and 1253D,
H310K, K322A, H433A, H433D, Y436D, Q438D, K439E and S440K almost completely lost
the capacity to induce CDC with all C1q concentrations tested.
        IgGl-7D8-H435R and H433R used C1q slightly more efficient which resulted in more
efficient CDC than wild type 7D8. IgGl-7D8-E345R showed a drastic increase in C1q
efficacy, which resulted in significantly higher CDC lysis compared to wild type 7D8 (Table
9).
        Figure 7 shows that combining the K439E and S440K mutation, which both result in
loss of CDC as a single mutant, restored CDC in the C1q efficacy assay when both mutations
were combined in one molecule (K439E/S440K double mutant) or when both single mutants
were combined (K439E + S440K mix).
Table 9: CH50 for C1q efficacy in a CDC assay on Raji cells
Antibody                  n          Mean CH5o      SD  (2)  Significance (3)
                                    (pg/mL) (2)
IgGl-7D8-WT                8            0.49         0.26           na
IgG1-7D8-I253A              3          11.16        16.31
IgG1-7D8-I253D              3          >30  (4)      0.00           nd
IgG1-7D8-I253Y              3          16.07        12.50

                                                         116
IgG1-7D8-H310K                   3              >30              0.00           nd
IgG1-7D8-Q311A                   3              0.63             0.58           ns
IgG1-7D8-K322A                   6              >30              0.00           nd
IgG1-7D8-E345R                   3              0.03             0.01
IgG1-7D8-E382R                   3              0.77            0.476           ns
IgG1-7D8-G385D                   3             22.51            12.97
IgG1-7D8-H433A                   3              >30              0.00           nd
IgG1-7D8-H433D                   3              >30              0.00           nd
IgGl-7D8-H433R                   3              0.16             0.09           ns
IgG1-7D8-N434A                   3             21.16            15.32
IgG1-7D8-H435A                   3              0.96             0.20           ns
IgGl-7D8-H435R                   3              0.24             0.15           ns
IgG1-7D8-Y436C                   3             23.03            12.07
IgG1-7D8-Y436D                   3              >30              0.00           nd
IgG1-7D8-Q438D                   3              >30              0.00           nd
IgG1-7D8-K439E                   3              >30              0.00           nd
IgG1-7D8-S440K                   3              >30              0.00           nd
IgGl-7D8-                        3              >30              0.00           nd
1253D/H433A
IgGl-7D8-                        3              0.09             0.71           ns
 K439E/S440K
IgG1-7D8-K439E +                 3              1.33             1.48           ns
IgG1-7D8-S440K mix
(1) (n) Number of experiments
(2) Mean and SD were calculated from all performed experiments.
(3) Statistics: 1 way ANOVA on log transformed data using Dunnett's Multiple Comparison Test (GraphPad Prism
 5.01). Significance was calculated in comparison to wild type IgGl-7D8: (na) not applicable (nd) not determined
 (ns) not significant (*) p=0.01 to 0.05 (**) p=0.001 to 0.01 (***) p<0.001.
(4) When lysis did not reach 50%, the CH5o was set to >30 pg/mL.
(5) No P-value could be determined for mutants that did not reach 50% lysis. However, these are assumed to be
significantly different from IgGl-7D8-WT.
 Example 6
CDC by 7D8 mutants in a CDC assay on CD20-positive cells
 0.1 x 106 cells were pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates (Nunc, Rochester, NY)
with antibody concentration series (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 3.0, 10.0, 30.0 pg/mL) in a
total volume of 80 pL for 15 min on a shaker at RT. Next, 20 pL normal human serum was
added as a source of C1q (20% final concentration) and incubated in a 370 C incubator for
45 min. The reaction was stopped by adding 30 pL ice cold RPMI medium, supplemented
with 0.1% BSA. Cell lysis was determined on FACS by using propidium iodide.
           For the CDC assays on Daudi cells, ECs0 values (the antibody concentration resulting
 in 50% lysis) were calculated from fitting sigmoidal dose-response curves on log
transformed data using GraphPad Prism software. ECs0 values of the mutants were
 normalized to wild type 7D8 (Table 10 and Table 11).
           Table 10 shows that on Daudi cells, IgG1-7D8-I253A, Q311A, E382R, H433R and
 H435A showed no difference in CDC compared to wild type 7D8; a significant worse CDC
 (higher ECs 0 ) than wild type 7D8 was found for IgG1-7D8-I253D, 1253Y, H310K, G385D,
 H433A, H433D, N434A, Y436C, Y436D, Q438D, K439E, S440K and 1253D/H433A, which
only induced CDC at higher antibody concentrations; The C1q binding deficient mutant
 IgG1-7D8-K322A, which was included as control, almost completely lost the capacity to
 induce CDC and did not reach ECs 0 at the tested concentrations; IgG1-7D8-H435R showed
 more efficient CDC than wild type 7D8 on Daudi cells. Importantly, in accordance with the
C1q efficacy CDC assay, E345R showed drastically better CDC than wild type 7D8 with a 10-

                                                          117
fold lower ECs0 value on Daudi cells (Table 10). Figure 8 shows that combining the K439E
and S440K mutation, which both result in loss of CDC as a single mutant, restored CDC
when both mutations were combined in one molecule (K439E/S440K double mutant) or
when both single mutants were combined (K439E + S440K mix).
           Table 11 shows that similar data were found for the IgG1-7D8 mutants on Raji cells.
Table 10: ECs 0 calculated from the CDC assay on Daudi cells
Antibody                      n(i)         Mean EC5o            SD   (2)             Significance (3
                                           (pg/mL)   (2)
IgG1-7D8                      12           0.48                 0.11                 na
IgG1-7D8-I253A                4            0.79                 0.15                 ns
IgG1-7D8-I253D                5            3.33                  1.05
IgG1-7D8-I253Y                4            1.77                 0.43
IgG1-7D8-H310K                3            3.03                 0.30
IgGl-7D8-Q311A                4            0.42                 0.12                 ns
IgG1-7D8-K322A                             >30(4)                Nd
IgGl-7D8-E345R                4            0.04                 0.01
IgGl-7D8-E382R                4            0.76                 0.25                 ns
IgG1-7D8-G385D                3            2.12                 0.45
IgG1-7D8-H433A                5            3.44                  1.17
IgG1-7D8-H433D                4            4.73                  2.57
IgGl-7D8-H433R                4            0.33                 0.14                 ns
IgG1-7D8-N434A                4            1.77                 0.46
IgG1-7D8-H435A                4            0.81                 0.27                 ns
IgGl-7D8-H435R                5            0.28                 0.06
IgG1-7D8-Y436C                4            1.90                  1.21
IgG1-7D8-Y436D                3            1.88                 0.45
IgGl-7D8-Q438D                3            2.61                 0.38
IgGl-7D8-K439E                4            2.34                 0.38
IgG1-7D8-S440K                4            1.78                 0.46
IgG1-7D8-I253D/H433A          4            4.77                  1.36
IgGl-7D8-K439E/S440K          4            0.33                 0.08                 ns
IgGl-7D8-K439E +              4            0.48                 0.17                 ns
IgG1S440K
(1) (n) Number of experiments
(2) Mean and SD were calculated from all performed experiments.
(3) Statistics: 1 way ANOVA on log transformed data using Dunnett's Multiple Comparison Test (GraphPad Prism
 5.01). Significance was calculated in comparison to wild type 7D8: (na) not applicable (nd) not determined (ns) not
significant (*) p=0.01 to 0.05 (**) p=0.001 to 0.01 (***) p<0.001.
(4) When lysis did not reach 50%, the EC5o was set to >30 pg/mL.
(5) No P-value could be determined for mutants that did not reach EC5o. However, these are assumed to be
significantly different from wild 7D8-WT.
Table 11: EC 0 calculated from the CDC assay on Raji cells
Antibody                      no')    Mean EC5o        SD (2)   Significance (

                                                         118
                                      (pg/mL) 1
IgG1-7D8                      13      1.54           0.77       Na
IgGl-7D8-I253A                4       5.55           3.19       *
IgGl-7D8-I253D                6       >30 (4         0.00       ***(5)
IgG1-7D8-I253Y                4       28.95          2.09       ***
IgGl-7D8-H310K                2       19.29          15.15      *
IgGl-7D8-Q311A                4       1.72           0.42       Ns
IgG1-7D8-K322A                        >30
IgGl-7D8-E345R                4       0.16           0.09       *
IgGl-7D8-E382R                4       2.96           1.27       Ns
IgG1-7D8-G385D                2       17.40          17.82      *
IgGl-7D8-H433A                6       22.60          9.30       ***
IgG1-7D8-H433D                4       >30            0.00       ***
IgGl-7D8-H433R                4       1.42           0.67       Ns
IgG1-7D8-N434A                4       23.02          6.16       ***
IgGl-7D8-H435A                4       2.22           1.47       Ns
IgGl-7D8-H435R                6       0.61           0.21       **
IgGl-7D8-Y436C                2       11.93          10.13      **
IgGl-7D8-Y436D                2       16.58          3.93       ***
IgGl-7D8-Q438D                2       19.49          14.87      ***
IgGl-7D8-K439E                4       21.51          9.96       *
IgGl-7D8-S440K                4       19.53          12.71      *
IgG1-7D8-I253D/H433A          4       >30            0.00       ***
IgGl-7D8-K439E/S440K          4       1.34           0.45       Ns
IgGl-7D8-K439E +              4       1.58           0.64       Ns
IgG1S440K
(1) (n) Number of experiments
(2) Mean and SD were calculated from all performed experiments.
(3) Statistics: 1 way ANOVA on log transformed data using Dunnett's Multiple Comparison Test (GraphPad Prism
 5.01). Significance was calculated in comparison to wild type 7D8: (na) not applicable (nd) not determined (ns) not
significant (*) p=0.01 to 0.05 (**) p=0.001 to 0.01 (***) p<0.001.
(4) When lysis did not reach CH5o, the CH5o was set to >30 pg/mL.
(5) No P-value could be determined for mutants that did not reach EC5 0 . However, these are assumed to be
significantly different from wild 7D8-WT.
 Example 7
 Ranking of 7D8 mutants according to their capacity to induce CDC
 For the tested 7D8 mutants, a correlation was found between C1q binding on Daudi cells
 (described in Example 4) and C1q efficacy assays on Raji cells (described in Example 5),
and between C1q binding on Daudi cells and CDC assays on Daudi and Raji cells (described
 in Example 6) (correlation data Table 13). Therefore, the KD values of the C1q binding
assays on Daudi cells were used to rank all tested 7D8 mutants according to their capacity
to induce CDC, as shown in Table 12.

                                                             119
Table 12: Ranking of all tested 7D8 mutants according to descending                       KD  values for Clq
binding on Daudi cells, which serve as a representative for their capacity to induce CDC.
                                       Clq binding on Daudi cells
Antibody                               no')    KD  (nM)( 2 )     SD
IgGl-7D8-E345R                         4       1.7               1.7
IgGl-7D8-E382R                         4       2.3               1.3
IgGl-7D8-K439E/S440K                   4       2.6               1.6
IgGl-7D8-H433R                         5       3.0               2.3
IgG1-7D8-K439E + IgG1S440K             3       3.3               0.3
IgGl-7D8-H435R                         3       4.9               2.8
IgG1-7D8-H435A                         3       8.6               2.8
IgG1-7D8                               7       8.7               3.5
IgG1-7D8-Q311A                         3       10.7              3.8
IgG1-7D8-I253A*                        3       21.5              8.0
IgG1-7D8-I253Y*                        3       41.3              16.1
IgG1-7D8-N434A*                        3       42.6              9.7
IgG1-7D8-G385D*                        2       74.0              4.0
IgG1-7D8-S440K*                        2       109.0             87.0
IgG1-7D8-H433A*                        3       117.5             16.1
IgG1-7D8-H310K*                        2       124.0             130.0
IgG1-7D8-I253D*                        3       157.4             44.2
IgG1-7D8-K439E*                        2       361.0             81.0
IgG1-7D8-Y436D*                        2       468.0             52.0
IgG1-7D8-Q438D*                        2       717.0             70.0
IgG1-7D8-Y436C*                        2       (1274.0)          1621.0
IgG1-7D8-H433D*                        2       (1961.0)          1037.0
IgG1-7D8-I253D/H433A*                  2       (5291.0)          7106.0
* No reliable fitting curve. Italicized KD values could not be measured due to too weak binding of these mutants.
Table 13: correlation between Clq binding on Daudi cells (Example 4) and Clq efficacy
assays on Raji cells (Example 5), and between Clq binding on Daudi cells and CDC assays
on Daudi and Raji cells (Example 06). Data were log transformed before the correlation was
analyzed.
Parameter                         Clq efficacy Raji   CDC Raji          CDC Daudi
Number of XY Pairs                21                  21                21
Pearson r                         0.8600              0.8668            0.8959
95% confidence interval           0.6812 to 0.9420 0.6952 to 0.9449 0.7569 to 0.9573
P value (two-tailed)              < 0.0001            < 0.0001          < 0.0001
P value summary
Is the correlation significant?
(alpha=0.05)                      Yes                 Yes               Yes
R squared                         0.7396              0.7513            0.8026

                                               120
Example 8
Design and generation of CD38 antibody 005 mutants
The human monoclonal antibody HuMab 005 is a fully human IgG1,K antibody described in
WO/2006/099875. Here, it was used as a model antibody for validation of the identified Fc
mutations to enhance CDC activity. The tested mutations are listed in Table 14.
          DNA constructs for the different mutants were prepared and transiently transfected
as described in Example 1, using the heavy chain of HuMab 005 with IgG1m(f) allotype as a
template for mutagenesis reactions.
Table 14: set of mutations that were introduced in the CH2-CH3 domain of 005 (HuMax
CD38).
Mutation                Charge     Charge
                        WT aa    mutant aa
1253D
E345R                      -          +
H433A                     6+
K439E                      +
S440K                                 +
(=) no charge
(-) negative charge
(+) positive charge
(6+) partial positive charge
Example 9
CD38 binding on cells by HuMab-005 mutants
Binding of unpurified antibody samples to CD38-positive Daudi and Raji cells was analyzed
by FACS analysis. 109 cells were incubated in 100 pL in polystyrene 96-well round-bottom
plates with serial dilutions of antibody preparations (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 3.0, 10.0,
30.0 pg/mL) in RPMI1640/0.1% BSA at 4*C for 30 min. After washing twice in
RPMI1640/0.1% BSA, cells were incubated in 50 pL with FITC-conjugated rabbit F(ab')        2
anti-human IgG (cat.no. F0056; DAKO; 1:150) at 41C for 30 min. Next, cells were washed
twice in PBS/0.1% BSA/0.02% azide, resuspended in 100 pL PBS/0.1% BSA/0.02% azide
and analyzed on a FACS Cantoll (BD Biosciences). Binding curves were analyzed using
GraphPad Prism V5.01 software. As a negative control, supernatant of mock-transfected
cells was used.
          Binding of HuMab 005 to Daudi cells was not much affected by the introduction of
point mutations in the CH2-CH3 domain. All tested antibodies bound Daudi cells in a dose
dependent manner. Binding was similar to wild type HuMab-005 for all tested mutants, with
the exception of 005-E345R, which showed slightly decreased binding. However, without
being bound by any theory, the lower binding might be a result of decreased binding by the
secondary antibody, analogous to IgG1-7D8-E345 in Example 2. The actual binding avidity
by 005-E345R might be similar or even increased compared 005-WT, however we could not
confirm this because of lack of directly labeled antibodies.

                                               121
         Binding of HuMab-005 to Raji cells was also not much affected by the introduction of
point mutations in the CH2-CH3 domain. All tested antibodies bound Raji cells in a dose
dependent manner. Maximal binding was similar to that of wild type 005 for the 005-I253D
and    H433A mutants and        lower for the 005-E435R,    K439E,   S440K mutants and the
combination of 005-K439E + 005-S440K. However, without being bound by any theory, the
lower binding might be a result of decreased binding by the secondary antibody, analogous
to IgGl-7D8-E345R in example 2 (shielding of the epitope).
Example 10
CDC assay on CD38-positive cells by mutants of the CD38 antibody 005
0.1  x 106  Daudi or Raji cells were pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates with a
concentration series of unpurified antibodies (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 3.0, 10.0, 30.0
pg/mL) in a total volume of 100 pL for 15 min on a shaker at RT. Next, 25 pL normal
human serum was added as a source of C1q (20% final concentration) and incubated in a
37 0 C incubator for 45 min. The reaction was stopped by putting the plates on ice. 10 pL
propidium iodide was added and cell lysis was determined by FACS.
         The CDC enhancing capacity of the E435R mutation, which was shown to enhance
CDC activity of both 7D8 and 005 antibodies on Daudi and Raji cells, was further analyzed
on Wien133 cells with different concentration normal human serum (NHS). 0.1 x        106
Wien133 cells were pre-incubated for 15 min on a shaker at RT in round-bottom 96-well
plates with a concentration series of unpurified antibodies (0.001, 0.003, 0.01, 0.03, 0.1,
0.3, 1.0, 3.0, 10.0, 30.0 pg/mL) in a total volume of 50 pL. Next, NHS was added as a
source of C1q to reach a final concentration of either 20% or 50% NHS in a total volume of
100 pL. The reaction mixture was incubated in a 37 0 C incubator for 45 min. The reaction
was stopped by putting the plates on ice. 10 pL propidium iodide was added and cell lysis
was determined by FACS.
         Identified mutations in the CH2-CH3 region that resulted in either loss or increased
CDC activity for the CD20 antibody 7D8, were found to have the same effect on the 005
antibody recognizing CD38. Figure 9 shows that 005-I253D, H443A, K439E and S440K
showed complete loss of CDC activity on both Daudi (Figure 9A) and Raji (Figure 9B)
cells, whereas the 005-E345R mutant showed strongly enhanced CDC activity on both cell
lines. Comparable to 7D8 data, a combination of 005-K439E + 005-S440K, which both
result in loss of CDC as a single mutant, resulted in restored CDC. Surprisingly, 005-E435R
even strongly induced CDC on Wien133 cells, for which wild type 005 is not capable to
induce killing by CDC (Figure 9C). CDC killing by 005-E345R on Wien133 cells was
observed with both 20% and 50% serum concentrations (Figure 9C). Also on Raji cells,
both 7D8-E345R and 005-E345R showed enhanced CDC in vitro in 50% serum, with similar
efficacy as in 20% serum (Figure 9D).

                                               122
         As the E345R mutation in the CH2-CH3 region resulted in enhanced CDC activity in
both the tested CD20 antibody 7D8 and CD38 antibody 005, the E345R mutation is
considered to be a general antibody modification that can be applied to induce or enhance
CDC.
Example 11
IqG1 antibodies containing the CDC-enhancinq mutation E345R are less sensitive
to inhibition of CDC by Fc binding peptide DCAWHLGELVWCT than wild type
antibodies
By mutating amino acid positions in the hydrophobic patch at the Fc:Fc interface of IgG,
CDC efficacy was found to be either disturbed or enhanced. The involvement of the
interactions at the Fc-Fc interface, and thus possibly the formation of an oligomeric (e.g.,
hexameric ring) structure as observed in the b12 crystal structure, in CDC efficacy was
further explored. Therefore, a 13-residue peptide (DCAWHLGELVWCT (SEQ ID NO:7)) was
used that targets a consensus binding site in the hydrophobic patch region on the surface of
wild type IgG Fc (Delano et al., Science 2000 Feb 18;287(5456):1279-83). Indeed, the
identification of the consensus binding site on the surface of IgG Fc as an adaptive region
that is primed for interaction with a variety of distinct molecules (Delano et al., Science
2000 Feb 18;287(5456):1279-83), is consistent with the identification of the core amino
acids in the hydrophobic patch that are involved in the Fc-Fc interaction in the IgG1 b12
crystal structure (Saphire et al., Science 2001 Aug 10;293(5532):1155-9). Interactions that
are present in all of the binding interfaces are mediated by a shared set of six amino acids
(Met-252, Ile-253, Ser-254, Asn-434,His-435, and Tyr-436), as well as shared backbone
contacts (Delano et al., Science 2000 Feb 18;287(5456):1279-83). Accordingly, the Fc
binding peptide is expected to affect the Fc-Fc interaction and consequently CDC efficacy.
         0.1 x 106 Daudi cells were pre-incubated in 75 pL with 1.0 pg/mL unpurified antibody
in round-bottom 96-well plates for 10 min at room temperature on a shaker. 25 pL of a
concentration series (range 0.06-60 pg/mL final concentration) of the Fc binding peptide
DCAWHLGELVWCT was added to the opsonized cells and incubated for 10 min on a shaker
at RT. Next, 25 pL NHS was added as a source of complement (20% final concentration)
and incubated in a 370 C incubator for 45 min. The reaction was stopped by adding 25 pL ice
cold RPMI medium, supplemented with 0.1% BSA. 15 pL propidium iodide was added and
cell lysis was determined by FACS analysis.
         CDC mediated by wild type 005 (Figure 10A) or 7D8 (Figure 10B) was found to be
inhibited by the Fc-binding peptide DCAWHLGELVWCT in a dose-dependent manner. These
competition data suggest again the involvement of the Fc-Fc interactions at the hydrophobic
patch of IgG in CDC efficacy. The CDC-enhanced IgG1-005-E345R and IgG1-7D8-E345R
mutants were both less sensitive for competition by the Fc-binding peptide compared to

                                                   123
their corresponding wild type antibodies, suggesting that the E345R mutation results in
increased stability of the Fc-Fc interaction, and consequently increased CDC.
Example 12
Antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) of CD38 expressincl cells by
variants of CD38 antibody HuMAb 005
Daudi cells were harvested (5x10     6 cells/ml), washed (twice in PBS, 1200 rpm, 5 min) and
collected in 1 mL RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10% cosmic calf serum (CCS)
(HyClone, Logan, UT, USA), to which 200 pCi 51Cr (Chromium-51; Amersham Biosciences
Europe GmbH, Roosendaal, The Netherlands) was added. The mixture was incubated in a
shaking water bath for 1 hour at 371C. After washing of the cells (twice in PBS, 1200 rpm, 5
min), the cells were resuspended in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10% CCS,
counted by trypan blue exclusion and diluted to a concentration of 1x10 5 cells/mL.
         Meanwhile, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated from fresh
buffy coats (Sanquin, Amsterdam, The Netherlands) using standard Ficoll density
centrifugation according to the manufacturer's instructions (lymphocyte separation medium;
Lonza, Verviers, France). After resuspension of cells in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented
with 10% CCS, cells were counted by trypan blue exclusion and concentrated to 1x10 7
cells/mL.
         For the ADCC experiment, 50 pL      5t Cr-labeled Daudi cells (5.000 cells) were pre
incubated with 15 pg/mL CD38 antibody IgG1-005 or mutant IgGl-005-E345R in a total
volume of 100 pL RPMI medium supplemented with 10% CCS in a 96-well microtiter plate.
After 10 min at RT, 50 pL PBMCs (500.000 cells) were added, resulting in an effector to
target ratio of 100:1. The maximum amount of cell lysis was determined by incubating 50
pL  5 tCr-labeled Daudi cells (5,000 cells) with 100 pL 5% Triton-X100. The amount of
spontaneous lysis was determined by incubating 5,000         5t Cr-labeled Daudi cells in 150 pL
medium, without any antibody or effector cells. The level of antibody-independent cell lysis
was determined by incubating 5,000 Daudi cells with 500,000 PBMCs without antibody.
Subsequently, the cells were incubated 4 hr at 37*C, 5% CO2. To determine the amount of
cell lysis, the cells were centrifuged (1200 rpm, 3 min) and 75 pL of supernatant was
transferred to micronic tubes, after which the released 51Cr was counted using a gamma
counter. The measured counts per minute (cpm) were used to calculate the percentage of
antibody-mediated lysis as follows:
         (cpm sample - cpm Ab-independent lysis)/(cpm max. lysis - cpm spontaneous lysis)x 100%

                                                124
Table 15 shows the calculated EC50 values of IgGl-005-wt and IgGl-005-E345R in the
performed ADCC assay. Four samples were tested. IgGl-005-E345R shows a significant
lower ECs 0 value than IgGl-005-wt of all four tested samples.
Table 15 Calculated EC50 values of the four performed experiments.
 ADCC                          IgGl-005-wt   IgGl-005-E345R
                                     EC50              EC50
  A                                     5,7              1,2
  B                                     8,3              4,0
  C                                   14,1               4,1
  D                                     5,0              0,6
                    average             8,3              2,5  ng/ml
                    SEM                 4,1              1,9
  TTEST             2-tail             P=               0,04
  Factor enhanced                                        3,3  times
Figure 11 shows that compared to wild type antibody HuMab-005, mutant IgG1-005
E345R demonstrated enhanced efficacy of ADCC capacity, being able to induce ADCC at
lower concentrations.
Example 13
FcRn binding and pharmacokinetic analysis of 7D8 mutants compared to wild type
7D8
The neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) is responsible for the long plasma half-life of IgG by
protecting IgG from degradation. After internalization of the antibody, FcRn binds to
antibody Fc regions in endosomes, where the interaction is stable in the mildly acidic
environment (pH 6.0). Upon recycling to the plasma membrane, where the environment is
neutral (pH7.4), the interaction is lost and the antibody is released back into the circulation.
This influences the plasma half-life of IgG.
        The capability of the 7D8 mutant IgGl-7D8-E354R to interact with FcRn from mouse,
cynomolgus monkey and human was tested in an ELISA. All incubations were done at room
temperature. 96 well plates were coated with 5 pg/mL (100 pL/well) recombinantly
produced biotinylated extracellular domain of FcRn (mouse, human or cynomolgus)
(FcRnECDHis-B2M-BIO), diluted in PBST plus 0.2% BSA; 1 hour. Plates were washed 3
times with PBST, and 3-fold serially diluted (in PBST/0.2% BSA, pH 6.0) wild type IgG1-7D8
or IgGl-7D8-E354R was added, and plates were incubated for 1 hour. Plates were washed
with PBST/0.2% BSA, pH 6.0. Goat-anti-human IgG(Fab'2)-HRP (Jackson Immuno
Research, cat no:109-035-097) diluted in PBST/0.2% BSA, pH 6.0 was added, and plates
were incubated for 1 hour. After washing, ABTS was added as substrate and plates were

                                               125
incubated in the dark for 30 minutes. Absorbance was read at 405, using an EL808 ELISA
reader.
        The mice in this study were housed in a barrier unit of the Central Laboratory Animal
Facility (Utrecht, The Netherlands) and kept in filter-top cages with water and food provided
ad libitum. All experiments were approved by the Utrecht University animal ethics
committee.
        To analyse pharmacokinetics of the 7D8 mutants in vivo, SCID mice (C.B-17/IcrCrl
scid-BR, Charles-River) were injected intravenously with 100 pg (5 mg/kg) wild type 7D8,
IgG1-7D8-E354R, -S440K or K322A; 3 mice per group.
         50 pL blood samples were collected from the saphenous vein at 10 minutes, 4 hours,
24 hours, 2 days, 7 days, 14 days and 21 days after antibody administration. Blood was
collected into heparin containing vials and centrifuged for 5 minutes at 10,000 g. Plasma
was stored at - 20*C until determination of mAb concentrations.
         Human IgG concentrations were determined using a sandwich ELISA. Mouse mAb
anti-human IgG-kappa clone MH16 (#M1268, CLB Sanquin, The Netherlands), coated to 96
well Microlon ELISA plates (Greiner, Germany) at a concentration of 2 pg/mL was used as
capturing antibody. After blocking plates with PBS supplemented with 2% chicken serum,
samples were added, serially diluted in ELISA buffer (PBS supplemented with 0.05% Tween
20 and 2% chicken serum), and incubated on a plate shaker for 1 h at room temperature
(RT). Plates were subsequently incubated with goat anti-human IgG immunoglobulin (#109
035-098, Jackson, West Grace, PA) and developed with 2,2'-azino-bis (3
ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS; Roche, Mannheim, Germany). Absorbance was
measured in a microplate reader (Biotek, Winooski, VT) at 405 nm.
         SCID mice were chosen because they have low plasma IgG concentrations and
therefore relatively slow clearance of IgG. This provides a PK model that is very sensitive for
detecting changes in clearance due to diminished binding of the Fcy-part to the neonatal Fc
receptor (FcRn).
         Statistical testing was performed using GraphPad PRISM version 4 (Graphpad
Software).
         Figure 12 shows that both wild HuMab-7D8 and IgG1-7D8-E345R bound well to
mouse, human and cynomolgus FcRn. Binding of IgG1-7D8-E345R was slightly better than
that of wild type 7D8.
         Figure 13 shows the plasma concentrations in time. There was no difference in the
change of plasma concentrations (clearance) over time of wild type HuMab-7D8 versus
either one of IgG1-7D8-E345R, -S440K or K322A.

                                               126
Example 14
Use of the Fc-Fc stabilizing mutation E345R for increased bactericidal activity of
IcG antibodies against bacteria that express Fc-binding surface proteins
The complement cascade system is an important host defense mechanism against
pathogens and can be divided in three different activation routes to recognize pathogens: i)
the antibody-mediated classical pathway, which is activated upon C1q binding to the
pathogen-bound antibody, ii) the lectin and iii) the alternative pathway, in which the
complement system directly recognizes and is triggered by the pathogen in the absence of
antibody. The three pathways converge at the step of C3 cleavage and C3b deposition.
Microorganisms have developed multiple mechanisms of complement evasion, one of which
is mediated by Protein A (Joiner Ann. Rev. Microbiol. (1988) 42:201-30; Foster Nat Rev
Microbiol (2005) Dec;3(12):948-58). Protein A was first identified in the cell wall of
Staphylococcus aureus and is well known for its binding to the Fc region of IgG (Deisenhofer
et al., Biochem (1981) 20, 2361-70; Uhlen et al., J. Biol. Chem (1984) 259,1695-1702). So
far, the antiphagocytotic effect of Protein A and its role in the pathogenesis of S. aureus was
explained by the interaction between Protein A and IgG, which results in an incorrect
antibody orientation to be recognized by the neutrophil Fc receptor (Foster Nat Rev
Microbiol (2005) Dec;3(12):948-58).
        Example 11 shows that CDC mediated by B cell-specific IgG1 antibodies was
inhibited by the competing Fc-binding peptide DCAWHLGELVWCT. The peptide targets the
consensus binding site on IgG Fc that coincides with the binding site for Protein A, Protein G
and rheumatoid factor (Delano et al., Science 2000 Feb 18;287(5456):1279-83). Based on
these data, it is believed that the Protein A-mediated bacterial complement evasion
mechanism could work by competing for Fc binding, resulting in destabilization of the Fc-Fc
interaction of a microbe-specific antibody, and consequently inhibition of antibody-mediated
complement activation. Moreover, Example 11 also shows that B cell-specific IgG1
antibodies containing the CDC-enhancing E345R mutation were less sensitive to inhibition of
CDC by the competing Fc-binding peptide DCAWHLGELVWCT than the parent wild type
antibodies. By extrapolating these results to Fc binding proteins expressed on microbes,
increased stabilization of the IgG1 Fc-Fc interactions by the E345R mutation would make
microbe-specific antibodies less prone to complement inhibition by an escape strategy of the
pathogen via Fc binding competition by microbial surface proteins, such as Protein A.
Consequently, introduction of the E345R mutation in IgG antibodies directed against a
bacterium would result in increased C3b deposition on bacteria and increased bactericidal
activity compared to the parent wild type antibodies.
        As an in vitro measure for complement-mediated bacterial killing, both phagocytosis
by neutrophils and the generation of C3a in the plasma, which coincides with C3b deposition
on the bacteria, can be determined as described below. Indeed, it has been described that

                                                127
C3b deposition on S. aureus results in enhanced phagocytosis and correlates with bacterial
killing (Rooijakkers et. al., Nature Immunology 2005: 6,920-927).
         S. aureus will be labelled with FITC by incubating an exponentially growing bacterial
culture with 100 pg/mL FITC for 1h at 37*C in 0.1 M carbonate buffer (pH 9.6). Human
polymorph nuclear cells (PMN) will be isolated using a Ficoll gradient. FITC-labelled bacteria
will be opsonized with a concentration series of specific antibodies with or without the
mutation E345R. Phagocytosis will be performed in vitro by incubating 1x108 opsonized
FITC-labelled bacteria with human PMN in the presence of 25% IgG-depleted serum as
complement source for 25 min at 37*C in a total volume of 200 pL under vigorous shaking.
The cells will be fixed and erythrocytes lyzed by incubation with BD FACS lysing solution for
15 min at room temperature. After washing, phagocytosis will be measured by FACS. The
neutrophil population will be selected through forward and side scatter gating and
phagocytosis will be expressed as the mean fluorescence in the neutrophil population.
Alternatively, C3a generation will be measured in the samples by ELISA as a measure for
complement activation and C3b deposition.
         It is expected that the S. aureus-specific antibodies containing the E345R mutation
will induce more complement activation and phagocytosis by neutrophils than the parent
wild type antibodies. An example of an antibody that could be used in such experiments is
the chimeric monoclonal IgG1 pagibaximab (BSYX-A110; Biosynexus), targeting
Lipoteichoic acid (LTA) that is embedded in the cell wall of staphylococci (Baker, Nat
Biotechnol. 2006 Dec;24(12):1491-3; Weisman et al., Int Immunopharmacol. 2009
May;9(5):639-44).
Example 15
Use of CDC-inhibitinq mutations that restrict CDC activation to target cells
simultaneously bound by a mixture of two different therapeutic monoclonal
antibodies
As described in Example 6, CD20 antibody 7D8 mutations K439E and S440K decreased the
CDC efficacy as monoclonal antibodies. Mixing 7D8 antibodies containing these mutations
restored CDC. Efficient CDC was thus restricted to cells bound by both mutant antibodies
simultaneously. As described in Example 10, CD38 antibody 005 mutations K439E and
S440K decreased the CDC efficacy as monoclonal antibodies. Mixing 005 antibodies
containing these mutations restored CDC. Efficient CDC was thus restricted to cells bound
by both mutant antibodies simultaneously.
         It can be advantageous to restrict the induction of efficient CDC to target cells that
express two specific antigens simultaneously, exploiting their combined expression to
improve selectivity of CDC induction. To restrict CDC induction to cells bound by both CD20
and CD38 antibodies simultaneously, the pair of 7D8-K439E and 005-S440K or the pair of

                                                  128
7D8-S440K and 005-K439E will be added separately or mixed 1:1 in CDC experiments as
follows. 0.1   x 106 Daudi or Raji cells will be pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates
with a concentration series of unpurified antibodies or antibody mixture (0.01, 0.03, 0.1,
0.3, 1.0, 3.0, 10.0, 30.0 pg/mL) in a total volume of 100 pL for 15 min on a shaker at RT.
Next, 25 pL normal human serum will be added as a source of complement (20% final
concentration) and incubated in a 370 C incubator for 45 min. The reaction will be stopped
by putting the plates on ice. 10 pL propidium iodide will be added and cell lysis will be
determined by FACS. It is expected, that 7D8-K439E, 005-S440K, 7D8-S440K and 005
K439E will display limited CDC efficacy. It is expected, that the simultaneous addition of
7D8-K439E and 005-S440K will restore efficient CDC specifically on cells expressing both
CD20 and CD38. Likewise, it is expected that the mixture of 7D8-S440K and 005-K439E will
restore efficient CDC specifically on cells expressing both CD20 and CD38.
Example 16
Increased specificity of enhanced CDC by combining E345R with complementary
inhibiting mutations K439E and S440K in a mixture of two different monoclonal
antibodies
As described in Example 6, CD20 antibody 7D8 mutations K439E and S440K decreased the
CDC efficacy as monoclonal antibodies. Mixing 7D8 antibodies containing these mutations
restored CDC. Efficient CDC was thus restricted to cells bound by both mutant antibodies
simultaneously. As described in Example 10, CD38 antibody 005 mutations K439E and
S440K decreased the CDC efficacy as monoclonal antibodies. Mixing 005 antibodies
containing these mutations restored CDC. Efficient CDC was thus restricted to cells bound
by both mutant antibodies simultaneously.
         It can be advantageous to restrict the enhancement of CDC induction to target cells
that express two specific antigens simultaneously, exploiting their combined expression to
improve selectivity of enhanced CDC induction. It can also be advantageous to restrict the
enhancement of CDC induction to target cells that are bound by mixtures of at least two
different antibodies simultaneously, said antibodies binding an identical cell surface antigen
at two different epitopes simultaneously, or at two cross-competing, similar, or identical
epitopes.
        Therefore, to restrict enhanced CDC induction to cells bound by both CD20 and CD38
antibodies simultaneously, the CDC enhancing mutation E345R was combined with CDC
inhibiting mutations in the antibodies 7D8-E345R/K439E, 7D8-E345R/S440K, 005
E345R/S440K and 005-E345R/K439E. These antibodies were added separately or mixed 1:1
in CDC experiments as follows. 0.1      x 106  Wien133 cells (other cell types such as Daudi or
Raji cells may also be used) were pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates with a
concentration series of unpurified antibodies (final concentration 0.056-10,000 ng/mL in 3 -

                                                 129
fold dilutions for 7D8-E345R/K439E, 7D8-E345R/S440K, 005-E345R/S440K or 005
E345R/K439E) or antibody mixtures (final concentrations 0.01 pg/mL CD20 antibody mixed
with 0-333 ng/mL in 3-fold dilutions CD38 antibody; or 3.3 pg/mL CD38 antibody mixed
with 0.0056-1,000 ng/mL in 3-fold dilutions CD20 antibody) in a total volume of 100 pL for
15 min on a shaker at RT. Next, 25 pL normal human serum was added as a source of
complement (20% final concentration) and incubated in a 37 0 C incubator for 45 min. The
reaction was stopped by putting the plates on ice. 10 pL propidium iodide was added and
cell lysis was determined by FACS.
         A concentration series of 005-E345R/K439E or 005-E345R/S440K antibody was
mixed with a fixed concentration of 0.01 pg/mL 7D8 double mutant antibody (maximal
concentration with minimal CDC on Wien133 cells as a single agent as determined from
Figure 14A) to make the complementary combinations 005-E345R/K439E + 7D8
E345R/S440K or 005-E345R/S440K + 7D8-E345R/K439E. Figure 14C shows that the 005
double mutant CD38 antibodies induced CDC dose-dependently in the presence of fixed
concentration of the complementary 7D8-E345R/K439E or 7D8-E345R/S440K CD20
antibody, respectively. The CDC efficacy by these complementary combinations (Figure
14C) was comparable to the 005-E345R single mutant (enhancer) antibody as a single
agent (Figure 14B). In contrast, in the presence of irrelevant antibody b12, both 005
E345R/K439E and 005-E345R/S440K showed hardly any CDC in the concentration series
tested (comparable to 005-E345R/K439E or 005-E345R/S440K as single agents shown in
Figure 14B).
         A concentration series of 7D8-E345R/K439E or 7D8-E345R/S440K antibody was
mixed with a fixed concentration of 3.3 pg/mL 005 double mutant antibody (showing a little
but limited CDC on Wien133 cells as a single agent as determined from Figure 14B) to
make the complementary combinations 7D8-E345R/K439E + 005-E345R/S440K or 7D8
E345R/S440K + 005-E345R/K439E. Figure 14D shows that the 7D8 double mutant CD20
antibodies induced CDC very efficiently in the presence of the complementary 005
E345R/K439E or 005-E345R/S440K CD38 antibody respectively, even at the lowest
concentrations tested, resembling not more than a few 7D8 double mutant antibody
molecules per cell. To eliminate the contribution of increased Fc-tail density on the cell
membrane to the observed enhanced CDC by the mixture of 7D8 and 005 antibodies with
complementary K439E and S440K mutations, also antibody combinations with non
complementary mutations were tested. Figure 14D shows that non-complementary
combinations showed much lower CDC efficacy than complementary combinations, as a
result of less efficient Fc-Fc interaction than the complementary combinations.
         These data suggest that the induction of (enhanced) CDC by therapeutic antibodies
can be limited to cells that bind simultaneous a mixture of two complementary antibodies,

                                                130
in this case with different antigen specificities, thereby increasing target cell specificity by
requiring co-expression of both antigens.
        As can be seen in Figure 14A and 14B, 7D8-E345R/K439E, 005-E345R/S440K,
7D8-E345R/S440K and 005-E345R/K439E displayed limited CDC efficiency in comparison to
7D8-E345R alone. It is further seen, that the mixture of 7D8-E345R/K439E and 7D8
E345R/S440K enabled CDC with enhanced efficiency compared to wildtype 7D8 antibody as
single agent. Likewise, it was observed that the mixture of 005-E345R/K439E and 005
E345R/S440K enabled CDC with enhanced efficiency compared to wildtype 005 antibody as
single agent (data not shown).
Example 17
Use of CDC-inhibitinci mutations that restrict efficient CDC activation to antibody
complexes exclusively consisting of therapeutically administered antibodies
        As described in Example 6, the CD20 antibody 7D8 double mutant K439E/S440K
restored the CDC efficiency diminished by K439E or S440K single point mutants. As
described in Example 10, the CD38 antibody 005 double mutant K439E/S440K restored the
CDC efficiency inhibited by K439E or S440K single point mutants. As observed, the single
point mutations disrupt the Fc:Fc interaction with the unmutated amino acid on the facing
side of the Fc:Fc interface. Introduction of the compensatory mutation on the facing side of
the Fc:Fc interface restored CDC efficiency. Efficient CDC was thus apparently restricted to
antibody complexes exclusively constisting of antibodies containing both mutations.
        In another example, the induction of CDC is restricted to antibody complexes
exclusively consisting of therapeutically administered antibodies. To restrict CDC induction
to cells bound by therapeutically CD20 or by CD38 antibodies exclusively, the CDC inhibiting
mutations K439E and S440K will be combined in the antibodies 7D8-K439E/S440K or 005
K439E/S440K. These antibodies will be added separately in CDC experiments in the absence
or presence of non-target specific IgG as follows. 0.1    x 106 Daudi or Raji cells will be pre
incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates with a concentration series of unpurified
antibodies or antibody mixture (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 3.0, 10.0, 30.0 pg/mL) in a total
volume of 100 pL for 15 min on a shaker at RT. Next, 25 pL normal human serum will be
added as a source of complement (20% final concentration) and incubated in a 37 0 C
incubator for 45 min. The reaction will be stopped by putting the plates on ice. 10 pl
propidium iodide will be added and cell lysis will be determined by FACS.
        It is expected, that 7D8-K439E/S440K will induce CDC with efficiency similar to
wildtype 7D8 antibody. Addition of non-specific IgG to 7D8-K439E/S440K is expected not to
affect the efficiency of CDC induction for this antibody. Likewise, it is expected that 005
K439E/S440K will enable CDC with efficiency similar to wildtype HuMAb 005. Addition of

                                                 131
non-specific IgG to 005-K439E/S440K is expected not to affect the efficiency of CDC
induction for this antibody.
Example 18
Use of CDC-inhibitinq mutations that restrict enhanced CDC activation to antibody
complexes exclusively consisting of therapeutically administered antibodies
        As described in Example 6, the CD20 antibody 7D8 double mutant K439E/S440K
restored the CDC efficiency diminished by K439E or S440K single point mutants. As
described in Example 10, the CD38 antibody HuMAb 005 double mutant K439E/S440K
restored the CDC efficiency inhibited by K439E or S440K single point mutants. As observed,
the single point mutations disrupt the Fc:Fc interaction with the unmutated amino acid on
the facing side of the Fc:Fc interface. Introduction of the compensatory mutation on the
facing side of the Fc:Fc interface restored CDC efficiency. Efficient CDC was thus apparently
restricted to antibody complexes exclusively constisting of antibodies containing both
mutations.
        In another example, the enhancement of CDC induction is restricted to antibody
complexes exclusively consisting of therapeutically administered antibodies. By screening
and selection of mutations that stimulate the Fc:Fc interaction exploited for CDC
stimulation, one could identify mutations that can form CDC-inducing antibody complexes
with serum antibodies not specific for the antigen target of interest. To restrict enhanced
CDC induction to cells bound by complexes of CD20 or by CD38 antibodies exclusively, the
CDC enhancing mutation E345R will be combined with CDC inhibiting mutations in the
antibodies 7D8-E345R/K439E/S440K or 005-E345R/K439E/S440K. These antibodies will be
added separately in CDC experiments in the absence or presence of non-target specific IgG
as follows. 0.1  x 106 Daudi or Raji cells will be pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates
with a concentration series of unpurified antibodies or antibody mixture (0.01, 0.03, 0.1,
0.3, 1.0, 3.0, 10.0, 30.0 pg/mL) in a total volume of 100 pL for 15 min on a shaker at RT.
Next, 25 pL normal human serum will be added as a source of complement (20% final
concentration) and incubated in a 370 C incubator for 45 min. The reaction will be stopped
by putting the plates on ice. 10 pl propidium iodide will be added and cell lysis will be
determined by FACS.
        It is expected that 7D8-E345R/K439E/S440K will induce CDC with enhanced
efficiency compared to wildtype HuMAb 7D8. Addition of non-specific IgG to 7D8
E345R/K439E/S440K is expected not to affect the efficiency of CDC induction compared to
wildtype 7D8 antibody. Likewise, it is expected that the 005-E345R/K439E/S440K will
enable CDC with enhanced efficiency compared to wildtype 005 antibody. Addition of non
specific IgG to 005-E345R/K439E/S440K is expected not to affect the efficiency of CDC
induction relative to wildtype 005 antibody.

                                               132
Example 19
Use of a mutant screening approach to identify mutations stimulating Fc:Fc
interaction mediated antibody oligomerization detected by a CDC assay
As described in Examples 6 and 10, amino acid mutations were identified that stimulated
CDC for antibodies recognizing two different target antigens, CD20 and CD38, on multiple
cell lines expressing variable levels of said antigens. Surprisingly, the single point mutation
E345R proved sufficient to endow CDC-dependent cell lysis of Wien133 cells to the anti
CD38 antibody 005, which failed to lyse these cells by CDC in wild type IgG1 format.
         Other mutations on or at the periphery of the Fc:Fc interface could stimulate
oligomerization and CDC in an analogous fashion. Alternatively, mutations could indirectly
stimulate oligomerization, for example by allosterically inducing Fc:Fc interactions.
         To determine if other amino acid mutations could stimulate Fc-mediated antibody
oligomerization, a library of anti-CD38 IgG1-005 mutants was screened using CDC assays,
both individually and mixed in a pairwise fashion to select for example amino acid pairs
interacting across the Fc:Fc interface. However, the same strategy can be applied to other
antibodies, such as another IgG1 or an IgG3 antibody.
         A focused library of mutations at the positions indicated in Table 15 was generated.
Mutations were introduced into the IgG1-005 Fc region using the Quikchange site-directed
mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, US). Briefly, for each desired mutation position, a forward and
a reverse primer encoding a degenerate codon at the desired location were used to replicate
full length plasmid DNA template of the 005 heavy chain with IgGlm(f) allotype. The
resulting DNA mixtures were digested using DpnI to remove source plasmid DNA and used
to transform E. coli. Resulting colonies were pooled and cultured and plasmid DNA was
isolated from these pools and retransformed into E. coli to obtain clonal colonies. Mutant
plasmid DNA isolated from resulting colonies was checked by DNA sequencing (LGC
genomics, Berlin, Germany). Expression cassettes were amplified from plasmid DNA by PCR
and DNA mixes containing both a mutant heavy and a wildtype light chain of IgG1-005 were
transiently transfected to Freestyle HEK293F cells (Invitrogen, US) using 293fectin
(Invitrogen, US) essentially as described by the manufacturer. Supernatants of transfected
cells containing antibody mutants were collected. Mutant antibody supernatants were
screened in CDC assays both individually and in pairwise mixtures as follows.
         0.1 x 106 Daudi or Wien-133 cells (other cells types such as Raji cells may be used)
were pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates with 1.0 ug/ml of unpurified antibodies
in a total volume of 100 pL for 15 min on a shaker at RT. Next, 30 pL normal human serum
was added as a source of complement (30% final concentration) and incubated in a 370 C
incubator for 45 min. The reaction was stopped by putting the plates on ice. 10 pl propidium
iodide was added and cell lysis was determined by FACS.

                                                 133
         Mutations described in Table 16, Table 17 and Table 18 were selected for their ability
to enhance oligomerization as detected by CDC efficiency, either as a single mutant or when
mixed with other mutants for example facing the mutation across the Fc:Fc interface.
Mutations can optionally be further screened for their ability to not compromise FcRn,
Protein-A or Protein-G binding, ADCC, ADCP or other effector functions mediated by the Fc
domain. Combining such stimulating point mutations into one Fc domain can stimulate
oligomerization and CDC efficiency even further.
         Mutations in the CH2-CH3 region incorporated in the CD38 antibody 005 were tested
for their ability to inhibit oligomerization as determined by CDC on Daudi cells. Lysis of the
mutant antibody was compared to wild type 005, for which lysis was set to 100%. The cut
off for inhibition was set to 5 66% lysis. Measured in this way, most of the tested mutations
inhibited CDC (see Table 16).
         Mutations in the CH2-CH3 region incorporated in the CD38 antibody 005 were tested
for their ability to enhance oligomerization as determined by CDC on Wien133 cells (Table
17). Wild type CD38 antibody 005 is not able to induce CDC on Wien133 cells. Mutants
displaying 39% cell lysis were scored as enhancing. Completely unexpectedly, virtually all
obtained substitutions of amino acids E345 and E430 stimulated cell lysis by CDC. To verify
this result, amino acids E345, E430 and S440 were substituted with each possible mutation
by site directed mutagenesis and tested for their ability to enhance oligomerization as
determined by CDC of Wien133 cells using a new human serum batch, yielding slightly more
efficient lysis (Table 18). Again, all substitutions of E345 and E430 induced efficient CDC of
Wien133 cells.
        The following preferred mutations caused >39% cell lysis of Wien133 cells: P247G,
1253V, S254L, Q311L, Q311W, E345A, E345C, E345D, E345F, E345G, E345H, E3451,
E345K, E345L, E345M, E345N, E345P, E345Q, E345R, E345S, E345T, E345V, E345W,
E345Y, D/E356G, D/E356R, T359R, E382L, E382V, Q386K, E430A, E430C, E430D, E430F,
E430G, E430H, E430I, E430L, E430M, E430N, E430P, E430Q, E430R, E430S, E430T,
E430V, E430W, E430Y, Y4361, S440Y and S440W.

      7\
      Ar
           Lfl 7\
           Ar Ar
                       '
                         *
                        Ar
                               -<Z l
                               A r A A l
                                          z
                                               w
                                                m     fli   m H0
                                                            w
                                                                             fl     'o       w Ll
                                                                                                r'i
                                                                                                             7-0
                                                                                                          rji o
                                                                                                                  -a         0       0
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                    oJ
          0r
         (D
                frl   w
                     j0 0-, 0 mU
                                 w~ A w oo      oo    00      fl      m      Ul
                                                                         j 0 W,
                                                                                               n    w A r
                                                                                                            J T.
                                                                                                                     =
                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                             MD
 (D  -        -        -    -       -      -       -           -     -          -         -        -                (D    (
                        _                                                                                              n         p         c
                              (D                          >                       m
                                                                            -00 -00           A0        -r,
                                                                                                                          5'I
                                                                                                                    2-    c
                                                                                                                    oJ    m
                                            0D       zi       2      -     -CC
                                                                           0                 -r         'D          U10   a
                                                                    li~~~
                                                                       im                               W(          m              fl
                    0wLf         Ul       m    U')               --    i          G)     ~              G)
                                                                                                         0r               0
                                                                                                                    (D
                                                                                                                     -       j     0
                                                                                       LD~~(                CC    mr)
                           (A                                                                                                            (
3J                                    10                                                                                           (     (D
D                                                                                                      0
                        00                                                                                                         -h
                                                                                                                           ()
                                                                                                                          0)       U
                                                                                                                   -)     E-               o
          ;a                           Ln                                                                            07\
                           (D                                                                        A0'                 -~        (AD~..
                                                                                                       CC   Ha                         _        - W
                                                                                                       m                           (     O
          Ha                                                                 22)                       CCa               (0         <i
                                                                                                                          (D       (n
           0o                                                              70     ;                     ;       ,                        o,
    (nu                                                                                                                            ccD
                                                                                                                          (D,            3D
                                                                                                                           03
                          (Dn                                                                                                                       0J f
                                                                                                                               (D (D
                              00
                                                                                                                          (D
                                                                                                                               oJ
                                                                                                                                   (     (D

Lo
   -P,-
         7
           -P, -
                 -<   2
                      -P     -P,     W
                                         C)
                                           W
                                                  fli
                                                  W
                                                         HO
                                                         W     --
                                                                     M
                                                                       W        W  W     rNj
                                                                                                 -1 M e
                                                                                                 L      NJ
                                                                                                           m L
                                                                                                            0I
                                                                                                                 ; -0    -  ~
                                                                                                                            oj
                                                                                                                                  -o     0C
                                                                                                                                           r)1*
                                                                                                                                                0-    I
            ~n    a~ -~     0      M      U,      NJ     0D     W      UL 9       0    -         ,   -     m           O          t        t
                                                                                                                           (D(
                                 NJ   ~---~fi(D             W
                                         >        J    -n       O) >~         >                                       (f    >J          >M
                                                        -n~                              -n
   'i  -m                          ,             ~              HI            C                        n              (D                   (D'
                                                                                                                       D         oj
                                                                                                                                (D
                                       LO~~~~D                r--
                                                              r        n      M          )     7                                                    -.
                         C)=)      C)     n -<n <             <                                                                            3'
                                                                           0
                          '          ~ ~                 ~                 ~      'a~~w~N                               j        O
                                                                         -      n                     -n              o
                                               NJj                   NJj                       z i     0,               oJ       3.
                                                                       -j                                                                            w
               2)                                                                      -0       2                ~                                  M
                                                                                                                                 0J                            - r1
                                                        eo                                                                                         (D
                                                                                                                                                D
                                           ID                                                                                               0      (D
                                                                                                               0                (D
                            P3~~(                                      om                    D
                                                      Lo~~-
                                                                   - w
                                                                              r-r
                                                                                  ~      7,-                                    0J
                                                                                                                                 =)          =r         3
                                  (3                                  <      H-                      Hr                        -
                                                           H2                                                                              <
                                                                                    NJ<-                                                   (D
                                                                                                                                 D           (D      0
                                                                                                                                  -h (D                   01 (
                                                                                                                                     (D (n
                                                                                                                                      -.

                                    0          1--      -1
 w    m         m   -0
                   -~    . -      r)
        -~       U
        n      n                        (D           rt
                           o     (          (D
                                  fi
                                  U)
                                  a-        n
                                                 D
              ~            -I     - 11 (            'I
  mf
                            0       tu        0~       (D
                           o      3D
                                 a          (       (D
                                              -ho
          in"E
                              (A              --    (D
                                    -    0     CD-   n
                U:
                              (D      j     C          (D
                                  =,.               ()
              -M      -I                    0        D
                                            oj
                                                           ON
            o=r
                                    )--h           (D D
                                  *         w        D)
                                 (D         c.
                                        D -    (
                                 (D         Ca
                                            U        D)
                                            3w
                                 (D
                                 (D           =F       D.
                                 0-         (
                                  aj        0         0
                                          ~(D
                                  ~D
                                 C-(D               (D
                                 (D          D      (D(
                                        C) (D
0    li     U

                                              137
Example 20
In vivo efficacy of IgG1-7D8-E345R in a subcutaneous B cell lymphoma
xenograft model
           The in vivo anti-tumor efficacy of the IgGl-7D8-E345R antibody was
evaluated in a subcutaneous model with Raji-luc #2D1 cells. These cells show
 ~300,000 CD20 molecules per cell (determined by QIFIKIT analysis, data not shown)
and high complement defense receptor expression. Cells were cultured in RPMI with
 10% cosmic calf serum (HyClone, Logan, UT), penicillin and streptomycin, 1% (v/v)
sodium Pyruvate and 1 pg/mL puromycin (P-8833, Sigma, Zwijndrecht). Cells were
harvested in log-phase (approximately 70% confluency). Six to eleven weeks old
female SCID mice (C.B-17/IcrPrkdc-scid/CRL) were used (Charles-River). At day 0,
5x10 6 Raji-luc #2D1 cells in 200 pL PBS were subcutaneously injected in the right
flank of each mouse. The tumor development was monitored by caliper
                                                              3
measurement. When average tumor volume was 100 mm               (around day 7), the mice
were sorted into groups (n=9) and treated by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of a
single dose of 50 pg antibody per mouse (2.5 mg/kg). All antibody samples were
supplemented with irrelevant antibody b12 to obtain a total antibody concentration
of 0.5 mg/mL. Treatment groups are shown in Table 18. Seven days after treatment,
blood samples were obtained to determine human IgG serum levels to check correct
antibody administration. Tumors were measured at least twice per week using
caliper (PLEXX) until an endpoint tumor volume of 1500 mm 3 , tumors showed
ulcerations or until serious clinical signs were observed.
Table 18: Treatment groups and dosing.
Group                             Antibody                Dose
 1. wild type                     IgG1-7D8-WT             50 pg (= 2.5 mg/kg)
2. CDC-enhancing mutant           IgGl-7D8-E345R          50 pg (= 2.5 mg/kg)
3. Irrelevant Ab control          IgG1-b12                50 pg (= 2.5 mg/kg)
           Figure 15A shows mean tumor growth on day 22, when all groups were still
complete. Wild type antibody IgG1-7D8 slightly inhibited tumor growth compared to
negative control antibody IgG1-b12, although this was not statistically significant.
Only IgG1-7D8-E345R inhibited tumor growth significantly compared to the negative
control antibody IgG1-b12 (one-way ANOVA analysis p< 0.01).
           Figure 15B shows a Kaplan-Meier plot of the percentage mice with tumor
sizes smaller then 700 mm 3. Compared to mice treated with negative control

                                           138
antibody IgG1-b12, tumor formation was significantly delayed in mice treated with
IgG1-7D8-E345R antibody (Mantel-Cox analysis p< 0.01), but not in mice treated
with wild type IgGl-7D8.
These data show that the E345R mutation enhanced the in vivo anti-tumor efficacy
of the CD20 antibody 7D8.
Example 21
In vivo efficacy of IgG1-005-E345R in a subcutaneous B cell lymphoma
xenograft model
        The in vivo anti-tumor efficacy of the IgG1-005-E345R antibody was
evaluated in a subcutaneous model with Raji-luc #2D1 cells. These cells show
 -150,000 CD38 molecules per cell (determined by QIFIKIT analysis, data not shown)
and high complement defense receptor expression. The protocol for tumor
inoculation and measurement is basically the same as described in Example 20. At
             6
day 0, 5x10    Raji-luc #2D1 cells in 200 pL PBS were s.c. injected in the right flank of
SCID mice. When average tumor volume was 100 mm 3 (around day 7), the mice
were sorted into groups (n=7) and treated by i.p. injection of a single dose of 500 pg
antibody per mouse (25 mg/kg). Treatment groups are shown in Table 19. Tumors
were measured until an endpoint tumor volume of 1500 mm 3 or until tumors showed
ulcerations or serious clinical signs were observed to avoid major discomfort.
        Figure 16A shows mean tumor growth on day 21, when all groups were still
complete. Wild type antibody IgG1-005 slightly inhibited tumor growth, although this
was not statistically significant. Only IgG1-005-E345R significantly inhibited tumor
growth compared to the irrelevant antibody control at day 21 (One-way ANOVA p<
0.05).
        Figure 16B shows a Kaplan-Meier plot of the percentage mice with tumor
sizes smaller then 500 mm 3. Tumor formation was significantly delayed in mice
treated with IgG1-005-E345R antibody compared to mice treated with negative
control antibody IgG1-b12 (Mantel-Cox analysis p<0.001) or wild type IgG1-005
(p<0.05).
These data show that introduction of the E345R mutation in the CD38 antibody 005
resulted in enhanced in vivo anti-tumor activity.
Table 19: Treatment groups and dosing.
Group                           Antibody                Dose

                                             139
1. wild type                     IgGl-005-WT              500 pg (= 25 mg/kg)
2. CDC-enhancing mutant          IgG1-005-E345R            500 pg (= 25 mg/kg)
3. Irrelevant Ab control         IgG1-b12                  500 pg (= 25 mg/kg)
Example 22
Monovalent target binding further enhances                the CDC efficacy of E345R
antibodies
          A molecular surface of the IgG1 hexameric ring observed in the b12 crystal
structure demonstrates that for each IgG in the hexameric ring, one of the two C1q
binding sites is facing upwards and the other site is facing downwards of the ring
structure, and also one Fab-arm of each antibody is oriented up and one is oriented
down, resulting in only one Fab-arm per antibody to take part in antigen binding,
suggesting monovalent binding per antibody molecule in the hexameric antibody
ring. Monovalency might bring antibodies upon antigen binding in a hexamerization
compatible orientation. To test this hypothesis, the CDC efficacy of a bispecific
CD38/EGFR antibody with the E345R mutation was tested on CD38-positive, EGFR
negative Wien133 cells, to which this bispecific antibody can only bind monovalently
via CD38, and compared to the CDC efficacy of the bivalent binding CD38 antibody,
also with the E345R mutation. The human monoclonal antibody HuMax-EGFr (2F8,
described in WO 2004/056847) was used as a basis for the EGFR antibodies
described in this example.
                                                                                 TM
          Bispecific antibodies were generated in vitro according to the DuoBody
platform, i.e. 2-MEA-induced Fab-arm exchange as described in WO 2011/147986.
The basis for this method is the use of complementary CH3 domains, which promote
the formation of heterodimers under specific assay conditions. To enable the
production of bispecific antibodies by this method, IgG1 molecules carrying certain
mutations in the CH3 domain were generated: in one of the parental IgG1 antibody
the F405L mutation, in the other parental IgG1 antibody the K409R mutation. To
generate bispecific antibodies, these two parental antibodies, each antibody at a final
concentration of 0.5 mg/mL, were incubated with 25 mM 2-mercaptoethylamine-HCI
(2-MEA) in a total volume of 100 pL TE at 37 0 C for 90 min. The reduction reaction is
stopped when the reducing agent 2-MEA is removed by using spin columns (Microcon
centrifugal filters, 30k, Millipore) according to the manufacturer's protocol.
          For the CDC assay, 0.1 x 106 Wien133 cells were pre-incubated in round
bottom 96-well plates with a concentration series of antibodies (0.01 to 10.0 pg/mL)
in a total volume of 100 pL for 15 min on a shaker at RT. Next, 25 pL normal human

                                            140
serum was added as a source of complement (20% final concentration) and
incubated in a 37 0 C incubator for 45 min. The reaction was stopped by putting the
plates on ice. 10 pL propidium iodide was added and cell lysis was determined by
FACS.
         Figure 17 shows that, as expected, CD38 antibodies without the E345R
mutation (wild type IgG1-005 and IgG-b12-K409R x IgGl-005-F405L) did not induce
killing of Wien133 cells. Also the EGFR antibody IgG1-2F8-E345R/F405L, that did not
bind the EGFR-negative Wien133 cells (data not shown), did not induce CDC, as
expected. The introduction of the K409R mutation did not influence the capacity of
the IgG1-005-E345R antibody to induce ~60% killing on Wien133 cells (described in
Example 10). Interestingly, the bispecific CD38/EGFR antibody IgG1-005
E345R/K409R x IgG1-2F8-E345R/F405L, which can only bind monovalently to the
CD38-positive, EGFR-negative Wien133 cells, showed increased maximal CDC killing
(from ~60% to ~100% killing).
         These data show that monovalent targeting can further enhance the maximal
killing capacity of antibodies containing the CDC enhancing E345R mutation.
Furthermore, these data show that the E345R oligomerization enhancing mutation,
as measured by enhancing CDC activity, can be applied to other antibody formats,
such as DuoBody.
Example 23
The oligomerization enhancing E345R mutation can be applied to other
antibody formats such as DuoBodyTM
         The effect of the E345R mutation was tested in a bispecific antibody of the
DuoBody format. CDC assays were performed with CD20/CD38 bispecific antibodies
on CD20-positive, CD38-positive Wien133 and Raji cells.
         Bispecific antibodies were generated as described in Example 22. For the CDC
assay, 0.1 x   106  Wien133 or Raji cells were pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well
plates with a concentration series of antibodies (0.01 to 30.Opg/mL) in a total
volume of 100 pL for 15 min on a shaker at RT. Next, 25 pL normal human serum
was added as a source of complement (20% final concentration) and incubated in a
37 0 C incubator for 45 min. The reaction was stopped by putting the plates on ice. 10
pL propidium iodide was added and cell lysis was determined by FACS.
         Figure 18 shows that introduction of the E345R mutation enhanced CDC of
the bispecific IgG1-005-F405L x IgG1-7D8-K409R antibody on Wien 133 (Figure

                                             141
18A) and Raji (Figure 18B) cells. These data show that the E345R oligomerization
enhancing mutation can be applied to other antibody formats to enhance CDC
activity.
Example 24
E345R rescues CDC by EGFR antibody 2F8, which can be further enhanced
by monovalent target binding
         As described in Examples 6, 10 and 26, E345R enhanced or rescued CDC for
antibodies recognizing different hematological tumor targets (CD20 and CD38). To
extend the analysis to a solid tumor antigen, the effect of E345R on the CDC capacity
of the EGFR antibody 2F8 was tested on A431 epidermoid carcinoma cells.
Furthermore, the effect of monovalent EGFR targeting on E345R-mediated CDC
induction was tested using a bispecific EGFRxCD20 antibody (IgG1-2F8-E345R/F405L
x IgG1-7D8-E345R/K409R) on EGFR-positive, CD20-negative A431 cells.
         Bispecific antibodies were generated as described in Example 22. For the CDC
                                                            51
assay, 5 x   106  A431 cells/mL were labeled with 100 pCi     Cr for 1h at 37 0 C. Cells
were washed three times with PBS and resuspended in medium at a concentration of
1x   105 cells/mL. 25,000 labeled cells were incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates
with a concentration series of unpurified antibodies (0-30 pg/mL in 3-fold dilutions)
in a total volume of 100 pL for 15 min at RT. Next, 50 pL normal human serum
dilution was added as a source of complement (25% final concentration) and
incubated in a 37 0 C incubator for 1h. Cells were spun down (3 min at 300xg) and 25
pL supernatant was added to 100 pL microscint in a white 96 well optiplate
                                                                     51
(PerkinElmer) for incubation on a shaker (750 rpm) for 15 min.         Cr release was
determined as counts per minute (cpm) on a scintillation counter. Maximum lysis
                                   51
(100%) was determined by the         Cr level measured in the supernatant of Triton X
                                                                 51
100-treated cells. Spontaneous lysis was determined by the         Cr level measured in
the supernatant of cells incubated without antibody. Specific cell lysis was calculated
according to the formula: Specific lysis = 100 x (cpm sample - cpm spont) / (cpm
max - cpm spont).
         Figure 19 shows that IgG1-2F8-E345R/F405L is able to lyse A431 cells by
CDC, whereas wild type 2F8 is not capable of killing A431 cells. These data show that
CDC activity can be rescued in the EGFR antibody 2F8 by introduction of the E345R
mutation. This potentially extends the applicability of the CDC enhancing E345R
mutation to antibodies targeting solid tumor antigens.

                                            142
        Bispecific EGFRxCD20 antibody IgG-2F8-E345R/F405L x IgGl-7D8
E345R/K409R, showed further enhancement of CDC on the EGFR-positive, CD20
negative A431 cells.
        These data further support the hypothesis that monovalency facilitates the
formation of Fc-Fc interactions and subsequent CDC induction as postulated for a
CD38 binding antibody described in Example 22.
Example 25
E345R enhances or rescues CDC by CD38 antibody 003 and CD20 antibodies
11B8 and rituximab
        As described in Examples 6, 10 and 24, E345R enhances or induces CDC
activity of several antibodies with different target specificities (CD20, CD38 and
EGFR), as was tested on multiple cell lines expressing variable levels of said
antigens. Therefore, introduction of the E345R mutation was considered to be a
general mechanism to enhance or rescues CDC for existing antibodies. To further
support this, the effect of the E345R mutation on CDC was tested for more
antibodies with variable intrinsic CDC efficacy on Daudi and Wien133 cells: CD38
antibody 003, described in WO 2006/099875 and CD20 antibodies rituximab (type I)
and 11B8 (type II), described in WO 2005/103081. CD20 antibodies can be divided
in two subgroups (Beers et al. Seminars in Hematology 47, (2) 2010, 107-114).
Type I CD20 antibodies display a remarkable ability to activate complement and elicit
CDC by redistributing the CD20 molecules in the plasma membrane into lipid rafts,
which cluster the antibody Fc regions and enabling improved Clq binding. Type II
CD20 antibodies do not appreciably change CD20 distribution and without
concomitant clustering, they are relatively ineffective in CDC.
        0.1 x 106 Daudi or Raji cells were pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well
plates with a concentration series of unpurified antibodies (0.001, 0.003, 0.01, 0.03,
0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 3.0, 10.0 pg/mL) in a total volume of 70 pL for 15 min on a shaker at
RT. Next, 30 pL normal human serum was added as a source of Clq (30% final
concentration) and incubated in a 37 0 C incubator for 45 min. The reaction was
stopped by putting the plates on ice. 10 pL propidium iodide was added and cell lysis
was determined by FACS.
        Figure 20 shows that the E345R mutation enhanced CDC for all tested
antibodies on both (A) Daudi and (B) Wien133 cells. Interestingly, at the used
concentrations all antibodies that did not induce CDC in the wild type format, induced

                                            143
CDC efficiently after introduction of the E345R mutation: CD38 mAb 003 and CD20
type II mAb 11B8 on Daudi cells, and CD38 mAbs 005 and 003 and CD20 type II
mAb 11B8 on Wien133 cells. These data suggest that enhancement of antibody
oligomerization, more specifically by introduction of an E345R mutation, is a general
mechanism to enhance or rescue CDC by existing antibodies.
Example 26
E345R enhances internalization of Tissue Factor antibodies
         To   test   if   enhanced   oligomerization   can   induce   increased     antibody
internalization, colocalization studies of wild type and E345R mutated Tissue Factor
(TF) antibodies with the lysosomal marker LAMP1 were performed by confocal
microscopy.
         SK-OV-3 cells were grown on glass coverslips (thickness 1.5 micron, Thermo
Fisher Scientific, Braunschweig, Germany) in standard tissue culture medium at 37'C
for 1 day. Cells were pre-incubated for 1 hour with 50 pg/mL leupeptin (Sigma) to
block lysosomal activity, after which 10 pg/mL Tissue Factor (TF) antibody (WO
2010/066803) was added. The cells were incubated for an additional 1, 3 or 16
hours at 37'C. Hereafter, cells were washed with PBS and incubated for 30 minutes
at room temperature (RT) with 4% formaldehyde (Klinipath). Slides were washed
with blocking buffer (PBS supplemented with 0.1% saponin [Roche] and 2% BSA
[Roche]) and incubated for 20 minutes with blocking buffer containing 20 mM NH4 CI
to quench formaldehyde.         Slides were washed      again with blocking     buffer and
incubated for 45 minutes at RT with a cocktail of mouse-anti-human CD107a-APC
(BD    Pharmingen)      to identify lysosomal   LAMP1    and   goat-anti-human     IgG-FITC
(Jackson) to identify TF antibodies. Slides were washed again with blocking buffer
and mounted overnight on microscope slides using 20 pL mounting medium (6 gram
Glycerol [Sigma] and 2.4 gram Mowiol 4-88 [Omnilabo] was dissolved in 6 mL
distilled water to which 12 mL 0.2M Tris [Sigma] pH8.5 was added followed by
incubation for 10 min at 50-60'C; mounting medium was aliquoted and stored at
20'C).    Slides were      imaged   with  a  Leica   SPE-II  confocal   microscope     (Leica
Microsystems) equipped with a 63x 1.32-0.6 oil immersion objective lens and LAS-AF
software.
         12-bit   grayscale   TIFF   images   were    analyzed   for  colocalization    using
MetaMorph software (version Meta Series 6.1, Molecular Devices Inc, Sunnyvale
California, USA). Images were imported as stacks and background was subtracted.

                                           144
Identical thresholds settings were used (manually set) for all FITC images and all
APC images. Colocalization was depicted as the pixel intensity of FITC in the region
of interest (ROI), were the ROI is composed of all APC positive regions. To compare
different slides stained with different TF antibodies, the images were normalized
using the pixel intensity of APC. Mouse-anti-human CD107a-APC was used to stain
the lysosomal marker LAMP1 (CD107a). The pixel intensity of LAMP1 should not
differ between various TF antibodies imaged.
Normalized values for colocalization of FITC and APC are expressed as arbitrary units
according to the formula [(TPI FITC x percentage colocalization)/100] x [1/TPI APC]
Percentage colocalization = TPI FITC that colocalizes with an APC pixel / TPI APC
TPI, total pixel Intensity
        Figure 21 depicts the amount of FITC pixel intensity of wild type and E345R
mutated TF antibodies that overlap with APC-labeled lysosomal marker. For each
antibody or condition tested, three different images were analyzed from one slide
containing ~ 1, 3 or >5 cells. Variation was observed between the different images
within each slide. Still, it was evident that the E345R mutation for antibodies 011
and 098 resulted in increased lysosomal colocalization after 1 hour incubation, when
compared with wild type 011 and 098. These results indicate that mutation E345R
induces more rapid internalization and lysosomal colocalization and could therefore
potentiate antibody drug conjugates.
Example 27
Enhanced CDC by E345R mutation in rituximab in different B cell lines with
similar CD20 expression but different levels of membrane-bound
complement regulatory proteins
        Examples 25 and 28 show that the CDC efficacy of wild type rituximab on
Daudi and Wien133 cells was enhanced by introducing the E345R mutation. This
enhanced CDC efficacy results from the E345R-mediated stabilization of Fc-Fc
interactions. The concomitantly formed hexameric antibody ring structure on the
target cell membrane can then promote efficient generation of the membrane attack
complex by facilitating the capture and concentration of activated complement
components close to the cell membrane. As a result of this efficient complement

                                            145
activation, the inhibiting effects of membrane-bound complement regulatory proteins
(mCRP) could be partly overcome. Overexpression of mCRPs, such as CD55, CD46
and CD59, is considered as a barrier for successful immunotherapy with monoclonal
anti-tumor antibodies (Jurianz et al., Mol Immunol 1999 36:929-39; Fishelson et al.
Mol Immunol 2003 40:109-23, Gorter et al., Immunol Today 1999 20:576-82, Zell
et al., Clin Exp Immunol. 2007 Dec 150(3):576-84). Therefore, the efficacy of
rituximab-E345R was compared to that of wild type rituximab on a series of B cell
lines with different levels of the mCRPs CD46, CD55 and CD59, but comparable
levels of the CD20 target expression.
        The B cell lines Daudi, WIL2-S, WSU-NHL, MEC-2 and ARH-77 express
comparable amounts of CD20 molecules (~250.000 specific antibody-binding
capacity - sABC) as determined by QIFIKIT analysis (data not shown). To compare
the expression levels of complement regulatory proteins between these cell lines,
QIFIKIT analysis was performed to determine the levels of CD46 (mouse anti-human
CD46, CBL488, clone J4.48 Chemicon), CD55 (mouse anti-human CD55, CBL511,
Clone BRIC216, Chemicon), and CD59 (mouse anti-human CD59, MCA1054x, clone
MEM-43, Serotec).
        For the CDC assay, 0.1 x 106 of cells were pre-incubated in round-bottom 96
well plates with a saturating antibody concentration series (0.002-40.0 pg/mL in 4
fold dilutions) in a total volume of 100 pL for 15 min on a shaker at RT. Next, 25 pL
normal human serum was added as a source of complement ( 2 0% final
concentration) and incubated in a 37 0 C incubator for 45 min. The reaction was
stopped by putting the plates on ice. 10 pL propidium iodide was added and cell lysis
was determined by FACS. The maximal CDC-mediated killing was calculated from
two independent experiments using the top of best-fit values of a non-linear fit in
GraphPad PRISM 5.
        Figure 22A-D shows that introduction of E345R in wild type rituximab
resulted in enhanced CDC efficacy as observed by an increased maximal lysis and
decreased EC50 for all tested B cell lines.
        Figure 22E shows that the maximal CDC-mediated killing induced by the
rituximab-E345R mutant was always higher than by wild type rituximab,
independent of the expression levels of the membrane-bound complement regulatory
proteins. These data indicate that introduction of E345R enhances the therapeutic
potential of monoclonal antibodies as the tumor cells are less effective in evading
antibody-mediated complement attack by the E345R containing antibodies.

                                            146
Example 28
Comparison of CDC kinetics for wild type and E345R antibodies
        Introduction of the Fc:Fc interaction stabilizing E345R mutation has been
shown to enhance or rescue CDC as observed by decreased ECs0 values and
increased maximal lysis for different antibodies on different cell lines described in
Example 6 (CD20 antibody 7D8 on Daudi and Raji), Example 10 (CD38 antibody 005
on Daudi, Raji and Wien133) and Example 25 (CD38              antibody 003 and CD20
antibodies rituximab and 11B8 on Daudi and Wien133). Next, the kinetics of the CDC
reactions were analyzed to further unravel the difference in CDC efficacy between
wild type and E345R antibodies.
        0.1 x  106  Raji cells were pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates with
antibody at a saturating concentration (10.0 pg/mL) in a total volume of 100 pL for
15 min on a shaker at RT. Next, 25 pL normal human serum was added as a source
of complement (20%        final concentration) and incubated in a 37 0 C incubator for
different periods of time, varying between 0 and 60 min. The reaction was stopped
by putting the plates on ice. 10 pL propidium iodide was added and cell lysis was
determined by FACS.
        Figure    23A shows that wild type CD20 antibody IgG1-7D8            showed a
maximal CDC-mediated killing of 80% of the Raji cells, which was already reached
after 5 min under the tested conditions. However, for IgG-7D8-E345R, 80% killing of
Raji cells was observed even faster, after 3 min. Maximal lysis by IgG-7D8-E345R
(95%) was also reached after 5 minutes.
        Figure 23B shows that also for wild type CD20 antibody rituximab, which is
less potent than 7D8 to induce CDC on the used Raji cells, introduction of the E345R
mutation resulted in faster killing of the target cells. Wild type rituximab showed a
maximal     CDC-mediated     killing of 32%,   which was reached after 20 minutes.
Rituximab-E345R reached 32% killing already after approximately 3 minutes and
remarkably, maximal lysis by rituximab-E345R (85%) was also reached after 20
minutes.
        Figure 23C+D shows that the used Raji cells, which are resistant for CDC
mediated killing by wild type CD38 antibodies IgG1-003 and IgG1-005, could be
killed fast by introducing the E345R mutation. IgG1-003-E345R and IgG1-005-E345R
showed maximal CDC (50% and 60%, respectively) already after 5 min.

                                              147
        In  summary,      E345R     antibodies are  more   potent than  their wild  type
counterparts, which results from a combination of higher efficacy (lower ECs0 ),
increased maximal lysis and a faster kinetics of the CDC reaction.
Example 29
Comparison of CDC kinetics for bispecific antibodies with or without the
E345R mutation
        In example 23 it is described that the E345R mutation can be applied to the
CD38xCD20       bispecific    antibody   IgGl-005-F405L  x   IgGl-7D8-K409R    that  was
generated by the DuoBody platform, resulting in an enhanced killing capacity as
observed by a decreased ECs0 in CDC assays on Raji and Wien133 cells. Next, the
kinetics of the CDC reaction was analyzed to further unravel the difference in CDC
efficacy between the CD38xCD20 bispecific antibodies with and without E345R.
        0.1 x  106  Raji cells were pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates with
antibody at a saturating concentration (10.0 pg/mL) in a total volume of 100 pL for
15 min on a shaker at RT. Next, 25 pL normal human serum was added as a source
of complement (20%         final concentration) and incubated in a 37 0 C incubator for
different periods of time, varying between 0 and 60 min. The reaction was stopped
by putting the plates on ice. 10 pL propidium iodide was added and cell lysis was
determined by FACS.
        Figure 24 shows that the bispecific antibody IgG1-005-F405L x IgG1-7D8
K409R induced a maximal CDC-mediated killing of 83%, which was reached after 10
minutes. Introduction of E345R resulted in an increased maximal killing by IgG1
005-E345R-F405L x IgG1-7D8-E345R-K409R              (98%),  which was already reached
after 2 minutes. These data indicate that introducing the Fc-Fc stabilizing E345R
mutation in the bispecific antibody results in an accelerated CDC-mediated killing of
the target cells.
Example 30
Comparison of CDC kinetics for monovalent binding antibodies with and
without E345R
        Example 22 shows that monovalent target binding further enhanced the CDC
efficacy of E345R antibodies as observed           by increased maximal    lysis with a
CD38xEGFR bispecifc antibody on the CD38-positive, EGFR-negative Wien133 cells.
Next, the kinetics of the CDC reaction was analyzed to further unravel the difference

                                           148
in CDC-mediated killing capacity between monovalently binding antibodies with and
without E345R.
         Bispecific CD38xEGFR and CD20xEGFR antibodies, with or without the E345R
mutation, were generated in vitro according to the DuoBody platform as described in
Example 22. CDC efficacy of the CD38xEGFR bispecific antibodies was tested on the
CD38-positive, EGFR-negative Raji cells, to which the bispecific antibodies can only
bind monovalently via CD38. 0.1 x    106 Raji cells were pre-incubated in round-bottom
96-well plates with antibody at a saturating concentration (10.0 pg/mL) in a total
volume of 100 pL for 15 min on a shaker at RT. Next, 25 pL normal human serum
was added as a source of complement (20% final concentration) and incubated in a
37 0 C incubator for different periods of time, varying between 0 and 60 min. The
reaction was stopped by putting the plates on ice. 10 pL propidium iodide was added
and cell lysis was determined by FACS.
         Figure 25 shows that bispecific antibody CD38xEGFR (IgG1-005-K409R x
IgG1-2F8-F405L)      induced a maximal CDC-mediated        killing of 55%,   which was
reached after approximately 10 minutes. Introduction of E345R resulted in an
increased maximal killing (96%), which was already reached within 5 minutes.
         Figure 25 shows that bispecific antibody CD20xEGFR (IgG1-7D8-K409R x
IgG1-2F8-F405L)      induced a maximal CDC-mediated        killing of 85%,   which was
reached after approximately 5 minutes. However, with the CD20xEGFR antibody with
introduced E345R, 85% lysis was observed faster, after 2 minutes. Maximal lysis by
the E345R CD20xEGFR antibody (97%) was also reached after 5 minutes.
         In summary, introduction of the E345R mutation in these monovalent binding
antibodies resulted in more potent antibodies, which results from a combination of
increased maximal lysis and a faster kinetics of the CDC reaction.
Example 31
CDC by a combination of therapeutic and E345R/Q386K antibodies
        As described in Example 19, mutant CD38 antibodies derived from IgG1-005
could induce efficient CDC on Wien133 cells when the E345 position of the wild type
antibody was substituted to any amino acid other than Glutamate (E). This suggests
that oligomerization, as a prerequisite of CDC, is hindered by the presence of the
Glutamate side chain at position 345 of the antibody. Since E345 on one Fc is in
close proximity to Q386 on the facing second Fc moiety in the hexameric antibody
ring structure, the E345-mediated hindrance of oligomerization in a first antibody

                                            149
could possibly be removed by substitutions at the Q386 position of a second
antibody. This would then enable E345 in the first antibody to interact better with
the mutated 386 position in the second antibody in case both antibodies are
combined. To test this hypothesis, CDC assays were performed on Wien133, in which
wild type antibodies (IgG1-003, IgG1-005 or IgG1-11B8) were mixed with IgG1-005
E345R/Q386K or IgG1-005-E345R/Q386K/E430G as an example.
        0.1 x 106 Wien133 cells were pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates
with a concentration series of unpurified IgG1-005-E345R/Q386K, IgG1-005
E345R/Q386K/E430G or control antibody (0.0001-20.0 pg/mL in 3.33-fold dilutions)
in the presence or absence of 1.0 or 10.0 pg/mL wild type IgG1-003, IgG1-005 or
IgG1-11B8 antibody in a total volume of 100 pL for 15 min on a shaker at RT. Next,
25 pL normal human serum was added as a source of complement (20% final
concentration) and incubated in a 37 0 C incubator for 45 min. The reaction was
stopped by putting the plates on ice. 10 pL propidium iodide was added and cell lysis
was determined by FACS.
        Figure 26A/B/C shows that CD38 antibody IgG1-005-E345R/Q386K induced
CDC-mediated lysis of Wien133 cells in a dose-dependent fashion (dashed line).
Combining IgG1-005-E345R/Q386K with 1 or 10 pg/mL wild type CD38 antibody
IgG1-003 (Figure 26A) or wild type CD20 antibody IgG1-11B8 (Figure 26B)
resulted in an increased maximal cell lysis. Combining IgG1-005-E345R/Q386K with
wild type IgG1-005 inhibited CDC in a dose-dependent fashion, possibly by
competing for the binding site (Figure 26C).
        Figure 26D/E/F shows similar results for CD38 antibody IgG1-005
E345R/Q386K/E430G.
        These data indicate that wild type antibodies IgG1-003 and IgG1-11B8
participated in antibody oligomerization and CDC activation when combined with
IgG1-005-E345R/Q386K or IgG1-005-E345R/Q386K/E430G. In such combinations,
the hindrance of oligomerization by the E345-position that is present in the wild type
antibody could be, at least partly, removed by the Q386K substitution in the mutant
antibody. This application is in particular interesting to improve therapies with
antibodies that are wild type in the E345 position, such as rituximab, ofatumumab,
daratumumab or trastuzumab. Also, such oligomerization-inducing antibodies might
promote formation of cell-bound complexes with patient-own antibodies directed
against target cells like tumor cells or bacteria.

                                             150
Example 19 describes multiple amino acids in addition to E345 that enhance CDC
upon mutation, for example E430 and S440, of which specific mutations induced
efficient CDC on Wien133 cells when incorporated in CD38 antibody IgG1-005. With
the exception of 1253 and Y436 mutants, the identified oligomerization-enhancing
mutations contact unmutated amino acids on the facing second Fc moiety in the
hexameric     ring   structure.   Therefore,  the   identified oligomerization-enhancing
mutations, both alone or combined, can be expected to also promote oligomerization
with unmutated antibodies, and further optimization of such mutants could be
achieved by a selection strategy similar to that applied in example 19.
Example 32
E345R induced CDC in IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 antibody isotypes
        To test if the introduction of oligomerization-promoting mutations can
stimulate the CDC actvity of non-IgG1 antibody isotypes, isotypic variants of the
CD38 antibody IgG1-005 were generated with constant domains of human IgG2,
IgG3 or IgG4 yielding IgG2-005, IgG3-005 and IgG4-005 by methods known in the
art. Furthermore, the oligomerization enhancing E345R mutation was introduced in
all these antibodies, yielding IgG2-005-E345R, IgG3-005-E345R and IgG4-005
E345R. In a similar way, also IgG2-003 and IgG2-003-E345R were generated from
CD38 antibody IgG1-003. CDC efficacy of the different isotypes was compared in an
in vitro CDC assay.
        0.1 x  106  Wien133 cells were pre-incubated in round-bottom 96-well plates
with 10 pg/mL unpurified antibodies in a total volume of 100 pL for 15 min on a
shaker at RT. IgG1-005-E345R was added at 3.0 pg/mL. Next, 25 pL normal human
serum was added as a source of complement (20% final concentration) and
incubated in a 37 0 C incubator for 45 min. The reaction was stopped by putting the
plates on ice. 10 pL propidium iodide was added and cell lysis was determined by
FACS.
        Figure 27 shows that IgG2-005, IgG2-003, IgG3-005 and IgG4-005 were
unable to lyse either (A) Daudi or (B) Wien133 cells efficiently under the tested
conditions (the observed ~20% lysis was considered as background). Introduction of
the E345R mutation enabled potent CDC on Daudi cells by all IgG isotypes tested.
These results were confirmed using CDC on Wien133 cells, albeit that IgG3-005
E345R displayed limited CDC activity relative to the other isotypic variants. These
data indicate that besides IgG1, an oligomerization enhancing mutation such as

                                           151
E345R can also be applied to promote CDC activity of IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4
antibodies.
Example 33
CDC by IgG1-005 and IgG1-005-E345R in an ex vivo CDC assay on patient
derived CD38-positive B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells.
        Cryopreserved primary cells from CLL patient samples were obtained from the
hematopathology     biobank from CDB-IDIBAPS-Hospital         Clinic (Dr.   Elias Campo,
Hematopathology      Unit,   Department     of   Pathology,   Hospital    Clinic, Institut
d'Investigacions Biomediques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), University of Barcelona,
Barcelona, Spain), or from clinical studies by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood
Institute (NHLBI) (Dr. Adrian Wiestner, NHLBI, Hematology Branch of the National
Institutes of Health (NIH),    Bethesda).   Informed consent was obtained from all
patients in accordance with the Institutional Ethics Committee of the Hospital Clinic
(Barcelona, Spain) or the Institutional Review Board of the NIH and the Declaration
of Helsinki. All samples were genetically and immunophenotypically characterized.
        The CLL samples were categorized into two groups according to their CD38
expression as determined by FACS: five samples were included in the CD38 high
group (between 50% and 98% of the CD38 expression on Daudi cells) and four
samples were included in the CD38 low group (between 0.5% and 3% of the CD38
expression on Daudi cells).
        Fluorescently labeled CLL cells (labeling with 5 pM Calcein AM) were incubated
with a concentration series of antibody (0.01-10 pg/mL in 10-fold dilutions). Next,
normal human serum was added to the antibody-opsonized cells (100,000 cells/well)
as a source of complement (10%       final concentration) and incubated for 45 min at
   0
37 C. Supernatans were recovered and fluorescence was read in a SynergyTM HT
fluorometer as a measure for cell lysis. Cell killing was calculated as follows:
Specific lysis = 100 x (sample-spontaneous lysis)/(max lysis - spontaneous lysis)
where max lysis is determined by a sample of cells treated with 1% Triton, and
spontaneous lysis is determined from a sample where cells were incubated in the
presence of 10% NHS without antibody.
        Figure 28 shows that IgG1-005-E345R strongly enhanced CDC efficacy
compared to wild type IgG1-005 on           both CLL primary      cells with high CD38
expression and CLL primary cells with low CD38 expression.

                                            152
EQUIVALENTS
Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than
routine experimentation, many equivalents of the specific embodiments of the
invention described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the
following claims. Any and all combination of embodiments disclosed in dependent
claims is also contemplated to be within the scope of the invention.

                                         153
CLAIMS
1. A method of increasing an effector function of a parent polypeptide comprising an
Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, which method comprises
introducing a mutation to the parent polypeptide in at least one amino acid residue
selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254,
Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
2. The method according to claim 1 of increasing an effector function of a parent
antibody, comprising introducing a mutation to the parent antibody in at least one
amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386,
P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or
S440W.
3. A method of decreasing an effector function of a parent polypeptide comprising an
Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, which method comprises
introducing a mutation to the parent polypeptide in one amino acid residue selected
from those corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W, such as
wherein the mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of
human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the position
corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
4. The method according to claim 3 of decreasing an effector function of a parent
antibody comprising introducing a mutation to the parent antibody in one amino acid
residue selected from those corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or
S440W, such as wherein the mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the
Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the
position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is
S440K/H/R.

                                          154
5. The method according to any one of the claims 2 or 4, wherein the parent
antibody is a monospecific, bispecific or multispecific antibody.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the parent antibody is a bispecific
antibody which comprises a first polypeptide comprising a first CH2-CH3 region of an
immunoglobulin and a first antigen-binding region, and a second polypeptide
comprising a second CH2-CH3 region of an immunoglobulin and a second antigen
binding region, wherein the first and second antigen-binding regions bind different
epitopes on the same antigen or on different antigens, and wherein said first CH2
CH3 region comprises a further amino acid substitution at a position selected from
those corresponding to K409, T366, L368, K370, D399, F405, and Y407 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and wherein said second CH2-CH3 region
comprises a further amino acid substitution at a position selected from those
corresponding to F405, T366, L368, K370, D399, Y407, and K409 in the Fc-region of
a human IgG1 heavy chain, and wherein said further amino acid substitution in the
first CH2-CH3 region is different from the said further amino acid substitution in the
second CH2-CH3 region.
7. The method according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the parent antibody is a bispecific
antibody and comprises a first polypeptide and a second polypeptide, wherein said
first polypeptide comprises a first CH2-CH3 region of an immunoglobulin and a first
antigen-binding region, and said second polypeptide comprises a second CH2-CH3
region of an immunoglobulin and a second antigen-binding region, wherein the first
and second antigen-binding regions bind different epitopes on the same antigen or
on different antigens, said method comprising introducing to each of the first and
second CH2-CH3 region a mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from
those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356,
T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
8. A method according to any one of the claims 1 to 2 and 5 to 7, said method
comprises introducing the mutation in one or more positions other than S440 and
K447, and further introducing a mutation

                                             155
(i) in each of the amino acid residues corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is
not S440Y or S440W,
(ii) in each of the amino acid residues corresponding to K447 and 448 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, such as K447K/R/H and 448E/D in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, preferably K447K and 448E in the Fc-region of
a human IgG1 heavy chain, or
(iii) in each of the amino acid residues corresponding to K447, 448 and 449 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, such as K447D/E, 448K/R/H and 449P in
the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, preferably K447E, 448K and 449P in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
9. The method according to claim 8, said method comprises introducing the mutation
in one or more positions other than S440, and further introducing a mutation in each
of the amino acid residues corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or
S440W.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the mutation in the position
corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E,
and/or the mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human
IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
11. A method of increasing an effector function of a combination of at least a first
and a second parent polypeptide, wherein the at least first and second parent
polypeptide each comprises an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding
region, wherein said method comprises
(i) introducing to the at least first and/or second parent polypeptide a mutation in
one or more amino acid residues selected from the group consisting of:
          (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
          (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
          (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,

                                             156
         (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
         (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
12. The method according to claim 11 of increasing an effector function of a
combination of at least a first and a second parent antibody, wherein the at least
first and second parent antibody each comprises a Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin
and an antigen-binding region, wherein said method comprises
(i) introducing to the at least first and/or second parent antibody a mutation in one
or more amino acid residues selected from the group consisting of:
         (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
         (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
         (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
         (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
         (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the mutation in the at least first
and/or second parent antibody is in at least one amino acid residue selected from
those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356,
T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
14. The method according to claim 12 to 13, wherein said method comprises
introducing a mutation in both the first and second parent antibodies.
15. The method according to claim 12, wherein said method comprises
         (i) introducing a mutation to the first parent antibody in at least one amino
acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247,

                                             157
1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W,
        (ii) providing the second parent antibody which does not comprise a mutation
in an amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440,
Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
16. The method according to any one of the claims 12 to 15, wherein said method
comprises introducing the mutation in one or more positions other than S440, and
wherein said method further comprises the steps of
        (i) introducing to the first parent antibody a second mutation in the amino
acid residue corresponding to position K439 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain; and
        (ii) introducing to the second parent antibody a second mutation in the amino
acid residue corresponding to position S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W; wherein
steps (ii) and (iii) may alternatively be
        (i) introducing to the first parent antibody a second mutation in the amino
acid residue corresponding to position S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W; and
        (ii) introducing to the second parent antibody a second mutation in the amino
acid residue corresponding to position K439 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain.
17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the mutation in the position
corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E, and
the mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1
heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
18. The method according to any one of the claims 12 to 17, wherein said at least
first and second parent antibodies may each be selected from the group of
monospecific, bispecific and multispecific antibodies.

                                            158
19. The method according to claim 18, wherein said at least first and second parent
antibodies are bispecific or multispecific antibodies which bind different epitopes on
the same antigen or on different antigens.
20. The method according to claim 18 or 19, wherein said at least first and second
parent antibodies are each a bispecific antibody which comprises a first polypeptide
comprising a first CH2-CH3 region of an immunoglobulin and a first antigen-binding
region, and a second polypeptide comprising a second CH2-CH3 region of an
immunoglobulin and a second antigen-binding region, wherein the first and second
antigen-binding regions bind different epitopes on the same antigen or on different
antigens, and wherein said first CH2-CH3 region comprises a further amino acid
substitution at a position selected from those corresponding to K409, T366, L368,
K370, D399, F405, and Y407 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
wherein said second CH2-CH3 region comprises a further amino acid substitution at
a position selected from those corresponding to F405, T366, L368, K370, D399,
Y407, and K409 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and wherein said
further amino acid substitution in the first CH2-CH3 region is different from the said
further amino acid substitution in the second CH2-CH3 region.
21. The method according to any one of the claims 1 to 2, 5 to 7, 11 to 15, and 18
to 20, wherein the mutation is in at least one amino acid residue selected from those
corresponding to E345, E430, S440 to Y or W, and Q386 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain, preferably wherein the mutation is at least one amino acid
substitution of the following: E345 to R,  Q, N, or K, E430 to T, S, or G, S440 to Y or
W, or Q386 to K.
22. The method according to any one of the claims 1 to 2, 5 to 7, 11 to 15, and 18
to 20, comprising introducing to the parent antibody a mutation in at least two
amino acid residues selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386,
P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or
S440W.
23. The method according to claim 22, comprising introducing to the parent antibody
a mutation in at least two amino acid residues selected from those corresponding to

                                            159
E345, E430, Q386, and S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the
proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W, such as wherein the mutation
in the at least two amino acids are selected from the following: E345 to R, Q, N, or
K, E430 to T, S, or G, S440 to Y or W, or Q386 to K.
24. The method according to any one of the claims 1 to 23, wherein the effector
function is an Fc-mediated effector function selected from an Fc-mediated effector
function selected from Clq-binding, complement activation, complement dependent
cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxity (ADCC), FcRn
binding, Fc-receptor binding including Fc-gamma receptor-binding, Protein A-binding,
Protein G-binding, antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP), complement
dependent cellular cytotoxicity (CDCC), complement-enhanced cytotoxicity ,
opsonisation, Fc-containing polypeptide internalization, target downmodulation, ADC
uptake, induction of apoptosis, cell death, cell cycle arrest, and any combination
thereof.
25. The method according to any one of the claims 1 to 2 and 5 to 24, wherein the
effector function is increased when the antibody is bound to its antigen.
26. The method according to claim 25, wherein the antigen is on an antigen
expressing cell, cell membrane, or virion.
27. A method of inducing an effector response, against a cell, cell membrane, or
virion expressing a target to which a parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of
an immunoglobulin and a binding region binds, comprising
        (i) providing a parent polypeptide or a combination of at least a first parent
polypeptide and a second parent polypeptide which has been mutated according to
any one of the claims 1 to 24; and
        (ii) contacting a preparation of the mutated parent polypeptide of step (i) or
the mutated combination of at least a first parent polypeptide and a second parent
polypeptide of step (i) with the cell, cell membrane, or virion expressing an antigen
in the presence of human complement or an effector cell.

                                             160
28. The method according to claim 27 of inducing an effector response, against a
cell, cell membrane, or virion expressing an antigen to which a parent antibody
binds, comprising
         (i) providing a parent antibody or a combination of at least a first parent
antibody and a second parent antibody which has been mutated according to any
one of the claims 1 to 24; and
         (ii) contacting a preparation of the mutated parent antibody of step (i) or the
mutated combination of at least a first parent antibody and a second parent antibody
of step (i) with the cell, cell membrane, or virion expressing an antigen in the
presence of human complement or an effector cell.
29. The method according to claim 27 or 28, wherein the effector response is
complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), an Fc-mediated effector response
selected from an Fc-mediated effector response selected from Clq-binding,
complement activation, complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), antibody
dependent cell-mediated cytotoxity (ADCC), FcRn-binding, Fc-receptor binding
including Fc-gamma receptor-binding, Protein A-binding, Protein G-binding,
antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP), complement-dependent cellular
cytotoxicity (CDCC), complement-enhanced cytotoxicity , opsonisation, Fc-containing
polypeptide internalization, target downmodulation, ADC uptake, induction of
apoptosis, cell death, cell cycle arrest, and any combination thereof.
30. A method of increasing the specificity of a combination of at least a first and a
second parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a
binding region, comprising
         A)
         (i) introducing to the first parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid
residue in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc region of a human IgG1
heavy chain; and
         (ii) introducing to the second parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid
residue in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W,

                                             161
        B)
        (i) introducing to the first parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid
residue in the position corresponding to K447D/E in the Fc region of a human IgGi
heavy chain; and
        (ii) introducing to the second parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid
residue in the position corresponding to K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain; or
        C)
        (i) introducing to the first parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid
residue in the position corresponding to K447D/E in the Fc region of a human IgG1
heavy chain; and
        (ii) introducing to the second parent polypeptide a mutation in an amino acid
residue in the position corresponding to K447K/R/H, 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
31. The method according to claim 30 of increasing the specificity of a combination
of at least a first and a second parent antibody, comprising
        (i) introducing to the first parent antibody a mutation in an amino acid
residue in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc region of a human IgG1
heavy chain; and
        (ii) introducing to the second parent antibody a mutation in an amino acid
residue in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
32. The method according to claim 31, wherein the mutation in the position
corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is K439D/E, and
the mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of human IgG1
heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
33. The method according to any one of the claims 1 to 32, wherein the parent
antibody or the combination of a first parent antibody and a second parent antibody
is a human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl, IgA2, IgD or IgE, optionally a human full
length antibody, such as a human full-length IgG1 antibody.

                                          162
34. A variant of a parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin
and a binding region, wherein the variant comprises a mutation in at least one amino
acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247,
1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
35. The variant according to claim 34 of a parent antibody comprising an antigen
binding region and a Fc-domain, wherein the variant comprises a mutation in at least
one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430, S440,
Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is
S440Y or S440W.
36. The variant according to claim 35, wherein the mutation in at least one amino
acid residue is selected from those corresponding to E345X, E430X, S440W/Y,
Q386K, P247G, 1253V, S254L, Q311L/W, D/E356R, E382V, and Y4361 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, wherein X is any amino acid, such as a natural
occurring amino acid.
37. The variant according to claim 36, wherein the mutation in at least one amino
acid residue is selected from those corresponding to E345X, E430X, S440W/Y,
Q386K, in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, wherein X is any amino acid,
such as a natural occurring amino acid.
38. The variant according to claim 37, wherein the mutation in at least one amino
acid residue is selected from those corresponding to
E345R/Q/N/K/A/C/D/F/G/H/I/L/M/P/S/T/V/W/Y,
E430T/S/G/A/C/D/F/H/I/L/K/M/N/P/Q/R/V/W/Y,
S440W/Y,
and Q386K
in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
39. The variant according to claim 38, wherein the mutation in at least one amino
acid residue is selected from those corresponding to E345R/Q/N/K, E430T/S/G,
S440Y/W, and Q386K in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.

                                          163
40. A variant of a parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin
and a binding region, wherein the variant comprises a mutation in at least two amino
acid residues selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain,
        wherein the at least two amino acid mutations are different.
41. The variant according to claim 40 of a parent antibody comprising an antigen
binding region and a Fc-domain, wherein the variant comprises a mutation in at least
two amino acid residues selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain,
        wherein the at least two amino acid mutations are different.
42. The variant according to claim 41, wherein the variant comprises a mutation in
at least two amino acid residues selected from those corresponding to E345, E430,
S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the

                                            164
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440
is S440Y or S440W.
43. The variant according to claim 42, wherein the variant comprises a mutation in
at least two amino acid residues selected from those corresponding to E345X,
E430X, S440W/Y, Q386K, P247G, 1253V, S254L, Q311L/W, D/E356R, E382V, and
Y4361 in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, wherein X is any amino acid,
such as a natural occurring amino acid.
44. The variant according to claim 43, wherein the variant comprises a mutation in
at least two amino acid residues selected from the group of corresponding to those
of E345X, E430X, S440W/Y, and Q386K in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy
chain, wherein X is any amino acid, such as a natural occurring amino acid.
45. The variant according to claim 44, wherein the variant comprises a mutation in
at least two amino acid residues selected from those corresponding to
E345R/Q/N/K/A/C/D/F/G/H/I/L/M/P/S/T/V/W/Y,
E430T/S/G/A/C/D/F/H/I/L/K/M/N/P/Q/R/V/W/Y,         S440W/Y, and Q386K in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
46. The variant according to claim 45, wherein the mutation in at least two amino
acid residues are selected from those corresponding to E345R/Q/N/K, E430T/S/G,
S440Y/W, and Q386K in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
47. The variant according to any one of the claims 34 to 46, wherein the mutation is
on position(s) other than S440 and K447, and wherein the variant further comprises
a mutation
(i) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not
S440W or S440Y;
(ii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; or
(iii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.

                                            165
48. The variant according to claim 47, wherein the mutation is on position(s) other
than S440, and wherein the variant further comprises a mutation in at least one
amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440W or S440Y.
49. A variant of a parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin
and a binding region, wherein the variant comprises a mutation in at least one amino
acid residues selected from the group of
          (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
          (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
          (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
          (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that it does not comprise a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and
          (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and
          wherein the variant comprises a further mutation
(i) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not
S440W or S440Y;
(ii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; or
(iii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
50. The variant according to claim 49 of a parent antibody comprising an antigen
binding region and a Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin, wherein the variant
comprises a mutation in at least one amino acid residues selected from the group of
          (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,

                                            166
          (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
          (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
          (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that it does not comprise a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and
          (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and
          wherein the variant comprises a further mutation
(i) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K439 or S440 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not
S440W or S440Y,
(ii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; or
(iii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
51. The variant according to claim 49 or 50, wherein the variant comprises an amino
acid mutation in both of the positions corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc
region of an IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not
S440Y or S440W.
52. The variant according to any one of the claims 47 to 51, wherein the mutation in
the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is
K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region
of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
53. A variant of a parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin
and a binding region, wherein the variant comprises a mutation
(i) in at least one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to K439 and
S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the
mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W, such as wherein the mutation in the
position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is
K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region
of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R;

                                            167
(ii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; or
(iii) in at least one amino acid residue corresponding to K447D/E or corresponding to
K447K/R/H and 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
54. The variant according to claim 53 of a parent antibody comprising an antigen
binding region and an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin, wherein the variant
comprises a mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from those
corresponding to K439 and S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with
the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W, such as wherein the
mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of human IgG1
heavy chain is K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the position corresponding to S440
in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
55. The variant according to any one of the claims 34 to 54, wherein the variant is
selected from a monospecific antibody, bispecific antibody or multispecific antibody.
56. The variant according to claim 55 which is a bispecific antibody comprising a first
polypeptide comprising a first CH2-CH3 region of an immunoglobulin and a first
antigen-binding region, and a second polypeptide comprising a second CH2-CH3
region of an immunoglobulin and a second antigen-binding region, wherein the first
and second antigen-binding regions bind different epitopes on the same antigen or
on different antigens, and wherein
          the first and second CH2-CH3 region each comprises a first mutation in at
least one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to E345, E430,
S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the
Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440
is S440Y or S440W.
57. The variant according to claim 56 which is a bispecific antibody, wherein the first
polypeptide comprises a further mutation in an amino acid residue selected from
those corresponding to K409, T366, L368, K370, D399, F405, and Y407 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
          the second polypeptide comprises a further mutation in an amino acid residue
selected from those corresponding to F405, T366, L368, K370, D399, Y407 and K409

                                            168
in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and wherein the said further mutation
in the first polypeptide is different from the said further mutation in the second
polypeptide.
58. The variant according to any one of the claims 34 to 57, wherein said variant is
conjugated to a drug, toxin or radiolabel, such as wherein the variant is conjugated
to a toxin via a linker.
59. The variant according to any one of the claims 34 to 57, wherein said variant is
part of a fusion protein.
60. The variant according to any one of the claims 34 to 59, wherein the variant is a
human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl, IgA2, IgD or IgE antibody, optionally a human
full-length antibody, such as a human full-length IgG1 antibody.
61. A composition comprising a first variant of a parent polypeptide and a second
variant of a parent polypeptide, wherein the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain
of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, wherein the second variant comprises a
second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region, and wherein
(i) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in
the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and said second variant comprises a
mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W,
(ii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E
in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a
mutation in the position corresponding to K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, or
(iii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E
in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a
mutation in the position corresponding to K447K/R/H, 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
62. The composition according to claim 61 comprising a first variant of a parent
antibody and a second variant of a parent antibody, wherein the first variant
comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an antigen-binding region,

                                            169
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and
an antigen-binding region, and wherein
(i) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in
the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and said second variant comprises a
mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W,
(ii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E
in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a
mutation in the position corresponding to K447K/R/H and 448P in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain, or
(iii) said first variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to K447D/E
in the Fc region of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and said second variant comprises a
mutation in the position corresponding to K447K/R/H, 448K/R/H and 449P in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
63. The composition according to claim 62 comprising a first variant of a parent
antibody and a second variant of a parent antibody, wherein the first variant
comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an antigen-binding region,
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and
an antigen-binding region, and wherein said first variant comprises a mutation in the
position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and
wherein the second variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to
S440, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or S440W.
64. The composition according to claim 63, wherein the first variant comprises a first
Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and an antigen-binding region, wherein said first
variant comprises (i) a first mutation in at least one amino acid residue other than a
mutation in K439 selected from the group of
         (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
         (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
         (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,

                                            170
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain; and
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and
an antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant comprises (i) a first mutation
in at least one amino acid residue other than a mutation in S440 selected from the
group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc region
of an IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not S440Y or
S440W.
65. A composition according to claim 63, wherein the first variant comprises (i) a
first mutation in at least one amino acid residue other than a mutation in K439
selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and

                                            171
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and
        (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region
of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and
wherein the second variant comprises a mutation in the position corresponding to
S440 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, which is not is not S440Y or
S440W.
66. A composition according to claim 63, wherein the first variant comprises a
mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1
heavy chain; and
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and
an antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant comprises (i) a first mutation
in at least one amino acid residue other than a mutation in S440 selected from the
group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain,
        and (ii) a second mutation in the position corresponding to S440 in the Fc
region of an IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the mutation in S440 is not
S440Y or S440W.
67. The composition according to any one of the claims 61 to 66, wherein the
mutation in the position corresponding to K439 in the Fc-region of human IgG1
heavy chain is K439D/E, and/or the mutation in the position corresponding to S440
in the Fc-region of human IgG1 heavy chain is S440K/H/R.
68. A composition comprising a first variant of an parent polypeptide comprising an
Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding region and a second variant of a

                                           172
parent polypeptide comprising an Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a binding
region, wherein
the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a first
antigen-binding region, wherein the first variant comprises a first mutation in at least
an amino acid residue selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and wherein
the second variant does not comprise a mutation in an amino acid residue selected
from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
(e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain.
69. The composition according to claim 68 comprising a first variant of an antibody
and a second variant of a parent antibody, wherein
the first variant comprises a first Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and a first
antigen-binding region, wherein the first variant comprises a first mutation in at least
an amino acid residue selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,

                                          173
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
        (e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc
region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, and
wherein the second variant comprises a second Fc-domain of an immunoglobulin and
a second antigen-binding region, wherein said second variant does not comprise a
mutation in an amino acid residue selected from the group of
        (a) an amino acid residue within the CH2-CH3 region providing allosteric
mutations,
        (b) an amino acid residue within the hydrophobic knobs of the CH2-CH3
region,
        (c) an amino acid residue within the N-terminal CH3 helix,
        (d) an amino acid residue within the C-terminal CH3 beta-strand, with the
proviso that in case of a mutation corresponding to S440 in the Fc-region of a human
IgG1 heavy chain the mutation is S440Y or S440W, and
(e) an amino acid residue corresponding to E345, E382 or Q386 in the Fc-region of a
human IgG1 heavy chain.
70. The composition according to any one of the claims 61 to 67, wherein the first
and second variant comprise a mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected
from those corresponding to E345, E430, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356,
T359, E382, Y436, and K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain.
71. The composition according to claim 70, wherein the mutation in the first and
second variants are different.
72. The composition according to claim 68 or 69, wherein the first variant comprises
a mutation in at least one amino acid residue selected from those corresponding to
E345, E430, S440, Q386, P247, 1253, S254, Q311, D/E356, T359, E382, Y436, and

                                           174
K447 in the Fc-region of a human IgG1 heavy chain, with the proviso that the
mutation in S440 is S440Y or S440W.
73. The composition according to any one of the claims 61 to 72, wherein the first
variant and second variant is each a human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl, IgA2, IgD
or IgE antibody, optionally each a human full-length antibody, such as each a human
full-length IgG1 antibody.
74. The composition according to any one of the claims 61 to 73, wherein the first
variant and second variant is selected from a monospecific antibody, bispecific
antibody or multispecific antibody.
75. The composition according to any one of the claims 61 to 74, wherein the first
and the second variant bind different epitopes on the same antigen or on different
antigens.
76. The composition according to any one of the claims 61 to 75, wherein one or
both of the first variant and second variant is conjugated to a drug, toxin or
radiolabel, such as wherein one or both of the first variant and second variant is
conjugated to a toxin via a linker.
77. The composition according to any one of the claims 61 to 75, wherein one or
both of the first variant and second variant is part of a fusion protein.
78. A composition comprising the variant according to any one of the claims 34 to 60
or the composition according to any one of the claims 61 to 77 and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
79. A kit-of-parts comprising a first variant and a second variant as defined in any
one of the claims 34 to 60 for simultaneous, separate or sequential use in therapy.
80. The variant, composition or kit-of-parts according to any one of the claims 34 to
79 for treatment of a disease, such as cancer.

                                          175
81. A method for treatment of a human comprising administration of a variant, a
composition or a kit-of-parts according to any one of the claims 34 to 79.
82. A method for treatment of cancer in a human comprising administration of the
variant, the composition or the kit-of-parts according to any one of the claims 34 to
79.
                                    GENMAB B.V.
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P38333AU01

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                                                            !           "
                  #        $       %&'()
                  *        $        $             %###+
                  *                ' &' %
                  %        ,
                  &        $                              #-.
<removed-apn>
                           ##
                           $/
                   #       !            0
              *
              1                !             1    $             2 1 $!          $             1     $
                                            .                                                                       .
                       !            1       1     !       1     1               1                   2 1                 0
                                                                        .                                   #
              $!      $      1      $       2 1   !       2 1               0                 1      1              !
                            #.                                  *                                   *.
              1       2 1 3         !       $!    $        1    2 1             1                   1
                      .                                   ..                                  %
                                    2 1 2 1        !      2 1 $                                     1       !       1        !
              %.                                  &                                     &.                                  ,
                       1                    2 1           3             $                     !             2 1       0
                                            ,.                                  +                                   +.
                      2 1      1    $                               0           !       3     !             $       $
                                                                            .
              $        1    $       1                     1     1       $               2 1 $!              $!      $       $
                                .                                                                       .
                      $                 0   !             4     1                   5     !   $     1       2 1     !
                       #                                   #.                                  *
              2 1 2 1 2 1               0 2 1             3     1           0 $           1 2 1             $!               0
               *.                                 .                                       ..                                %
                      2 1       0   1       2 1   1       2 1 3                 1             !             $        5      1
                                             %.                                 &                                   &.
               1       1                              !             5 2 1 2 1                 2 1               !   2 1
                                        ,                              ,.                                       +
                                                                                    $ 5

<removed-date>
              3           1      0       0               1             1                                      2 1
                                +.                                                                        .
                          1          $       1     $     1     1               !       1                      1             1
                                                          .
              1 $                5   1       $     1     2 1           !               $   $                      5    0    1
               .                                   #                                    #.                                  *
              4           !                  1 2 1                     !                      2 1             1       $!
<removed-apn>
                                             *.                                .                                       ..
              $                  0   1       1     2 1   1         0   1                      1       1       $       1
                                     %                                 %.                                      &
                                     !       !     $     $     2 1                 0              0   1               $!    $!
                                &.                              ,                                     ,.
                                                   !     2 1       0                      5       0   1       1       1
                          +                               +.                                  #
              2 1 $!                               2 1 4       3       1       1              3               3              !
              # .                                  #                                   # .                                  #
              1                                                $       1
                                             # .                               ##
                              # %
                              $/
                      #       !          0
              *
              1                 !             1    $           2 1 $!          $              1       $                         5
                                             .                                                                        .
                          !          1             !     1     1               1                      2 1              0
                                                                       .                                      #
              $!      $          1   $       2 1   !     2 1               0                  1        1              !
                                #.                             *                                      *.
              1       2 1 3          !       $!    $      1    2 1             1                      1
                      .                                  ..                                   %
                                     2 1 2 1        !    2 1 $                                $!      1       !       1      !
              %.                                   &                                   &.                                   ,
                          !                  2 1       0 3             $                      !               2 1       0
                                             ,.                                +                                      +.
                  !       2 1    1       5                     2 1         1          $       $               $        1    $
                                                                                   $ 5

                                                                      .
<removed-date>
              $       2 1     1    1       $             2 1 $!            $!      $         $               $               0
                               .                                                                         .
              !             4      1                 5   ! $          1    2 1       !               2 1 2 1 2 1             0
                      #                                  #.                                  *
              2 1           3      1           0 $       1    2 1     1    $!                    0           2 1    0    1
               *.                                 .                                  ..                                  %
<removed-apn>
              2 1     1     2 1 3                1            !            $           5     1       1       1     $!
                                           %.                               &                                       &.
                      !     $!      5 2 1 2 1                 2 1          !       2 1 2 1 3                 1      0        0
                                   ,                                  ,.                                     +
                              1            1                               2 1                               1           $
                              +.                                                                         .
              1       $       1    1             !       1                 !                 1       1       $      5    1
                                                          .
              $       1     2 1            !             $    $                5     1       1       4       !
                  .                              #                                   #.                                  *
              1       2 1                  !                  2 1          1       $!                $              0    1
                                           *.                              .                                       ..
              1       2 1     1     0      1                  1       1 $            1                                   !
                                   %                                  %.                                     &
              !       $     $   4                    0         0      1            $!        $!
                             &.                               ,                                      ,.
                      !     2 1        0                  5       0   1    1         1               2 1 $!
                      +                                  +.                                  #
                      2 1 4        3       1      1           3            3                 !       1
              # .                                #                                 # .                                   #
                                   $        1
                                           # .
                          #
                          #&&
                          $/
                  #       !            0
              *           #
              1               !             1    $            2 1 $!       $                     1   $                       5
                                           .                                                                        .
                                                                               $ 5       #

<removed-date>
                      !               1     1       !     1       1               1                      2 1                  0
                                                                          .                                       #
              $!      $        1      $     2 1     !     2 1                 0                     1     1               !
                              #.                                  *                                      *.
              1       2 1 3           !     $!      $      1      2 1             1                      1
                      .                                   ..                                        %
                                      2 1 2 1        !    2 1 $                                          1        !       1        !
<removed-apn>
              %.                                    &                                     &.                                      ,
                      !                     2 1           3               $                         !             2 1       0
                                            ,.                                    +                                       +.
                  5 2 1       1                     !     $               1           0     !       !    3        !               $
                                                                           .
                  5           $       1     $                                 0   !       $         $    $                $           5
                                  .                                                                          .
                      $       1       $                               0   !       $       $         $             $           5
                       #                                  #.                                         *
              $       1       $                               0   !       $       $       $              $            5           $
               *.                                   .                                      ..                                      %
              1       $       1                     1     1       $               2 1 $!                 $!       $       $
                                            %.                                     &                                       &.
              $                   0   !             4     1                5      !       $         1    2 1      !               2 1
                                      ,                                   ,.                                      +
              2 1 2 1          0 2 1                3     1           0 $         1       2 1       1    $!                   0
                              +.                                                                           .
              2 1         0   1       2 1   1       2 1 3                 1                 !            $            5   1       1
                                                              .
              1                             !       $!        5 2 1 2 1                   2 1            !        2 1             3
               .                                     #                                     #.                                      *
              1           0       0                 1             1                                      2 1
                                            *.                                    .                                       ..
              1               $       1     $       1     1               !       1                      !                1       1
                                      %                                   %.                                      &
              $           5    1 $              1   2 1               !           $       $                   5       1       1   4
                               &.                                     ,                                      ,.
                                                                                      $ 5       *

              !                    1       2 1                  !                       2 1         1        $!            $
<removed-date>
                       +                                +.                                      #
                        0      1   1       2 1    1         0   1                        1      1   $        1
              # .                                #                                      # .                                #
                               !   !       $   $       4                    0               0   1            $!    $!
                                           # .                                  ##                                 ##.
                                           !     2 1        0                       5       0   1   1         1            1
                                   #*                                   #*.                                  #.
<removed-apn>
              $!                           2 1 4       3         1      1               3             5 $!         !       1
                            #..                                 #%                                  #%.
                                                       $        1
                    #&                                 #&.
                           *
                           # &
                           $/
                   #       !           0
              *            *
              1                !            1    $              2 1 $!          $               1   $                          5
                                           .                                                                       .
                       !           1             !      1       1               1                   2 1                0
                                                                        .                                    #
              $!    $        1     $       2 1   !     2 1                  0                   1    1             !
                            #.                                  *                                   *.
              1     2 1 3          !       $!    $      1       2 1             1                   1
                    .                                  ..                                       %
                                   2 1 2 1        !    2 1 $                                        1        !              !
              %.                                 &                                      &.                                 ,
                       !                   2 1       0 3                $                       !            2 1     0
                                           ,.                                   +                                  +.
               5 2 1           1                        1       $       $               $                    $     1       $
                                                                            .
              1     $!             1       1     $              2 1 $!                  $!      $   $              $
                               .                                                                        .
               0       !           4       1             5      !       $       1       2 1     !            2 1 2 1 2 1
                       #                                #.                                      *
                0 2 1                  1    1         0 $           1   2 1         1  $!                0         2 1          0
               *.                                    .                                  ..                                     %
                                                                                    $ 5 .

<removed-date>
              1       2 1      1    2 1 3                1             !               $             5   1       1    1 $!
                                         %.                                    &                                      &.
                               !                5 2 1 2 1              2 1               !       2 1             3    1           0
                                    ,                                   ,.                                        +
                  0                 1               1                                  2 1                            1
                               +.                                                                            .
<removed-apn>
              $                     1       1            !     1                         1               1       1    $           5
                                                          .
              1 $              1    2 1             !          $       $                 1       1       1       4    !
               .                                    #                                    #.                                   *
                       1    2 1                     !                  2 1               1       $!              $                0
                                            *.                                 .                                      ..
              1        1    2 1     1           0   1                  1       1       $         1
                                    %                                  %.                                        &
              !        !    $   $           2 1           0                0   1                 $!      $!
                             &.                                ,                                          ,.
                  5            !    2 1         0                  5       0   1         1        1              2 1 $!
                       +                                 +.                                      #
                            2 1 4           3        1   1             3               3                 !       1
              # .                                   #                                  # .                                    #
                                                    1
                                            # .
                           .
                           ##
                           $/
                   #       !            0
              *            .
              1                !             1      $          2 1 $!          $                 1       $
                                            .                                                                         .
                       !            1       1       !    1     1               1                         2 1              0
                                                                       .                                         #
              $!      $      1      $       2 1     !    2 1               0                     1        1           !
                            #.                                 *                                         *.
              1       2 1 3             !   $!      $     1    2 1                 1                         1
                      .                                  ..                                      %
                                                                                   $ 5       %

                                   2 1 2 1        !    2 1 $                                           1    !       1      !
<removed-date>
              %.                                 &                                   &.                                   ,
                    1                      2 1         3             $                         !            2 1       0
                                           ,.                                +                                      +.
                  5 2 1       1    $                             0           !       3         !            $       $
                                                                         .
              $     1     $        1                   1     1       $               2 1 $!                 $!      $     $
                              .                                                                        .
<removed-apn>
                   $                   0   !           4     1                   5     !       $       1    2 1     !
                    #                                   #.                                      *
              2 1 2 1 2 1              0 2 1           3     1           0 $           1 2 1                $!             0
               *.                                .                                     ..                                 %
                   2 1        0    1       2 1   1     2 1 3                 1                 !            $        5    1
                                            %.                               &                                      &.
              1     1                            !               5 2 1 2 1                     2 1          !       2 1
                                   ,                                ,.                                      +
              3     1          0       0               1             1                                      2 1
                              +.                                                                       .
                    1              $       1     $     1     1               !         1                    1             1
                                                        .
              1 $             5    1       $     1     2 1           !               $   $                      5   1     1
               .                                 #                                    #.                                  *
              4     !                      1 2 1                     !                         2 1          1       $!
                                           *.                                .                                       ..
              $               0    1       1     2 1   1         0   1                         1       1    $       1
                                   %                                 %.                                      &
                                   !       !     $     $     2 1                 0                 0   1            $!    $!
                              &.                              ,                                        ,.
                                                 !     2 1       0                       5         0   1    1       1
                    +                                   +.                                     #
              2 1 $!                             2 1 4       3       1       1                 3            3              !
              # .                                #                                   # .                                  #
              1                                              $       1
                                           # .                               ##
                          %
                                                                                 $ 5       &

                           *.*
<removed-date>
                           $/
                   #       !           0
              *            %
              2 1      1              2 1    1               1       1       1       2 1 2 1           1     $       1      5
                                            .                                                                              .
                          5                          1       1               1       $!        !       $!             !            1
                                                                             .                                       #
<removed-apn>
              4       3         0 2 1           5    1       1       $       1                 1              1          0 2 1     1
                              #.                                     *                                       *.
              2 1      1          0    0        0    1                                                  1        0        2 1
                      .                                      ..                                        %
               1          5 $!        !     1                    5       0                                   !
              %.                                     &                                     &.                                      ,
              1       4                                  5   1       1           0    !        1       2 1                         1
                                            ,.                                       +                                    +.
                  5       0    1      1     !        4       2 1         5   1 2 1 4                             0        $!           0
                                                                              .
                          0    1      1     1        !               2 1     !       2 1                     1             !
                                .                                                                             .
              1       $               2 1 $!         $               1       $                                       !             1
                       #                                     #.                                        *
              1        !       1      1              1                       2 1                0            $!      $     1       $
              *.                                     .                                         ..                                   %
              2 1      !      2 1            0                       1       1                 !             1       2 1 3         !
                                            %.                                       &                                    &.
              $!      $        1      2 1            1                       1                                                     2 1
                                       ,                                     ,.                                      +
              2 1      !      2 1 $                                          1       !         1       !             1
                               +.                                                                                .
              2 1             3             $                        !               2 1       0                 5 2 1     1       $
                                                                 .
                                       0             !       3       !               $     $                 $       1    $        1
                  .                                  #                                      #.                                     *
                               1       1    $                2 1 $!                  $!    $           $             $                  0
                                                *.                                    .                                       ..
                                                                                         $ 5       ,

<removed-date>
              !               4       1                 5    !       $       1 2 1           !               2 1 2 1 2 1                 0
                                      %                                      %.                                   &
              2 1             3       1           0 $        1       2 1           $!                    0           2 1         0   1
                               &.                                     ,                                      ,.
              2 1         1   2 1 3                 1                !             $         5        1      1       1
                          +                                  +.                                      #
                          !               5 2 1 2 1                  2 1           !       2 1               3       1           0       0
<removed-apn>
              # .                               #                                          # .                                       #
                                  1            1                                   2 1                               1               $
                                              # .                                  ##                                        ##.
              1       $           1    1            !        1                     1                 1       1       $           5   1
                                      #*                                     #*.                                     #.
              $           1   2 1             !              $       $                 5     0       1               !
                              #..                                    #%                                      #%.
              1       2 1                     !                      2 1           1       $!                $                   0   1
                      #&                                     #&.                                     #,
               1 2 1              1       0   1                      1       1     $        1                                         !
              #,.                                   #+                                     #+.                                       *
              !       $       $       2 1               0                0   1             $!        $!
                                              * .                                  *                                         * .
                          !   2 1         0                      5       0    1    1         1               2 1 $!
                                      *                                      * .                                 *#
                      2 1 4   3               1     1                3             3                 !        1
                          *#.                                        **                                      **.
                                      $       1
                      *.
                              &
                              +&
                              $/
                      #       !           0
              *               &
                      2 1             3             $                        !             2 1           0               5 2 1       1
                                              .                                                                             .
                                  !   $             1            0   !       !     3         !               $           5           $
                                                                             .                                       #
                  1       $                              0       !   $       $     $                 $           5           $           1
                                                                                       $ 5       +

                              #.                                *                                       *.
<removed-date>
              $                            0    !       $       $       $               $           5           $     1       $
                      .                                 ..                                      %
                                     0    !     $       $       $               $         5             $       1    $         1
              %.                                &                                       &.                                    ,
                               1    1     $             2 1 $!                  $!      $       $               $                 0
                                          ,.                                    +                                    +.
<removed-apn>
              !
                           ,
                           *.
                           $/
                   #       !         0
              *            ,
              2 1      1            2 1    1            1       1       1       2 1 2 1         1       $       1      5
                                          .                                                                           .
                          5                     1       1               1       $!      !       $!               !            1
                                                                        .                                       #
              4       3         0 2 1      5    1       1       $       1               1                1          0 2 1     1
                              #.                                *                                       *.
              2 1      1        0    0     0    1                                                1          0        2 1
                      .                                 ..                                      %
               1          5 $!      !     1                 5       0                                   !
              %.                                &                                       &.                                    ,
              1       4                             5   1       1           0    !      1       2 1                           1
                                          ,.                                    +                                    +.
                  5       0    1    1     !     4       2 1         5   1 2 1 4                             0        $!           0
                                                                         .
                          0    1    1     1     !               2 1     !       2 1                     1             !
                                .                                                                        .
              1       $             2 1 $!      $               1       $                        5              !             1
                       #                                #.                                      *
              1        !       1    1           1                       2 1              0              $!      $     1       $
              *.                                .                                       ..                                     %
              2 1      !      2 1           0                       1       1               !               1   2 1 3             !
                                           %.                                       &                                    &.
                                                                                $ 5

<removed-date>
              $!      $     1      2 1             1                    1                                                2 1
                                    ,                                   ,.                                    +
              2 1     !    2 1 $                                        1       !               !             !
                            +.                                                                            .
              2 1          3               $                    !               2 1         0             5 2 1    1
                                                            .
                            1      $       $            $                       $       1 $           1       $!         1
<removed-apn>
                  .                                #                                    #.                               *
              1       $            2 1 $!               $!      $       $               $                 0   !          4
                                        *.                                      .                                  ..
              1                5   !       $       1    2 1     !               2 1 2 1 2 1               0 2 1          1
                                   %                                    %.                                   &
              1           0 $      1       2 1     1    $!                  0           2 1      0    1 2 1        1     2 1
                             &.                                 ,                                     ,.
              3             1              !            $           5   1       1       1       $!                 !
                      +                                  +.                                     #
                5 2 1 2 1                  2 1          !       2 1             3        1       0        0               1
              # .                                  #                                    # .                              #
                      1                                 2 1                             1             $                  1
                                           # .                                  ##                                 ##.
              1             !       1                   1                1      1       $        5    1       $    1     2 1
                                   #*                                   #*.                                   #.
                      !            $       $            1        1      1       4       !                     1    2 1
                           #..                                  #%                                    #%.
                       !                   2 1           1 $!                   $                 0   1       1    2 1   1
                      #&                                #&.                                     #,
                0     1                    1        1   $       1                                     !       !    $     $
              #,.                                  #+                                   #+.                              *
              2 1              0             0     1            $!      $!                                5         ! 2 1
                                           * .                                  *                                  * .
                  0                    5       0   1    1       1               2 1 $!                             2 1 4
                                   *                                    * .                                   *#
              3        1     1             3            3                   !       1
                            *#.                                 **                                    **.
                                                                                $ 5

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             1
                            *.
$ 5

