                                          ABSTRACT
In order to improve the safety and handling of a brazier (1) for burning wood and similar
fuels, comprising a substantially pot-shaped basket (2) and a fire pan (4), it is suggested that
the fire pan (4) is mounted on the basket (2) such that these can pivot relative to one another,
particularly tipping by 180' or "overend" from the operating position into a fire-extinguishing
position, the basket (2) that lies above when in said extinguishing position serving as the
cover hood that puts out the fire. This brazier can also be in the form of a tea light, a standard
or table lamp or a pendant lamp.

                                                  1
Description:
                                               Brazier
The invention relates to a brazier for burning wood and similar fuels, with the preamble
features of claim 1.
Such braziers are used outdoors (garden, terrace, etc.) in the manner of mobile fires. Thus,
DE 202 10 747 U1 discloses a "pot-shaped" brazier with a grill having a slotted jacket, so
that sufficient air reaches the fuel. The problem, however, is that embers can fall out of the
brazier, so that refractory substrates (stone slabs, gravel, etc.) are required to avoid fire
damages. This also applies to extinguishing of the fire, e.g. after the end of a garden party,
when the brazier is usually without supervision and even without added fuel, the fire can flare
up again, especially in wind. In addition, the disposal of the fire, f. i. the next day, is quite
cumbersome because the bottom of the brazier is relatively low and thus difficult to clean.
This also applies to a charcoal lighter according to US 3,167,040 or a furnace according to
US 3,318,300, wherein the fire is extinguished by sand, which is then difficult to dispose of.
Thus, such a brazier should be improved in safety and handling.
This object is solved with the features of claim 1. Advantageous embodiments are the
subject of dependent claims.
The proposed brazier can be manufactured in a relatively inexpensive and stable manner, in
particular made of sheet steel and can be used as a outdoor grill, as well. In this case,
company logos etc. can be stamped or cut into the outer wall of the housing-like basket. Due
to the pivotal mounting of the pan-shaped fire pan, the ground is protected from fire
damages. In addition, due to the downwardly closed shape of the bowl-shaped fire pan, the
fire material cannot fall out of the brazier. Thus, users are also protected from burn injuries.
The pivotally mounted fire pan provides a safe cooling-down of the fire after operation of the
brazier, since remaining embers are safely encased by the "top over" of the basket by 180'
or "overhead" tilting at the periphery, so that flying sparks or a flare-up can be ruled out.
Surprisingly, it was found that the basket on top of the tilting bowl virtually completely
encases the fire pan and smothers the smouldering fuel. Even if the sealing is not 100% at
the edges, the resulting carbon monoxide sinks down and thus blocks air supply to the fire
pan and the fuel in it. As table lamps or so-called tea lights have a similar structure, the

                                                   2
invention is also applicable to such lamps or lights, as they form smaller-sized fire pans, even
if they are usually operated with oil or wax instead of wood-like fuels.
Due to the openings provided on the basket periphery the pleasant impression of an open
fire is created during operation of the brazier. After the tilting of the basket, preferably in
cube-like shape, such openings support the cooling-down of the fire pan and the remains of
fire therein. This can be done relatively quickly, since the basket and the fire pan are made of
sheet steel, possibly also made of stainless steel or aluminium in a conical form, thus
providing a large heat sink area (after extinction of the fire).
For later cleaning of the brazier, e.g. the following day, the fire pan has preferably two
handles, making it easy to remove it out of the basket and clean it separately. Preferably
bearings are integrally formed at the fire pan (near the handles), which allow simple lifting of
the fire pan and form at the same time a pivotal mounting of the fire pan.
In addition, the brazier or its jacket-shaped basket can be closed with a lid at the upper end,
which particularly forms a seat. In the operating position of the brazier the lower end
preferably includes two support strips, which are integrally formed at the basket by bending
and punching of the basket plate. The bottom of the basket can also be largely closed, so as
to form in the extinguishing position an overhead cover at which carbon monoxide
accumulates and then sinks down to extinguish the fire without additives. The support strips
run parallel to the pivot bearings arranged in the middle height range of the brazier, so that
the fire pan remains in a horizontal position (without fuel falling out) on tilting the basket
around the edge of one support strip of the brazier.
The two support strips on opposite side walls also create a distance from the ground at the
lower part of the brazier, so that combustion air is supplied from this partially open bottom of
the brazier to a circumferential gap between the inside of the basket and the outer periphery
of the fire pan including stacked fuel. In addition, this increases the distance to the ground,
so that e.g. a wooden terrace is not overheated. Thus, safe firing is achieved, which can also
be used for barbecue purposes, as a grill pad can be placed on the basket, especially in rust
form, or a stone slab. In order to control the distance to the embers in the fire pan, a grill
support for height adjustment can be inserted in height-offset openings.
Such "bent" support strips allow stacking of plural braziers one above the other, as the
support strips provide a positive engagement, so that relatively high, but stable columns can
be erected in this way, f. i. to increase the illumination effect by burning fires at several

                                                  3
levels. At larger evening events, this results in special lighting effects by the "open" fires on
several levels, as well as a pleasant heat development, e.g. at 0.7 and 1.4 meters height
from the ground, especially at cooler outdoor temperatures. In addition, the braziers can be
stored in a space-saving manner.
Further advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following description of
embodiments with reference to the drawings. They show in:
Fig. 1 a perspective view of a brazier in two positions,
Fig. 2 a perspective view of the brazier of Fig. 1 when transferred from its operating position
in a tilted fire extinguishing position,
Fig. 3 an interior view of the brazier;
Fig. 4 a perspective view of the brazier with a grill,
Fig. 5 perspective views with two stacked braziers, and
Fig. 6 a modification formed as a table lamp brazier.
Fig. 1 shows a brazier 1 for burning wood or combustion of similar fuels (such as charcoal)
and consists of a parallelepiped basket 2, surrounding a fire pan 4. The basket 2 is
preferably made of metal, such as steel sheet, and has in its upper area a plurality of
(punched out) openings 3, so that a burning fire in the fire pan 4 is well visible and illuminate
and/or heats the environment. The slot-like openings 3 also serve that children cannot reach
the open flame and partly to combustion air supply. However, a large part of the combustion
air is sucked in at the bottom of the basket 2, which thus acts in the manner of a chimney, as
the lower area of the largely closed basket 2 and the outer periphery of the fire pan 4 (with
the fuel stacked therein) provide a circumferential gap for air supply to ensure a uniform
combustion. The air supply is preferably increased by two support strips 2a on opposite
sidewalls of the basket 2 in the lower region of the brazier 1, such that a gap distance to the
footprint (ground) is maintained. Thus, safe firing is achieved, which can also be used for
barbecue purposes (cf. Fig. 4 with a rust-shaped grill support).
Here, the basket 2 and its wall is formed in a cube shape and preferably consists of a steel
sheet, in the upper half of which the apertures or openings 3 are punched or formed by laser
or the like. This results in a stable construction of the basket 2, which also serves as an
enclosure for the fire pan 4 mounted therein. The fire pan 4 has a slightly smaller base area
(cf. the above-mentioned circumferential gap) so as to be able to pivot within the basket 2 in
the manner of a swing. This is provided by two pivot bearings S, wherein the pivot axis (see
Fig. 3) is aligned in approximately half the height of the basket 2 parallel to the support strips
2a. Thus, the brazier 1 can be tilted from its operating position (B) shown here on the left, in

                                                   4
which the fire burns to generate heat and/or light, "overhead" to a fire extinguishing position
(L), right here. On this movement, the fire pan 4 (visible here through the slits 3) always
remains in a swinging, horizontal position, so that fuel cannot fall out. In the extinguishing
position L the fire pan 4 receives little or no supply air, so that the fire suffocates. In this case,
the bottom 2b (in position B) forms a top cover in position L, so that the fire pan 4 produces
mainly exhaust gases (carbon monoxide) and smother the fire quickly.
Fig. 2 shows this tilting of the brazier 1, preferably by about 180'. Thus, the basket 2 shown
on the left (similar to the position B in Fig. 1) can be gripped at its lower end, preferably on
one of the support strips 2a and tilted around the other support strip 2a by 90' (arrow X).
Thus, a sidewall of the basket 2 becomes the floor for a short time. Further tilting in the same
direction then results in the position shown in Fig. 2 (here with approx. 150' tilt angle with
respect to the operating position in Fig. 1) and finally when lowering onto a support reaching
the position L (automatic extinguishing position) according to Fig. 1.
Fig. 2 with the intermediate position shows that the fire pan 4 as a swing or cradle always
remains in a horizontal orientation, so that fire material or ember is not lost. If the tilting of the
brazier 1 with respect to the position in Fig. 2 is continued by a further 30', as indicated by
the arrow Y, the basket 2 then stands on the "open" region provided with the apertures 3 (cf.
Fig. 1, right half). As a result, the funnel-shaped fire pan 4 is cooled from below (natural air
flow or wind), while the top of the fire pan 4 is covered by the (largely) closed, now overhead
area (bottom 2b) of the basket 2. Thus, even in windy conditions, there's no risk of sparks
flying from the remaining embers. Rather, the smoke suffocates the fire very quickly in the
basket 2, now serving as a "cover". In addition, even rain does not soak the fire pan 4 and
the ashes therein, so that cleaning, f. i. the next day, is much easier. For this purpose,
handles 4a (cf. Fig. 3, as well) are preferably formed on the fire pan 4 as wire bending parts
as well as bearing eyes 4b for pivotally mounting the fire pan 4 about the axis of the pivot
bearings S. Gripping at the handles 4a, the fire pan 4 can be easily removed from the basket
2 for emptying the ash.
Fig. 3 is a view into the interior of the brazier 1 from above, showing one of the handles 4a
and a bearing eye 4b of the pivot bearing S. Fig. 4 shows the operating position analogous to
Fig. 1, wherein a grill pad 6 is placed on the basket 2, in particular in rust form. The grill pad
6 can be inserted for height adjustment in different openings 3, e.g. inserted in one of the
lower rows for higher heat demand.

                                                    5
In Fig. 5, two braziers 1 are stacked one above the other, wherein a lid 5 can be placed on
the upper basket 2, for forming e.g. an elevated seat or table surface, while in the right half
two of the braziers 1, as described above, are stacked in the opposite direction. As
mentioned, the baskets 2 are positively positioned by the bended support strips 2a to form a
stable column (f. i. also for storage). The above-mentioned lid 5 can also be mounted on the
side including the support strips 2a, wherein the lid 5 can be inserted in the manner of a
dovetail guide between the support strips 2a. This results in an exact positioning. In the
stacking position shown in Fig. 5, the respective fire pans 4 provide increased lighting effects
and heat radiation due to the openings 3, as desirable for cool evenings.
This increased lighting effect is often also desired in so-called "tea lights", which are also
used as table lamps, so to represent a "small" brazier. In this case, namely the operating
position, an upper region 11 a is usually formed as a glass tube, as shown in Fig. 6. The
lower portion 11 b of the tea light 11 (as a small version of the brazier 1) is usually made of
heavy metal or solid ceramic for reasons of stability, wherein both elements 11 a, b are
connected to form the above-described basket 2 via a plug connection or a thread. At the
dividing plane, a small fire pan 4 is also provided, which is mounted cradle-like on pivot
bearings S. In this fire pan 4, a wax is used here, which is ignited at a wick to generate a
flame, as sketched.
To extinguish the flame, the tea light 11 as a modified brazier 1 is rotated "overhead", namely
about the axis of the pivot bearings S, so that the glass tube 11 a is then below and the area
11 b is above. The fire pan 4 carries out this tilting in unchanged horizontal position, so that
the flame then hits the (closed) bottom 2b of the element 11 b and - as described above for
Fig. 1 to 5 - is then quickly extinguished for lack of air. This principle can also be used for
floor lamps (cf. Fig. 5 with increased lighting effect) or wall hanging lamps, with extinguishing
the lamp when the housing or basket 2 is rotated overhead, but the fire pan 4 therein
remains in a horizontal position. Thus, oil can be used as well, which is filled in the fire pan 4
(e.g. at historic festivals). If pivoting about the axis of bearings S is too vehement with a
cylindrically shaped housing, it might be recommendable to fill-up oil only to half the filling
level. By the preferred parallel alignment of the pivot bearing S to a side edge of the (cuboid)
basket 2, in particular a support strip 2a, tilting movement (cf. arrows X and Y in Fig. 2) can
be performed very smoothly, so that larger filling heights are possible without spilling fuel
from the fire pan 4.

                                                                             PCT/EP2016/001371
Claims:
1. Brazier for burning wood and similar fuels, with a largely pot-shaped basket (2) and a fire
pan (4),
characterized in that
the fire pan (4) is pivotally mounted at the basket (2) relative to each other, to be tilted, in
particular by 180', from an operating position to a fire-extinguishing position, wherein the
basket (2) is located at the top in the fire-extinguishing position to serve as fire suffocating
cover.
2. Brazier according to claim 1, characterized in that the basket (2) has a plurality of
openings (3).
3. Brazier according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the basket (2) is cube-shaped.
4. Brazier according to one of claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the fire pan (4) is preferably
conical or cone-shaped.
5. Brazier according to one of claims 1 to 4, characterized in that the fire pan (4) has handles
(4a).
6. Brazier according to claim 5, characterized in that pivot bearings (S) of the fire pan (4) are
arranged adjacent to the handles (4a), in particular are integrally formed at the fire pan (4).
7. Brazier according to one of claims 1 to 6, characterized in that the basket (2) is closable
with a lid (5), which forms in particular a seat.
8. Brazier according to one of claims 1 to 7, characterized in that the basket (2) has
supporting strips (2a), which are in particular integrally formed.
9. Brazier according to one of claims 1 to 8, characterized in that a circumferential gap is
provided between the inside of the basket (2) and the outer periphery of the fire pan (4), in
particular for supplying combustion air from the partially open bottom of the basket (2).
10. Brazier according to one of claims 1 to 9, characterized in that a grill pad (6) can be
placed on the basket (2), in particular in rust form.

11. Brazier according to claim 2 and 10, characterized in that the grill pad (6) can be inserted
in different ones of the openings (3) for height adjustment
12. Brazier according to one of claims 8 to 11, characterized in that a plurality of braziers (1)
are stackable as column, one above the other, in particular positively engaged by support
strips (2a).
13. Brazier according to one of claims 1 to 8, characterized in that the brazier (1) is shaped
as a tea light (11), a floor lamp or a hanging lamp.
14. Brazier according to claim 13, characterized in that in the fire pan (4) is filled with oil or
wax, in particular having a wick in the center for lighting the fire.
15. Brazier according to one of claims 1 to 14, characterized in that the basket (2) consists of
metal or ceramic, in particular with an integrally formed, at least substantially closed bottom
(2b).

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
