ABSTRACT
Inventive concentrated solar power systems using solar receivers, and related devices and
methods, are generally described. See Fig. 7A.

WO 2013/142275                  PCT/US2013/031627
                   14/33
                                                  LL
               too
                         0
                           0
                             C4

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
       MULTI-THERMAL STORAGE UNIT SYSTEMS, FLUID FLOW CONTROL
     DEVICES, AND LOW PRESSURE SOLAR RECEIVERS FOR SOLAR POWER
           SYSTEMS, AND RELATED COMPONENTS AND USES THEREOF
 5                                 RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. §119(e) to U.S. Provisional
    Patent Application Serial No. 61/613,948, filed March 21, 2012, and entitled "Multi
    Thermal Storage Unit Systems and Related Components"; U.S. Provisional Patent
    Application Serial No. 61/613,947, filed March 21, 2012, and entitled "Fluid Flow
10  Control Devices for Solar Power Systems"; U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial
    No. 61/613,950, filed March 21, 2012, and entitled "Low Pressure Solar Receivers with
    Double-Walled Windows and Uses Thereof'; and U.S. Provisional Patent Application
    Serial No. 61/613,954 filed March 21, 2012, and entitled "Low Pressure Solar Receivers
    with Segmented Windows and Uses Thereof." Each of these applications is incorporated
15  herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.
                                      FIELD OF INVENTION
            Systems, devices, and methods related to concentrated solar power generation
    using solar receivers are generally described.
20
                                          BACKGROUND
            Mounting concerns over the effect of greenhouse gases on global climate have
    stimulated research focused on limiting greenhouse gas emissions. Solar power
    generation is particularly appealing because substantially no greenhouse gases are
25  produced at the power generation source.
            Concentrated solar power (CSP) generation using solar receivers is known in the
    art. Briefly, concentrated solar power systems use lenses, mirrors, or other elements to
    focus sunlight incident on a relatively large area onto a small area called a solar receiver.
    The concentrated sunlight can be used to heat a fluid within the solar receiver. The fluid
30  heated within the solar receiver can be used to drive a turbine to generate power.

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  -2
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             Inventive concentrated solar power systems using solar receivers, and related
    devices and methods, are generally described. In some embodiments, the concentrated
    solar power systems include one or more low pressure solar receivers. In some
 5  embodiments, the concentrated solar power systems include one or more low pressure
    solar receivers that operate at or below atmospheric pressure. In addition, inventive solar
    power systems and methods making use of multiple thermal storage units are provided,
    which can be useful, for example, in providing substantially continuous operation.
    Systems and methods in which the solar receiver and the turbine are kept fluidically
10  isolated from each other are also described. In some embodiments, fluid flow control
    devices are provided that facilitate switching of airflow between or among one or more
    thermal storage systems and one or more heat exchange systems used to transfer heat
    from a low-pressure fluid (e.g., at or below about 2 atmospheres) to a high-pressure
    Brayton cycle fluid (e.g., above about 2 atmospheres).
15           In one aspect, a power generation system is provided. The power generation
    comprises, in some embodiments, a solar receiver, a compressor, a turbine, a first
    thermal storage system, a second thermal storage system, and a valving subsystem. In
    certain embodiments, the valving subsystem is configured such that in a first valving
    position, a first fluidic pathway is present between the solar receiver and the first thermal
20  storage system, and a second fluidic pathway is present between the compressor, the
    turbine, and the second thermal storage system; and in a second valving position, a third
    fluidic pathway is present between the solar receiver and the second thermal storage
    system, and a fourth fluidic pathway is present between the compressor, the turbine, and
    the first thermal storage system.
25           In some embodiments, the power generation system comprises a first fluidic
    pathway fluidically interconnecting a solar receiver and a first thermal storage system;
    and a second fluidic pathway fluidically interconnecting a compressor, a turbine, and a
    second thermal storage system. In certain embodiments, the first thermal storage system
    is fluidically isolated from the second thermal storage system. In some embodiments,
30  the system is configured such that the solar receiver heats fluid within the first fluidic
    pathway during at least a portion of the time during which the turbine is used to generate
    power using fluid within the second fluidic pathway.

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  -3
             In certain embodiments, a fluid flow control device is provided. The fluid flow
    control device comprises, in certain embodiments, a housing constructed of an
    investment casted metal alloy and defining a fluid chamber, the fluid chamber having a
    first opening, a second opening, and a third opening, each opening being configured to
 5  permit flow of a fluid into or out from the fluid chamber; a disc-shaped member having a
    circumferential surface about which are positioned one or more removable
    circumferential sealing elements, the disc-shaped member being rotatably positioned
    within the fluid chamber such that each of the one or more circumferential sealing
    elements interfaces with an inner surface of the fluid chamber, and such that in a first
10  operating position the disc-shaped member defines within the fluid chamber a fluid flow
    path between the first and second openings that is fluidically isolated from the third
    opening, and in a second operating position the disc-shaped member defines within the
    fluid chamber a fluid flow path between the second and third openings that is fluidically
    isolated from the first opening; and a stem component having a first end positioned
15  outside the fluid chamber, an elongated shaft extending through a passage through the
    housing into the fluid chamber, and a second end connected to the disc-shaped member
    inside the fluid chamber, the stem component being configured such that rotation of the
    stem component causes the disc-shaped member to rotate within the fluid chamber
    between at least the first and second operating positions, wherein the fluid-flow device is
20  configured to operate at a temperature in a range of 1000 'F to 2500 'F.
             In some embodiments, the fluid flow control device comprises a housing defining
    a fluid chamber, the fluid chamber having a first opening, a second opening, and a third
    opening, each opening being configured to permit flow of a fluid into or out from the
    fluid chamber; a disc-shaped member having a circumferential surface about which are
25  positioned at least two circumferential sealing elements, the disc-shaped member being
    rotatably positioned within the fluid chamber such that the each of the at least two
    circumferential sealing elements interfaces with an inner surface of the fluid chamber,
    and such that in a first operating position the disc-shaped member defines within the
    fluid chamber a fluid flow path between the first and second openings that is fluidically
30  isolated from the third opening, and in a second operating position the disc-shaped
    member defines within the fluid chamber a fluid flow path between the second and third
    openings that is fluidically isolated from the first opening; and a stem component having
    a first end positioned outside the fluid chamber, an elongated shaft extending through a

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  -4
    passage through the housing into the fluid chamber, and a second end connected to the
    disc-shaped member inside the fluid chamber, the stem component being configured
    such that rotation of the stem component causes the disc-shaped member to rotate within
    the fluid chamber between at least the first and second operating positions. In some such
 5  embodiments, the fluid-flow device is configured to operate at a temperature in a range
    of 1000 F to 2500 F, and wherein the at least two circumferential sealing elements are
    positioned on opposite sides of where the stem component connects to the disc-shaped
    member, optionally wherein the two circumferential sealing elements are constructed of
    a cobalt base material.
10          The fluid flow control device comprises, in some embodiments, a housing
    constructed of a precision investment casted metal alloy and defining a fluid chamber,
    the fluid chamber having a first opening and a second opening, each opening being
    configured to permit flow of a fluid into or out from the fluid chamber; a disc-shaped
    member having a circumferential surface about which are positioned one or more
15  circumferential sealing elements, the disc-shaped member being rotatably positioned
    within the fluid chamber such that each of the one or more circumferential sealing
    elements interfaces with an inner surface of the fluid chamber, and such that in a first
    operating position a fluid flow path exists between the first and second openings, and in
    a second operating position the disc-shaped member fluidically isolates the first and
20  second openings; and a stem component having at least one end positioned outside the
    fluid chamber, and an elongated shaft extending through at least one passage through the
    housing into the fluid chamber, the stem component being connected to the disc-shaped
    member inside the fluid chamber and being configured such that rotation of the stem
    component causes the disc-shaped member to rotate within the fluid chamber between at
25  least the first and second operating positions. In certain such embodiments, the fluid
    flow device is configured to operate at a temperature in a range of 1000 F to 2500 F.
            In one set of embodiments, a solar receiver is provided which comprises a low
    pressure fluid chamber configured for operating at pressures up to 2 atmospheres, and
    comprising a fluid inlet, a fluid outlet, and an opening for receiving concentrated solar
30  radiation; a solar absorber housed within the low pressure fluid chamber; a first
    transparent object that defines at least a portion of a wall of the low pressure fluid
    chamber; and a second transparent object in juxtaposition with the first transparent
    object, wherein the first transparent object and the second transparent object are

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  -5
    configured such that a first fluid flow path is defined between the first transparent object
    and the second transparent object. In some such embodiments, concentrated solar
    radiation received through the opening passes through the first transparent object and
    second transparent object into the low pressure fluid chamber and impinges upon the
 5  solar absorber.
             In some embodiments, a solar receiver is provided which comprises a low
    pressure fluid chamber configured for operating at pressures up to 2 atmospheres, and
    comprising a fluid inlet, a fluid outlet, and an opening for receiving concentrated solar
    radiation; a solar absorber housed within the low pressure fluid chamber; and a plurality
10  of transparent objects that define a segmented wall of the low pressure fluid chamber. In
    some such embodiments, concentrated solar radiation received through the opening
    passes through the segmented wall and between transparent objects to pass into the low
    pressure fluid chamber and impinges upon the solar absorber.
             Other advantages and novel features of the present invention will become
15  apparent from the following detailed description of various non-limiting embodiments of
    the invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying figures. In cases
    where the present specification and a document incorporated by reference include
    conflicting and/or inconsistent disclosure, the present specification shall control. If two
    or more documents incorporated by reference include conflicting and/or inconsistent
20  disclosure with respect to each other, then the document having the later effective date
    shall control.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention will be described by way of
25  example with reference to the accompanying figures, which are schematic and are not
    intended to be drawn to scale. In the figures, each identical or nearly identical
    component illustrated is typically represented by a single numeral. For purposes of
    clarity, not every component is labeled in every figure, nor is every component of each
    embodiment of the invention shown where illustration is not necessary to allow those of
30  ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention. In the figures:
             FIGS. 1A-IC are schematic diagrams of concentrated solar power generation
    systems including low pressure solar receivers, according to one set of embodiments;

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 -6
             FIGS. 2A-2C include, according to some embodiments, exemplary schematic
    diagrams of heat recovery configurations that can be used with a concentrated solar
    power generation system;
             FIGS. 3A-3C include exemplary schematic illustrations of thermal storage units
 5  that can be used in a thermal storage system;
             FIGS. 4A-4B include, according to one set of embodiments, schematic
    illustrations of power tower systems;
             FIG. 5 includes an exemplary schematic diagram of a concentrated solar power
    generation system including a high pressure solar receiver;
10           FIG. 6 includes a schematic diagram of a concentrated solar power generation
    system including multiple solar receivers, according to some embodiments;
             FIGS. 7A-71 include exemplary schematic illustrations of low-pressure solar
    receivers;
             FIGS. 8A-8C include exemplary schematic illustrations of a secondary
15  concentrator;
             FIGS. 9A-9C include exemplary schematic illustrations of high-pressure solar
    receivers;
             FIGS. 1OA-1OF include exemplary schematic illustrations of concentrated solar
    power generation systems; and
20           FIGS. 11 A-1IC include exemplary schematic illustrations of fluid flow devices.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             Inventive concentrated solar power systems using solar receivers, and related
    devices and methods, are generally described. In some embodiments, the concentrated
25  solar power systems include a solar receiver used to heat a fluid at a relatively low
    pressure. Heat from the low-pressure fluid heated by the solar receiver can be
    transferred to a relatively high-pressure fluid, which can be used to power a gas turbine
    as part of, for example, a Brayton cycle. The heat exchange between the low- and high
    pressure fluids can be accomplished via the use of a heat exchange system. In certain
30  embodiments, heat provided by the solar receiver(s) can be transferred to a separate
    fluidic pathway in which a relatively high-pressure fluid is transported to a turbine by
    changing valve configurations between one, two, or more thermal storage systems within
    the power generation system.

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  -7
             In some embodiments, the exhaust of the gas turbine can be transported to the
    solar receiver and used as the low-pressure heated fluid. Optionally, a blower can be
    used to provide additional ambient air to the low-pressure solar receiver, which can be
    useful, for example, for regulating the flow of fluid through the system. In some
 5  embodiments, a controller can be used to regulate the flow rate of the gas from the
    blower. The controller can be constructed and arranged to adjust the flow rate of the gas
    transported from the blower to the solar receiver based at least in part on a condition of
    the gas transported from the gas turbine to the solar receiver. For example, the controller
    can be constructed and arranged such that the flow rate of the gas transported from the
10  blower to the solar receiver depends on one or more of the temperature, pressure, and/or
    flow rate of the gas transported from the gas turbine to the solar receiver.
             The low-pressure fluid from the solar receiver, in addition to providing heat to
    the high-pressure working fluid within the Brayton cycle, can be used to provide heat to
    a thermal storage system, which can operate, for example, by storing sensible heat from
15  the low-pressure fluid. The thermal storage system can be useful for operating the power
    cycle during periods of low sunlight, for example, by providing heat to the low-pressure
    fluid in addition to or in place of the heat provided by the solar receiver. In some
    embodiments, the thermal storage system can be operated at the high pressure of the
    turbine, for example, by transporting a pressurized fluid through the thermal storage unit
20  to heat the pressurized fluid prior to, for example, transporting the pressurized fluid to a
    turbine.
             In certain embodiments, multiple thermal storage systems (each of which can
    include one or more thermal storage units) can be used such that one thermal storage
    system can be used to store sensible heat provided by the solar receiver while another
25  thermal storage system can be used to provide heat to the working fluid of a Brayton
    cycle. In some such embodiments, the first thermal storage system can be operated at a
    pressure near or below atmospheric pressure while the second thermal storage system
    can be operated at an elevated pressure. By operating the power generation system in
    this way, one can eliminate the need for a heat exchange system that must exchange heat
30  between a pressurized fluid and a non-pressurized fluid, a task which is often
    challenging. In addition, operating the system in this manner can ensure that a heat
    source is always available for providing heated working fluid to the Brayton cycle.
    Thus, in some embodiments, substantially continuous operation of the Brayton cycle can

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
    be achieved without directly exchanging heat between a high-pressure fluid and a low
    pressure fluid.
             In some embodiments, the airflow from the solar receiver can be switched
    between the thermal storage system and the heat exchange system used to transfer heat
 5  from the low-pressure fluid to the high-pressure Brayton cycle fluid. In some
    embodiments, a blower can be connected to transport heated air from the thermal storage
    system into the solar receiver.
             In some embodiments, fluid flow control devices (e.g., valves, three-way valves,
    flapper valves) are provided that facilitate switching of airflow between or among one or
10  more thermal storage systems and one or more heat exchange systems used to transfer
    heat from a low-pressure fluid to a high-pressure Brayton cycle fluid. In some
    embodiments, a fluid flow control device comprises a housing defining a fluid chamber,
    in which the fluid chamber has a plurality of openings (e.g., a first opening, a second
    opening, and a third opening). In some embodiments, each opening is configured to
15  permit flow of a fluid into or out from the fluid chamber. In certain embodiments, the
    fluid flow device is configured to operate at a temperature in a range of 1000 F to 2500
     F. In certain embodiments, the fluid flow device is configured to operate at a
    temperature in a range of 1150 F to 2200 F. In certain embodiments, the fluid flow
    device is configured to operate at a temperature in a range of up to 1150 F.
20           In certain embodiments, the housing of the fluid flow device is constructed using
    precision investment casting. In some embodiments, precision investment casting is a
    casting process in which an expendable pattern is surrounded by an investment
    compound (e.g., a ceramic component) and then baked so that the investment is hardened
    to form a mold and the pattern material (e.g., a wax) is melted and removed. In such
25  embodiments, a metal (e.g., a metal alloy) is entered into the mold, and allowed to
    solidify, after which the mold is removed (e.g., by hammering the mold into pieces) to
    obtain the cast metal object.
             In some embodiments, the housing and/or other components (e.g., stem
    components, disc-shaped members) of the fluid flow control device are constructed of a
30  metal alloy. In certain embodiments, the metal alloy is a stainless steel alloy, or a nickel
    base superalloy, such as IN-718, IN-713 LC or CMSX4. In some embodiments, cobalt
    materials are used for rubbing surfaces in fluid flow devices configured to operate at high

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  -9
    temperatures because the cobalt forms a lubricating oxide layer with the oxygen in air or
    working fluid.
             In some embodiments, the fluid flow devices are insulated on the outside, which
    may facilitate internal sealing at operating temperatures & pressures.
 5           In some embodiments, the housing defines a connection interface for a fluid
    conduit at one or more of the first, second and third openings. In some embodiments, the
    connection interface is (i) a band flange, such as a "V" band flange, optionally which is
    configured for quick change assembly, (ii.) a bolted flange, optionally which is
    configured with a gasket surface, (iii.) a low pressure thermal fit/slip joint, (iv.) a male or
10  female screw-type connection interface, (v.) a radiator clamp, optionally which is
    configured for light weight ducting, or (vi.) another appropriate connection interface.
             In some embodiments, the fluid flow device also comprises a disc-shaped
    member (e.g., a flapper) having a circumferential surface about which are positioned one
    or more removable circumferential sealing elements, in which the disc-shaped member is
15  rotatably positioned within the fluid chamber such that the one or more circumferential
    sealing elements interface with an inner surface of the fluid chamber. In some
    embodiments, the disc-shaped member is rotatably positioned within the fluid chamber
    such that in a first operating position the disc-shaped member defines within the fluid
    chamber a fluid flow path (e.g., airflow path) between the first and second openings that
20  is fluidically isolated from the third opening, and in a second operating position the disc
    shaped member defines within the fluid chamber a fluid flow path (e.g., airflow path)
    between the second and third openings that is fluidically isolated from the first opening.
    In some embodiments, the one or more circumferential sealing elements are constructed
    of a cobalt base material. In some embodiments, the one or more circumferential sealing
25  elements are piston rings.
             In some embodiments, the fluid flow control device also comprises a stem
    component having a first end positioned outside the fluid chamber, an elongated shaft
    extending through a passage through the housing into the fluid chamber, and a second
    end connected to the disc-shaped member inside the fluid chamber. In some
30  embodiments, the stem component is configured such that its rotation causes the disc
    shaped member to rotate within the fluid chamber between at least the first and second
    operating positions. In some embodiments, the stem component is connected to an
    automatically controlled motor. In some embodiments, the stem component is

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 10
    configured to rotate the disc-shaped member 360 degrees. In some embodiments, the
    angle of rotation of the disc shaped member between the first and second operating
    positions is up to about 90 degrees. In some embodiments, the angle of rotation of the
    disc shaped member between the first and second operating positions is in a range of 45
 5  degrees to 60 degrees, 45 degrees to 135 degrees, or 60 degrees to 120 degrees.
             In some embodiments, the stem component passes through a bushing that is
    positioned within the passage through the housing. In some embodiments, at least a
    surface of the bushing that confronts the stem component is constructed of a cobalt base
    material. In some embodiments, the stem component is constructed of a cobalt base
10  material. Circumferential sealing elements (e.g., piston ring seals), in some
    embodiments, are provided on the disc-shaped member on both forward & aft sides of
    the rotating stem component to provide effective sealing around (e.g., 360 degrees of)
    the circumference of the member. Circumferential sealing elements (e.g., piston ring
    seals), in some embodiments, are made from cobalt base material or similar material to
15  enable low friction movement, long life, and minimal or no galling when operating at
    high temperature. In some embodiments, stem bushings are also of a cobalt or similar
    material to provide; low friction, low wear, long life, & low galling at high operating
    temperatures.
             In some embodiments, the fluid flow control device comprises an adaptor/sleeve
20  positioned within the housing at an opening to facilitate manufacturing, assembly and
    low leakage. In some embodiments, the sleeve is constructed of the same material as the
    housing.
             In some embodiments, a fluid flow control device is provided that has a housing
    defining a fluid chamber having a first opening and a second opening. In certain
25  embodiments, each opening is configured to permit flow of a fluid into or out from the
    fluid chamber. In some embodiments, the fluid flow control device comprises a disc
    shaped member having a circumferential surface about which are positioned one or more
    circumferential sealing elements. In some embodiments, the disc-shaped member is
    rotatably positioned within the fluid chamber such that the at least two circumferential
30  sealing elements interface with an inner surface of the fluid chamber. In some
    embodiments, the disc-shaped member is rotatably positioned within the fluid chamber
    such that in a first operating position a fluid flow path is defined between the first and
    second openings, and in a second operating position the disc-shaped member fluidically

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 11
    isolates the first and second openings. In some embodiments, the fluid flow control
    device comprises a stem component having at least one end positioned outside the fluid
    chamber, and an elongated shaft extending through at least one passage through the
    housing into the fluid chamber. In some embodiments, the stem component is connected
 5  to the disc-shaped member inside the fluid chamber and is configured such that rotation
    of the stem component causes the disc-shaped member to rotate within the fluid chamber
    between at least the first and second operating positions. In some embodiments, the fluid
    flow control device functions as a low pressure damper.
             Depicted in FIG 11 A is a cross-sectional view of an exemplary fluid flow device
10  1100 comprising a housing 1105 (e.g., constructed of an investment casted metal alloy)
    that defines a fluid chamber 1102, in which the fluid chamber 1102 has a first opening
    11011, a second opening 11012, and a third opening 11013. Each opening in this device
    is configured to permit flow of a fluid into or out from the fluid chamber 1102. The fluid
    flow device 1100 also comprises a disc-shaped member 11031-2 (shown here as a top
15  view, in two positions) having a circumferential surface about which is positioned a
    removable circumferential sealing element 11041-2. In this device, the disc-shaped
    member 11031-2 is rotatably positioned within the fluid chamber 1102 such that each of
    the circumferential sealing elements interfaces with an inner surface 11071-2 of the fluid
    chamber 1102, and such that in a first operating position the disc-shaped member 11031
20  defines within the fluid chamber 1102 a fluid flow path between the first opening 11011
    and second opening 11012 that is fluidically isolated from the third opening 11013, and in
    a second operating position the disc-shaped member 11032 defines within the fluid
    chamber 1102 a fluid flow path between the second opening 11012 and third opening
    11013 that is fluidically isolated from the first opening 11011. The fluid flow device
25  1100 also comprises a stem component (not shown) that has a first end positioned
    outside the fluid chamber, an elongated shaft extending through a passage through the
    housing into the fluid chamber, and a second end connected to the disc-shaped member
    (at the x in the center of the disc shaped member 11031-2) inside the fluid chamber 1102.
    The stem component is configured such that rotation of the stem component causes the
30  disc-shaped member 1 1 0 3 1-2 to rotate within the fluid chamber 1102 between at least the
    first and second operating positions.

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 12
             FIG 11 B depicts an example of a disc-shaped member 11033 that has two
    circumferential sealing elements 110412 positioned on opposites sides of a location 1106
    where a stem component connects to the disc shaped member (11033).
             The overall efficiency of the system can be improved, in some cases, by
 5  recovering heat from the low-pressure fluid exiting the heat exchange system used to
    transfer heat to the high-pressure fluid. For example, in some cases, the low-pressure
    fluid exiting the heat exchange system can be used to generate steam to power a steam
    turbine in a Rankine cycle. In some instances, the low-pressure fluid exiting the heat
    exchange system can be used to provide heat to an absorption chiller, which can be used,
10  for example, to produce chilled water for an air conditioner and/or refrigeration system.
    The low-pressure fluid from the heat exchange system can also be used to provide heat
    for general space heating purposes (e.g., via an air to liquid heat exchanger).
             Some embodiments of the invention can be used in coordination with solar power
    tower systems (also known as central tower solar power plants or heliostat solar power
15  plants). Such systems include a plurality of heliostats arranged to redirect sunlight
    toward the top of a collector tower, sometimes called a central tower, on which one or
    more solar receivers are mounted. In some such embodiments, the gas turbine and/or the
    compressor can be mounted, along with the solar receiver, at the top of the solar tower.
    Other components, such as a thermal storage system can also be mounted at the top of, or
20  within other parts of, the tower. In some embodiments, provision is made for adjusting
    the angle of the solar receiver relative to the ground and to ground-mounted heliostats.
    The angle can be adjusted, in certain embodiments, based on tower height, heliostat field
    size and/or shape, and/or latitude.
             In some embodiments, low pressure solar receivers are provided that may be used
25  in conjunction with the power generation systems disclosed herein. The solar receivers
    function, at least in part, to convert solar radiation energy to thermal energy of a working
    fluid, e.g., a working fluid of a power generation or thermal storage system. The solar
    receivers typically comprise a low pressure fluid chamber that is designed and
    constructed, at least in part, to provide an insulated casing that acts to reduce or eliminate
30  thermal losses from the solar receiver, to contain a low pressure working fluid and/or to
    provide a support structure for a solar absorber. The low pressure solar receivers also
    typically comprise a transparent object (e.g., window) positioned adjacent to an opening
    in the receiver for receiving solar radiation. The transparent object functions, at least in

   WO 2013/142275                                                             PCT/US2013/031627
                                                   - 13
    part, to contain the low pressure working fluid, to permit solar radiation to pass into the
    solar receiver (where the radiation impinges the solar absorber) and to eliminate or
    reduce thermal losses associated with re-radiation from the solar absorber.
             Because the low pressure receiver operates at low pressure (e.g., below 1
 5  atmosphere, below 2 atmospheres) the chamber can be typically constructed using less
    material and fewer design constraints than is needed for chambers that are subjected to
    higher pressures. Moreover, the low pressure design enables the use of relatively large
    (e.g., 1 meter to 5 meters in diameter) transparent objects that enable a high solar
    collection capacity. Thus, according to some aspects, the low pressure solar receivers
10  have lower cost of production and significantly larger collection capacity than currently
    available solar receivers.
             In further embodiments, high pressure receivers are provided that may be used in
    conjunction with the power generation systems disclosed herein. The high pressure solar
    receivers function, at least in part, to convert solar radiation energy to thermal energy of
15  a working fluid, e.g., a working fluid of a power generation system or thermal storage
    system. In some embodiments, the high pressure receivers include an insulated casing
    housing a high pressure solar absorber that acquires thermal energy by absorbing
    incident solar radiation. The high pressure fluid (e.g., fluid at a pressure of above 2
    atmospheres to 50 atmospheres) entering the receiver passes through one or more fluid
20  passages within the high pressure solar absorber and acquires thermal energy therein, in
    part, through contact with the passage wall(s). The high pressure solar absorber often
    has a black surface coating to promote absorption of incident solar radiation and is
    typically constructed from a single crystal super alloy, e.g., a nickel-based single crystal
    super alloy.
25           Current high-pressure receivers typically use metals that are often limited with
    respect to maximum temperatures at which they can function. For example, certain high
    pressure receivers employ stainless steel or other alloys for the pressurized receiver
    components and these materials typically limit the receiver exit temperatures to levels
    that are insufficient to enable (at least at high efficiencies) certain downstream uses, such
30  as use within a Brayton power cycle. The high-pressure solar receivers provided herein
    employ significantly higher temperature materials, e.g., high temperature single crystal
    super alloys, for the heat-exchanger elements and therefore can be operated at
    significantly higher temperatures. In some embodiments, high-pressure absorbers are

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 14
    produced from nickel-based high-temperature super alloy (e.g., using precision
    investment casting), and enable relatively high maximum exit temperatures (e.g.,
    temperatures of up to -1150 'C) from the receiver. Thus, in some embodiments, the
    receivers may be used within a Brayton cycle system to achieve high power output &
 5  high overall electrical efficiency.
             In certain embodiments, additional heat transfer features are provided into the
    internals of the heat-exchanger elements (e.g., improved cross sectional shape) to
    facilitate heat transfer efficiency. In some embodiments, the cast single crystal tubes are
    attached to headers & manifolds of similar materials via a unique vacuum brazing
10  process known as (ADB) activated diffusion bonding or (TLP) transient liquid phase.
    This joining technique enables, in some embodiments, a joint to retain full strength &
    temperature capability. In some embodiments, the high-pressure receivers also
    incorporate a transparent object (e.g., a Quartz glass front window). In some
    embodiments, the transparent object has an anti-radiation reflection coating on the inside
15  to limit the effects of re-radiation on thermal efficiency. Moreover, in some
    embodiments, high resistance insulation is applied to the receivers to improve thermal
    efficiency.
             In some embodiments, secondary concentrators are provided. The secondary
    concentrator provides, at least in part, a mechanism for collecting concentrated solar
20  radiation from a primary concentrator, e.g., a heliostat field, or other source, and
    directing that solar radiation into the opening of a solar receiver. The secondary
    concentrator typically improves the solar collection efficiency of the solar receiver. In
    some embodiments, the second concentrator is constructed with a plurality of reflective
    panels, each reflective panel typically having a reflective surface and a predetermined
25  shape. The plurality of reflective panels are typically arranged in a configuration that
    facilitates reflection of incident solar radiation toward the receiver opening. In certain
    embodiments the secondary concentrator includes cooling pipes that function in part to
    deliver cooling fluid to and from a cooling passage within each reflective panel.
             Certain embodiments of the inventive systems and methods described herein can
30  provide certain advantage(s) over traditional concentrated solar power techniques in
    certain applications. For example, low-pressure components (e.g., solar receivers,
    storage containers, etc.) can be relatively inexpensive to manufacture and relatively safe
    to operate. In addition, low-operating pressures allow for the use of relatively large

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 15
    windows within the solar receiver, compared to pressurized systems in which large
    windows can rupture at high pressures. The Brayton cycle systems described herein
    have a higher thermal efficiency relative to systems that employ, for example, Rankine
    cycles. The ability to switch the flow of low-pressure fluid between heat exchange for
 5  power generation and low-pressure storage can allow for operation at night and other
    low-sunlight conditions. The heat integration methods described herein can also
    improve overall system performance.
             FIGS. lA-lB are schematic illustrations of a system 10 in which concentrated
    solar energy is used to generate power. The fluid streams in FIGS. lA-lB can be
10  generally divided into streams comprising relatively high-pressure fluid (illustrated as
    dotted lines in FIGS. 1A-1B), streams comprising relatively low-pressure fluid
    (illustrated as solid lines in FIGS. 1A-1B), and streams through which substantially no
    fluid is transported (illustrated as dash-dot lines in FIGS. 1A-IB, such as streams 30-33
    in FIG. 1A and streams 16-17 and 23-24 in FIG. 1B). It should be noted that these
15  conventions are used for illustration purposes only, and are not meant to indicate that the
    pressures in all relatively low-pressure streams are the same and/or that the pressures in
    all relatively high-pressure streams are the same.
             System 10 includes a solar receiver 102 constructed and arranged such that at
    least a portion of the receiver, such as face 104 in FIGS. 1A-IB, is exposed to incident
20  solar radiation 106. The energy from the incident solar radiation can be used to heat a
    fluid within the solar receiver. In some embodiments, the solar receiver can be
    constructed and arranged to operate at relatively low pressures. For example, the
    pressure of the fluid within the solar receiver (and/or within any fluidic pathway that
    includes the solar receiver) can be up to and including about 2 atmospheres, less than
25  about 1.5 atmospheres, less than about 1.25 atmospheres, less than about
    1.1 atmospheres, less than about 1 atmosphere, between about 0.9 and about
    2 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and about 1.5 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and
    about 1.25 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and about 1.1 atmospheres, or between about
    0.9 and about 1 atmosphere. In some cases, the solar receiver can be constructed and
30  arranged such that the fluid within the receiver is not substantially compressed, with the
    exception of incidental compression that might occur due to the heating and/or transport
    of the fluid, before being transported to the receiver. For example, the fluid transported
    to the solar receiver can be substantially equal to the pressure of the surrounding

   WO 2013/142275                                                              PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 16
    environment, in some cases. The reduced pressures at the receiver may allow a
    "window" of the receiver (e.g., a transparent portion of the receiver through which
    sunlight passes to heat the fluid in the receiver) to be made significantly larger than in
    other relatively high pressure receivers. For example, prior receivers may be limited to a
 5  window size of about 60cm diameter, whereas a receiver in some embodiments of the
    invention may have a size up to about 150cm or more. In some embodiments, the
    receivers have a window size of 4 meters or more. Additional details related to the
    design and operation of the solar receiver are described in more detail below.
             System 10 also includes a turbine. In the set of embodiments illustrated in
10  system 10, power is primarily generated using a Brayton cycle. The Brayton cycle
    illustrated in FIGS. lA-lB includes gas turbine 122. While a single turbine is illustrated
    in FIGS. lA-IB, it should be understood that the invention is not so limited, and that, in
    some embodiments, multiple turbines can be employed. For example, in some
    embodiments, the power generation system includes at least 2, at least 3, at least 4, at
15  least 5, or more turbines. A single gas turbine and/or the combination of multiple gas
    turbines can be capable of producing any suitable amount of power (e.g., at least about
    100 kW, at least about 500 kW, at least about 1 MW, at least about 4 MW). One of
    ordinary skill in the art would be capable of selecting an appropriate gas turbine and/or
    combination of gas turbines to use, given a desired power output requirement.
20           In order to increase system efficiency, the gas supplied to gas turbine 122 should
    be relatively hot and relatively highly-pressurized. To accomplish this, compressor 124
    can be used to compress a relatively low-pressure gas (e.g., ambient air) in stream 20 to
    produce relatively high-pressure stream 21. In some embodiments, the compressor can
    be used to produce a fluid stream (e.g., a gas stream) with a pressure above 2, at least
25  about 3, at least about 4, at least about 5, at least about 10, or at least about 15
    atmospheres.
             In the set of embodiments illustrated in FIGS. 1A- IB, independent fluidic
    pathways are maintained. For example, in FIG. 1A, fluidic pathways 11 and 12 are
    maintained. In FIG. iB, a third fluidic pathway and a fourth fluidic pathway are
30  maintained, as described in more detail below. In FIG. 1A, streams 30-33 are not used to
    transport fluid because three-way valves 13A- 13D have been switched to allow flow in a
    first configuration, which does not include flow through streams 30-33. On the other
    hand, in FIG. IB, valves 13A-13D have been switched such that streams 30-33 are used

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 17
    to transport fluid, and streams 16, 17, 23, and 24 (which were used to transport fluid in
    the configuration illustrated in FIG. 1A) are not used to transport fluid.
             Referring back to FIG. 1A, first fluidic pathway 11 (comprising streams 15-18 in
    FIG. 1A) can fluidically interconnect solar receiver 102 and thermal storage system
 5  134A such that a relatively low-pressure fluid can be transported between solar receiver
    102 and thermal storage system 134A. In this way, heat from the solar receiver can be
    used to heat the media within the thermal storage system. The pressure within the low
    pressure fluid stream can be, for example, up to and including about 2 atmospheres, less
    than about 1.5 atmospheres, less than about 1.25 atmospheres, less than about
10  1.1 atmospheres, less than about 1 atmosphere, between about 0.9 and about
    2 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and about 1.5 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and
    about 1.25 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and about 1.1 atmospheres, or between about
    0.9 and about 1 atmosphere. Second fluidic pathway 12 can fluidically interconnect
    compressor 124, thermal storage system 134B, and turbine 122. Second fluidic pathway
15  12 can be used to transport a relatively high-pressure fluid from compressor 124 through
    a thermal storage system and subsequently to turbine 122 to generate power. The
    pressure of the fluid within second fluidic pathway 12 (comprising streams 21-26 and
    118 in FIG. 1A) can be, for example, above 2, at least about 3, at least about 4, at least
    about 5, at least about 10, or at least about 15 atmospheres. By operating system 10 in
20  this way, power can be generated without directly transporting heat from fluidic pathway
    11 to fluidic pathway 12. Rather, a valving subsystem (e.g., comprising three-way
    valves 13A-13D in FIGS. 1A-IB) can be used to modify the fluidic pathways such that
    fluidic isolation is maintained between fluidic pathway 11 and fluidic pathway 12, and
    between the third and fourth pathways that are present when the valves are switched, as
25  described in more detail below.
             An exemplary method of operating system 10, as illustrated in FIGS. lA-lB is
    now described. A low-pressure fluid can be transported to solar receiver 102 via an inlet,
    such as inlet line 14 in FIGS. lA-lB. Generally, fluid is transported through the solar
    receiver when the sun is available to provide energy to heat the fluid. The relatively low
30  pressure fluid can originate from any suitable source. For example, in certain
    embodiments, the relatively low pressure fluid can originate from the ambient
    atmosphere. In certain embodiments, at least a portion of the low-pressure fluid can be
    recycled within a low-pressure fluid pathway, illustrated as fluidic pathway 11 in

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 18
    FIG. 1A. In certain embodiments, the low-pressure fluid pathway can include a fluidic
    loop, such that substantially no fluid is expelled from the pathway during operation.
             Once the relatively low-pressure fluid has been heated within the solar receiver, it
    can be transported out of the receiver, for example, via stream 15 in FIG. 1A. At least a
 5  portion of the fluid within stream 15 can be transported via valve 13D and stream 16 to a
    first thermal storage system 134A, where the heat can be used to heat a thermal storage
    medium. Thermal storage system 134A can include a single thermal storage unit, while
    in other embodiments, the thermal storage system can include a plurality of thermal
    storage units.
10           After the heat from the relatively low-pressure stream has been used to heat the
    medium within thermal storage system 134A, the relatively low-pressure fluid can be
    transported out of thermal storage system via stream 17. The relatively low-pressure
    fluid can then be redirected via valve 13C to stream 18 and subsequently to solar receiver
    102. In certain embodiments, optional blower 140 can be used to transport additional
15  low-pressure fluid in optional makeup stream 19 to solar receiver 102. Any suitable type
    of blower can be included in the system. The blower can comprise, for example, an
    electric driven induction flow fan.
             While blower 140 and makeup stream 19 have been illustrated in FIG. 1A, it
    should be understood that, in other embodiments, they may not be present, and stream 18
20  can be fed directly to solar receiver 102. In still other embodiments, blower 140 and
    makeup stream 19 can be present, and stream 18 can be directly vented (i.e., in such
    embodiments, there is substantially no recycling of low-pressure fluid back to the solar
    receiver).
             As noted above, a second fluidic pathway 12 can also be present within system
25  10, in certain embodiments. In certain embodiments, fluid can be transported through
    second fluidic pathway 12 during at least a portion of the time (which can be, for
    example, at least 5 minutes, at least 30 minutes, at least 1 hour, at least 6 hours, or at
    least 12 hours) that fluid is transported through first fluidic pathway 11.
             In second fluidic pathway 12, inlet fluid (e.g., fluid from the ambient atmosphere
30  or fluid originating from an exhaust of another unit operation) can be transported to
    compressor 124 via stream 20. Optionally, the relatively high-pressure fluid exiting
    compressor 124 via stream 21 can be pre-heated using residual heat exiting turbine 122

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 19
    and heat exchanger 112. The use of heat exchanger 112 is optional, and in other
    embodiments, the high-pressure fluid exiting compressor 124 is not pre-heated.
             In FIG. 1A, relatively high-pressure fluid (either in stream 21 directly from
    compressor 124 or in stream 22 from optional heat exchanger 112) can be transported to
 5  valve 13A, where it can be redirected to thermal storage system 134B via stream 23. In
    some embodiments, thermal storage system 134B can be pre-heated, and therefore, can
    be used to heat relatively high-pressure fluid within stream 23. Thermal storage system
    134B can be pre-heated, for example, by transporting a hot fluid (e.g., a low-pressure
    heated fluid from solar receiver 102) through thermal storage system 134B at a relatively
10  hot temperature (e.g., about 2000 'F). Once the relatively high-pressure fluid has been
    heated within thermal storage unit 134B, the fluid can be transported out of thermal
    storage unit 134B via stream 24. The fluid within stream 24 can be redirected by valve
    13B through stream(s) 25 (e.g., potentially a single stream when optional supplemental
    heater 130 is not present and potentially as few as two streams (25A and 25B) when
15  optional supplement heater 130 is present) to turbine 122. At turbine 122, the high
    pressure fluid can be used to generate power. After the high-pressure fluid has been at
    least partially decompressed within turbine 122, it can be discharged via stream 26. In
    certain embodiments, optional heat exchanger 112 can be used to transport residual heat
    from the fluid in stream 26 to compressor exhaust stream 21, as described above. In
20  certain embodiments, turbine exhaust (either from stream 26 directly or from stream 118)
    can contain residual heat, which can be recovered within heat recovery system 120 to
    increase system efficiency. Systems and methods for recovering the residual heat from
    the exhaust stream of the primary heat exchange system are described in more detail
    below.
25           In some embodiments, optional blower 140B can be included. While blower
    140B is illustrated in FIG. 1A as being downstream of optional heat exhcnager 112,
    blower 140B (when present) may be included at any position downstream of solar
    receiver 102. Including blower 140B downstream of solar receiver 102 can facilitate
    operating the gas within the solar receiver at a pressure close to atmospheric pressure
30  (e.g., at a pressure less than or equal to about 1.1 atmospheres, such as from about
    0.9 atmospheres to about 1.1 atmospheres).
             After system 10 has been operated as illustrated in FIG. 1A for a given period of
    time, the heat storage media within thermal storage system 134B can cool down to a

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 20
    point where the fluid within stream 24 is not heated to a sufficiently high temperature to
    efficiently operate turbine 122. In addition, the heat storage media within thermal
    storage system 134A can become relatively hot, inhibiting further transport of heat from
    the fluid within stream 16 to the thermal storage system. When this state is achieved, it
 5  can be desirable to shift the fluid flow pathways such that thermal storage system 134A
    is used to heat fluid being transported to turbine 122 and thermal storage system 134B is
    used to store heat absorbed by the fluid within solar receiver 102.
            As mentioned above, such fluidic switching can be achieved by actuating valves
    13A-13D, which together can form at least a part of a valving subsystem, to alter the
10  flow of fluid, as shown in FIG. 1B. In FIG. 1B, valves 13A-13D within the valving
    subsystem have been actuated to create third and fourth fluidic pathways. For example,
    in FIG. IB, a third fluidic pathway fluidically interconnects solar receiver 102 and
    thermal storage system 134B. In FIG. IB, the third fluidic pathway is generally
    indicated by solid stream lines (e.g., including streams 15, 32, 33, 18, and 14). In
15  addition, in FIG. 1B, a fourth fluidic pathway fluidically interconnects compressor 124,
    turbine 122, and thermal storage system 134A. The fourth fluidic pathway includes
    streams indicated by dotted lines (e.g., including streams 21, 22, 30, 31, 25A, 25B, 26,
    and 118). As illustrated in FIG. 1B, the third and fourth fluidic pathways are fluidically
    isolated from each other.
20          In FIG. 1B, valve 13A has been switched such that fluid within stream 22 is
    transported to thermal storage unit 134A via stream 30, rather than to thermal storage
    unit 134B. In addition, valve 13B has been switched such that the fluid within stream 25
    originates from stream 31, which is expelled from thermal storage system 134A. Thus,
    in the valving arrangement illustrated in FIG. 1B, the working fluid that is fed to the
25  turbine is transported through thermal storage system 134A, rather than through thermal
    storage system 134B.
            In addition, in FIG. IB, valve 13D has been switched such that fluid within
    stream 15 is transported to thermal storage unit 134B via stream 32, rather than to
    thermal storage unit 134A. In addition, valve 13C has been switched such that the fluid
30  within stream 18 originates from stream 33, which is expelled from thermal storage
    system 134B. Thus, in the valving arrangement illustrated in FIG. 1B, the relatively
    low-pressure fluid that is heated by solar receiver 102 is transported through thermal

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                - 21
    storage system 134B, rather than through thermal storage system 134A (as illustrated in
    FIG. 1A).
            In certain embodiments, the valving subsystem comprising valves 13A-13D can
    be operated such that the first and second fluidic pathways are eliminated and third and
 5  fourth fluidic pathways are established substantially simultaneously. For example, using
    valves 13A-13D, one can switch between a first mode of operation in which heat is
    provided from solar receiver 102 to thermal storage system 134A to a second mode of
    operation in which heat is provided from solar receiver 102 to thermal storage system
    134B essentially instantaneously (e.g., with a switching time of less than about 1 minute,
10  less than about 30 seconds, less than about 10 seconds, or less than about 5 seconds). In
    some embodiments, using valves 13A-13D, one can switch between a first mode of
    operation in which heat is provided from thermal storage system 134B to the fluid used
    to produce power in turbine 122 to a second mode of operation in which heat is provided
    from thermal stroage system 134A to the fluid used to produce power in turbine 122
15  essentially instantaneously (e.g., with a switching time of less than about 1 minute, less
    than about 30 seconds, less than about 10 seconds, or less than about 5 seconds). In
    some such embodiments,thermal storage systems 134A and 134B can be thought of as
    being "swapped out." For example, thermal storage system 134A can be switched from
    a "storage" mode (i.e., in which heat from solar receiver is transferred to the media
20  within thermal storage system 134A) to a "providing" mode (i.e., in which heat from
    thermal storage system 134A is provided to the turbine 122) at substantially the same
    time as thermal stroage system 134B is switched from a "providing" mode to a "storage"
    mode.
            In some instances, shortly after valves 13A-13D have been switched to re-route
25  the flow of fluid through system 10, the temperature of the fluid exiting the thermal
    storage system in the high-pressure fluidic pathway can be relatively low. In some such
    cases, an optional supplemental heater 130 can be employed to supply additional heat to
    the fluid in stream 25A, producing stream 25B, which can be transported to gas turbine
    122. Supplemental heater 130 can comprise, for example, an auxiliary combustor,
30  sometimes called a boost combustor, that burns fuel to supply additional heat. One of
    ordinary skill in the art would be capable of selecting an appropriate device to provide
    the required amount of supplemental heat, given the power demands and operating

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 22
    conditions of a given system. For example, heater 130 might comprise an induced flow
    combustor.
             In one set of embodiments, the relatively low temperature of the fluid within the
    high-pressure stream shortly after switching the valves can be compensated for by
 5  adjusting the power demand of the system. For example, just after switching valves
    13A-13D, the power demand of the system can be reduced (e.g., to zero or to a level of
    power than can be produced by a pressurized fluid at the temperature and flow rate
    available after switching). As the system approaches steady state, the power demand can
    be increased until, when steady state is reached, 100% of the system power can be
10  demanded.
             FIG. IC is a schematic illustration of another system 100 in which concentrated
    solar energy is used to generate power. Similar to the convention employed in
    FIGS. 1A-1B, the fluid streams in the set of embodiments illustrated in FIG. IC can be
    generally divided into streams comprising relatively high-pressure fluid (illustrated as
15  dotted lines in FIG. IC) and streams comprising relatively low-pressure fluid (illustrated
    as solid lines in FIG. IC). As noted above, these conventions are used for illustration
    purposes only, and are not meant to indicate that the pressures in all relatively low
    pressure streams are the same and/or that the pressures in all relatively high-pressure
    streams are the same.
20           System 100 includes a solar receiver 102 constructed and arranged such that at
    least a portion of the receiver, such as face 104 in FIG. IC, is exposed to incident solar
    radiation 106. The energy from the incident solar radiation can be used to heat a fluid
    within the solar receiver. In some embodiments, the solar receiver can be constructed
    and arranged to operate at relatively low pressures. For example, the pressure of the
25  fluid within the solar receiver can be up to and including about 2 atmospheres, less than
    about 1.5 atmospheres, less than about 1.25 atmospheres, less than about
    1.1 atmospheres, less than about 1 atmosphere, between about 0.9 and about
    2 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and about 1.5 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and
    about 1.25 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and about 1.1 atmospheres, or between about
30  0.9 and about 1 atmosphere. In some cases, the solar receiver can be constructed and
    arranged such that the fluid within the receiver is not substantially compressed, with the
    exception of incidental compression that might occur due to the heating and/or transport
    of the fluid, before being transported to the receiver. For example, the fluid transported

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 23
    to the solar receiver can be substantially equal to the pressure of the surrounding
    environment, in some cases. The reduced pressures at the receiver may allow a
    "window" of the receiver (e.g., a transparent portion of the receiver through which
    sunlight passes to heat the fluid in the receiver) to be made significantly larger than in
 5  other relatively high pressure receivers. For example, prior receivers may be limited to a
    window size of about 60cm diameter, whereas a receiver in some embodiments of the
    invention may have a size up to about 150cm or more. In some embodiments, the
    receivers have a window size of 4 meters or more.
             Fluid can be transported to the solar receiver via an inlet, such as inlet line 108 in
10  FIG. IC. Generally, fluid is transported through the solar receiver when the sun is
    available to provide energy to heat the fluid. In some cases, the relatively-low pressure
    fluid transported to the solar receiver can comprise the outlet stream of a turbine used to
    generate power within the system. However, the relatively low-pressure fluid can also
    originate from other sources, in addition to or in place of the exhaust stream of a turbine.
15  For example, in some cases, relatively low-pressure fluid transported to the solar receiver
    can originate from the ambient environment (e.g., atmospheric air). Additional details
    related to the design and operation of the solar receiver are described in more detail
    below.
             Once the relatively low-pressure fluid has been heated within the solar receiver, it
20  can be transported out of the receiver, for example, via stream 110 in FIG. IC. At least a
    portion of the fluid within stream 110 can be transported to heat exchange (or
    recuperator) system 112 via stream 114. Heat exchange system 112 can be used to
    transfer heat from the relatively low-pressure fluid stream (e.g., from a solar receiver
    and/or from a thermal storage system) to a relatively high-pressure fluid stream 116,
25  which can be used to drive a gas turbine, as described in more detail below.
             After the heat from the relatively low-pressure stream has been transported to the
    relatively-high pressure stream, the relatively low-pressure fluid can be transported out
    of heat exchange system 112 via stream 118. In some embodiments, stream 118 can
    contain residual heat, which can be recovered within heat recovery system 120 to
30  increase system efficiency. Systems and methods for recovering the residual heat from
    the exhaust stream of the primary heat exchange system are described in more detail
    below.

   WO 2013/142275                                                              PCT/US2013/031627
                                                     - 24
             In some embodiments, optional blower 140B can be included. While blower
    140B is illustrated in FIG. IC as being downstream of optional heat exhcnage
    system 12, blower 140B (when present) can be included at any position downstream of
    solar receiver 102. Including blower 140B downstream of solar receiver 102 can
 5  facilitate operating the gas within the solar receiver at a pressure close to atmospheric
    pressure (e.g., at a pressure less than or equal to about 1.1 atmospheres, such as from
    about 0.9 atmospheres to about 1.1 atmospheres).
             In the set of embodiments illustrated in system 100, power is primarily generated
    using a Brayton cycle. The Brayton cycle illustrated in FIG. IC includes gas turbine
10  122. While a single turbine is illustrated in FIG. IC, it should be understood that the
    invention is not so limited, and that, in some embodiments, multiple turbines can be
    employed. For example, in some embodiments, the power generation system includes at
    least 2, at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, or more turbines. A single gas turbine and/or the
    combination of multiple gas turbines can be capable of producing any suitable amount of
15  power (e.g., at least about 100 kW, at least about 500 kW, at least about 1 MW, at least
    about 4 MW). One of ordinary skill in the art would be capable of selecting an
    appropriate gas turbine and/or combination of gas turbines to use, given a desired power
    output requirement.
             In order to increase system efficiency, the gas supplied to gas turbine 122 should
20  be relatively hot and relatively highly-pressurized. To accomplish this, compressor 124
    can be used to compress a relatively low-pressure gas (e.g., ambient air) in stream 126 to
    produce relatively high-pressure stream 116. As mentioned above, relatively high
    pressure stream 116 can be heated by transferring the heat from heated, low-pressure
    stream 114 (e.g., from solar receiver 102 and/or from thermal storage system 134) to
25  stream 116 via heat exchange system 112 to produce relatively high-pressure, relatively
    high-temperature stream 128. In some embodiments, the compressor can be used to
    produce a fluid stream (e.g., a gas stream) with a pressure above 2, at least about 3, at
    least about 4, at least about 5, at least about 10, or at least about 15 atmospheres.
             As illustrated in FIG. IC, primary heat exchange system 112 includes two heat
30  exchangers (or recuperators), 1 12A and 1 12B. It should be understood that, while the
    figures illustrate the use of two heat exchangers, the invention is not limited to the use of
    heat exchange systems including two heat exchangers, and, in some embodiments, a
    single heat exchanger or more than two heat exchangers (e.g., 3, 4, 5, or more heat

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 25
    exchangers) can be used in the heat exchange system. In FIG. IC, the first heat
    exchanger 112A can be used to exchange heat at relatively high temperatures, for
    example, removing heat from high-temperature stream 114 to produce intermediate
    temperature stream 115 while transferring heat to intermediate-temperature stream 117 to
 5  produce high-temperature stream 128. The second heat exchanger 112B can be used to
    exchange heat at relatively low temperatures, for example, removing heat from
    intermediate-temperature stream 115 to produce low-temperature stream 118, while
    transferring heat to low-temperature stream 116 to produce intermediate-temperature
    stream 117. High temperature heat exchange (e.g., at temperatures between about
10  800 'C and about 1250 C) can involve the use of very expensive materials, such as
    specially engineered ceramics and/or high temperature super alloys. The use of multiple
    heat exchangers (e.g., one relatively small inexpensive heat exchanger and one relatively
    small expensive heat exchanger) instead of a single large, relatively expensive heat
    exchanger can allow one to achieve efficient heat exchange while reducing cost. While
15  heat exchange system 112 in FIG. IC is illustrated as including two heat exchangers, it
    should be understood that, in some embodiments, a single heat exchanger can be
    employed. In addition, in some cases, more than two heat exchangers can be employed
    in heat exchange system 112.
             At least one of the heat exchangers in the heat exchanger system can be
20  configured, in some embodiments, such that the heat exchanger simultaneously contains
    the first, low pressure fluid (e.g., gas) and the second, high pressure fluid (e.g., gas),
    which may, in certain embodiments involve simultaneous flow of the first and second
    fluids through the heat exchanger. For example, in some embodiments, at least one heat
    exchanger in the heat exchanger system comprises a first inlet through which gas at a
25  relatively low pressure (e.g., a pressure of less than or equal to 2 atmospheres) is
    transported into the heat exchanger and a second inlet through which gas at a relatively
    high pressure (e.g., above 2 atmospheres) is transported into the heat exchanger while the
    first gas is transported into the heat exchanger. By configuring one or more heat
    exchangers in this manner, the amount of heat transferred from the high temperature
30  fluid to the low temperature fluid can be enhanced, relative to situations in which the
    first and second fluids are transported subsequently through the heat exchanger (e.g., due
    to heat dissipation from the heat exchanger during the period between fluid flow). Heat

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                - 26
    exchangers configured in this manner can be configured to operate in countercurrent or
    cocurrent mode (with flow in the same or opposite directions)..
            In some embodiments, one or more of the heat exchangers used to transfer heat
    from the relatively low-pressure fluid to the relatively high-pressure fluid (e.g., heat
 5  exchangers 1 12A and/or 1 12B in FIG. IC) can be a rotary heat exchanger (e.g., a
    ceramic rotary heat exchanger). Suitable rotary heat exchangers (e.g., rotary
    regenerators) for use in the systems described herein include those described, for
    example, in U.S. Patent No. RE37134, issued on April 17, 2001, filed March 25, 1995,
    entitled "Heat Exchanger Containing a Component Capable of Discontinuous
10  Movement"; U.S. Publication No. 2007/0089283, published on April 26, 2007, filed
    October 17, 2006, entitled "Intermittent Sealing Device and Method"; U.S. Publication
    No. 2008/0251234, published on October 16, 2008, filed April 16, 2007, entitled"
    Regenerator Wheel Apparatus"; U.S. Publication No. 2009/0000761, published on
    January 1, 2009, filed June 29, 2007. entitled "Regenerative Heat Exchanger with
15  Energy-Storing Drive System"; U.S. Publication No. 2009/0000762, published on
    January 1, 2009, filed June 29, 2007, entitled "Brush-Seal and Matrix for Regenerative
    Heat Exchanger and Method of Adjusting Same"; and U.S. Publication No.
    2006/0054301, published on March 16, 2006, filed December 16, 2004, entitled
    "Variable Area Mass or Area and Mass Species Transfer Device and Method." Ceramic
20  rotary heat exchangers can be capable of operating at relatively high temperatures (e.g.,
    up to about 2100 'F (1200 'C), which can allow one to supply higher temperature gas to
    the gas turbine, thereby increasing system efficiency. Of course, the invention is not
    limited to the use of rotary heat exchangers, and, in some embodiments, one or more of
    the heat exchangers (e.g., the heat exchangers used to transfer heat from the relatively
25  low-pressure fluid to the relatively high-pressure fluid such as heat exchangers 112A
    and/or 1 12B in FIG. IC) can be any of a wide variety of suitable heat exchanger
    configurations, including, but not limited to, a plate heat exchanger, a tube heat
    exchanger (e.g., a shell and tube heat exchanger), etc.
            In some embodiments, at least one of the heat exchangers can be a metallic heat
30  exchanger. The first and second heat exchangers can be of different types. For example,
    in some embodiments, one of the heat exchangers within the heat exchange system can
    be a ceramic heat exchanger (e.g., a ceramic rotary heat exchanger, a ceramic plate heat
    exchanger, a ceramic tube heat exchanger, etc.) while a second of the heat exchangers

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                - 27
    can be a metallic heat exchanger. For example, gas from the solar receiver can be
    transported to a ceramic heat exchanger (where a relatively high maximum temperature
    might be observed), and subsequently transported to a metallic heat exchanger (where
    the maximum temperature might be lower than that observed in the ceramic heat
 5  exchanger).
            In some embodiments, the system can include a heat exchanger that is configured
    to be operated at a relatively high temperature. For example, in some embodiments, the
    system can include one or more heat exchangers (e.g., heat exchangers 112A and/or
    112B in FIG. IC) that can be operated above temperatures of 1500 F and in some
10  embodiments at temperatures of up to 1800 F. In some embodiments, the system can
    include one or more heat exchangers that can be operated at temperatures of up to
    2100 F or even to 2500 F. High temperature heat exchangers can comprise one or
    more materials configured to withstand high temperature operation including, for
    example, one or more ceramics (e.g., aluminum oxides, iron oxides, silicon oxides,
15  magnesium oxides, etc.). In some embodiments, the heat exchanger can comprise one or
    more metals (e.g., a super alloy such as those comprising nickel, chromium, titanium,
    tungsten, molybdenum, tantalum, columbium, and the like, including any of the super
    alloys described elsewhere herein. As specific examples, all or part of a high
    temperature heat exchanger can be formed of Alloy 230®, Alloy 214®, and/or Alloy 556®
20  from Haynes International.
            In some embodiments, the fluid within high-pressure, high-temperature stream
    128 can be transported directly to gas turbine 122, where it can be used to produce
    power. The gas turbine can be constructed and arranged to operate using incoming gas
    streams with relatively high pressures. In some embodiments, the gas stream fed to the
25  gas turbine has a pressure of above 2, at least about 3, at least about 4, at least about 5, at
    least about 10, or at least about 15 atmospheres. In some instances, for example during
    startup or during periods when the temperature of the fluid in stream 114 is relatively
    low (e.g., during periods of low sunlight and/or when storage container 112 (described
    below) is not sufficiently heated to supply high-temperature fluid), an optional
30  supplemental heater 130 can be employed to supply additional heat to the fluid in stream
    128, producing stream 128B which can be transported to gas turbine 122. Supplemental
    heater 130 can comprise, for example, an auxiliary combustor, sometimes called a boost
    combustor, that burns fuel to supply additional heat. One of ordinary skill in the art

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 28
    would be capable of selecting an appropriate device to provide the required amount of
    supplemental heat, given the power demands and operating conditions of a given system.
    For example, heater 130 might comprise an induced flow combustor.
             Once the gas in stream 128 (or 128B) has been expanded, a relatively low
 5  pressure, low-temperature turbine exhaust stream 132 can be produced. As mentioned
    above, in some embodiments, the turbine exhaust stream 132 can be fed to the solar
    receiver 102, where it can be reheated and used to supply heat to heat exchange system
    112. Routing the turbine exhaust in this way can be beneficial, as the turbine exhaust
    may contain residual heat that would otherwise be lost if the exhaust were vented
10  directly to the atmosphere.
             In some embodiments, system 100 can include optional thermal storage system
    134. In some embodiments, the thermal storage system can include a single thermal
    storage unit, while in other embodiments, the thermal storage system can include a
    plurality of thermal storage units. The thermal storage system can be used to store heat
15  (e.g., sensible heat) for use during periods of relatively low sunlight and/or during startup
    of the system. During periods of relatively high sunlight, at least a portion of the fluid
    exiting the solar receiver (e.g., via stream 110) can be transported to the thermal storage
    system 134 (e.g., via stream 136), where the heat can be retained for later use. During
    periods of low sunlight, a relatively low-temperature fluid can be transported into the
20  thermal storage system via stream 138. The heat stored within thermal storage system
    134 can be used to heat the relatively low-temperature fluid to produce high-temperature
    fluid, which can be transported to heat exchange system 112, e.g., via streams 136 and
    114. In some embodiments, the fluid supplied to stream 138 can comprise the exhaust
    stream 132 of turbine 122. For example, in some cases during periods of low sunlight,
25  little or no fluid might be supplied to solar receiver 102 via stream 108, and low-pressure
    fluid from the exhaust stream 132 of turbine 122 (and, optionally, some fluid from the
    ambient atmosphere) can be re-directed to thermal storage system 134 via conduit 138.
    In some embodiments, a controller and valves can be used to regulate the distribution of
    low-pressure fluid through solar receiver 102 and thermal storage system 134.
30           In some embodiments, optional blower 140 can be incorporated into the system.
    Any suitable type of blower can be included in the system; the blower can comprise, for
    example, an electric driven induction flow fan. The blower can be used, for example, to
    transport the gas turbine exit stream (e.g., stream 132 in FIG. IC) through the solar

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 29
    receiver during periods of relatively high sunlight. In addition, blower 140 can be used
    to provide the power to circulate hot air through the thermal storage system during
    periods of high sunlight. In some embodiments, blower 140 can be used to transport
    heated air from thermal storage system 134 to the solar receiver 102 (e.g., via pathway
 5  138) to provide pre-heated air to the solar receiver (e.g., during periods of relatively low
    sunlight). In some embodiments, blower 140 can be shut down during periods of
    relatively low sunlight when the thermal storage system can provide heat for the system.
            The blower can be arranged, in some cases, to accept ambient air or fluid from
    another source in addition to the exhaust gas from the gas turbine. In this way, the
10  blower can be used to control the overall flow rate of the fluid within the relatively low
    pressure section (i.e., from the exhaust of the gas turbine, through heat exchange system
    112, and through optional heat recovery system 120). For example, when higher flow
    rates through the low-pressure section are desirable, the blower can take in a relatively
    large amount of fluid from the ambient or another, non-turbine exhaust source. When
15  lower flow rates through the low-pressure section are desirable, the blower can take in a
    relatively small amount of (or no) fluid from the ambient or another, non-turbine exhaust
    source.
            As noted above, residual heat within stream 118 (e.g., from heat exchanger 112 in
    FIGS. lA-lB or from heat exchange system 112 in FIG. IC) can be exchanged within
20  optional heat recovery system 120. Heat recovery system 120 can include a variety of
    configurations. For example, in some cases, a Rankine bottoming cycle can be
    employed to recover residual heat. FIG. 2A includes a schematic diagram illustrating the
    recovery of energy from stream 118 using a Rankine cycle. In FIG. 2A, stream 118,
    originating from heat exchanger(s) 112, is fed to a heat exchange boiler 210. The heat
25  within stream 118 can transferred to another fluid stream containing water (e.g., stream
    211 in FIG. 2A), which can result in the production of steam or hot water. The steam
    produced during this exchange of heat can exit via stream 212. Boiler 210 can also
    produce effluent stream 213, which can include cooled fluid from stream 118. Stream
    212 can be fed to steam turbine 214, where it can be used to produce energy and exhaust
30  stream 216. Exhaust stream 216 can be condensed to water in optional condenser 218, to
    produce heat (which can be used in other areas of the process) a condensed stream. As
    shown in FIG. 2A, the condensed stream from the condenser is illustrated as being used
    as heat exchange boiler inlet stream 211, which can be re-heated to generate steam.

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                   - 30
    Optionally, steam turbine exhaust stream 216 can be used as heat exchange boiler inlet
    stream 211.
             In some instances, an absorption chiller can be used to recover residual heat from
    stream 118. FIG. 2B includes a schematic illustration of one such set of embodiments.
 5  In FIG. 2B, stream 118 is transported to absorption chiller 220, where the heat from
    stream 118 is used to provide energy to the absorption chiller necessary to cool a
    relatively warm fluid in stream 222 (e.g., ambient air) to produce a cooled fluid stream
    224. In addition to producing cooled fluid stream 224, the absorption chiller can produce
    exhaust stream 226, which contains fluid from stream 118 that has been cooled. Cooled
10  stream 224 can be used, for example, as part of an air conditioning system. As another
    example, cooled stream 224 might be used to cool system components (e.g., the gas
    turbine), for example, during operation in very hot climates (e.g., temperatures of 100 F
    or above). One of ordinary skill in the art would be capable of selecting a suitable
    absorption chiller based upon the required cooling load, temperature and flow rate of
15  incoming fluid stream 118, and other design parameters.
             In still other cases, the residual heat within stream 118 can be used to provide
    heat (e.g., within other areas of the process and/or to areas outside the power generation
    process). FIG. 2C includes an exemplary schematic illustration of one such set of
    embodiments. In FIG. 2C, stream 118 is transported to heat exchanger 230, where it is
20  used to heat relatively cool fluid in stream 232 (e.g., ambient air) to produce a heated
    fluid stream 234. In addition, exhaust stream 236, which contains fluid from stream 118
    that has been cooled, can be produced. Heated stream 234 can be used, for example, to
    produce hot water or other liquids for use in a running water system, a space heating
    system (e.g., to provide heat one or more rooms within a building or other suitable
25  structure), or any other suitable system in which heated fluids are required. One or
    ordinary skill in the art would be capable of selecting a suitable heat exchanger based
    upon the required heating load, temperature and flow rate of incoming fluid stream 118,
    and other design parameters.
             The inclusion of heat recovery system 120 can lead to relatively large increases in
30  overall system efficiency. Generally, overall system efficiency is calculated as the power
    produced by the system (in the form of electricity and/or in the form of a heated or
    cooled stream that can be used in another system, such as streams 224 and 234 in
    FIGS. 2B and 2C) divided by the power of the solar energy incident on the solar receiver

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 31
    and multiplied by 100%. In embodiments employing the Rankine bottoming cycle
    illustrated in FIG. 2A, the overall efficiency can approach about 50% (e.g., between
    about 40% and about 50%). For systems that include an absorption chiller such as the
    system illustrated in FIG. 2B, overall system efficiency can approach about 60% (e.g.,
 5  between about 40% and about 60%). The overall efficiency of power generation systems
    that employ a heat exchanger to provide heat to other parts of the power generation
    system and/or external systems can approach about 80% (e.g., between about 40% and
    about 80%).
             As noted above, the thermal storage system 134 in system 100 can include one or
10  more thermal storage units. The thermal storage unit(s) can enable a practical and cost
    effective method to achieve thermal storage of CSP energy for use in generating
    electricity during hours with no or low sunlight. In some embodiments, a thermal
    storage unit can comprise a tank in which solid media with passages through which the
    fluid flows is located to store the thermal energy at relatively high temperatures (e.g., at
15  least about 1800 'F, at least about 2000 'F, or higher).
             Exemplary illustrations of suitable thermal storage units are shown in
    FIGS. 3A-3C. FIG. 3A includes a cross-sectional view of a storage unit 310, including
    lines 312 and 314, each of which can function as an inlet or an outlet. Unit 310 also
    includes plate 316A that includes a plurality of passageways. Plate 316A is designed in
20  this manner so fluid can be transported through the plate while the plate supports thermal
    storage media within volume 318, preventing the thermal storage media from entering
    line 314. In addition, unit 310 can include plate 316B, which can also comprise a
    plurality of passageways. By designing plate 316B in this manner, fluid can be
    transported from volume 318 and through plate 316B without entraining thermal storage
25  media as the fluid exits line 312. By avoiding the transport of thermal storage media out
    of the thermal storage unit 310, one can reduce damage (e.g., erosion damage) to the
    turbine, blower, solar receiver, or other system components that may occur when the
    media contact these components.
             Thermal storage unit 310 can be fabricated using a variety of materials including,
30  for example, metals (e.g., stainless steel). In some embodiments, thermal storage unit
    310 is configured such that it is a certified pressure vessel (e.g., ASME-certified,
    EN13445 certified, or a pressure vessel meeting a similar set of certification standards).
    In addition, plates 316A and 316B can be fabricated from any suitable material,

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 32
    including metals (e.g., stainless steel, refractory metals such as tungsten, and the like),
    ceramics, and/or combinations of these materials.
            Thermal storage unit 310 can be fabricated in sections, such that two or more of
    the sections may be bolted together to assemble a storage unit having a desired
 5  volumetric capacity. Fabrication of the storage unit in sections facilitates factory
    construction, transport and onsite assembly of storage units having relatively large
    volumetric capacity. In some configurations sections of the storage unit may be in the
    range of 8 feet to 16 feet in length and 8 feet to 16 feet in diameter. In some
    configurations sections of the storage unit may be approximately 12 feet in length and 10
10  feet to 12 feet in diameter.
            The passageways within plate 316A and/or 316B can be configured to impart a
    desired flow profile within volume 318. For example, the sizes (e.g., diameters, lengths),
    cross-sectional shapes, and/or flow angles of the pathways within plates 316A and/or
    316B can be selected to achieve a desired flow profile. The openings of the fluid
15  passageways one or both sides of plates 316A and/or 316B can be arranged in any
    suitable pattern including, for example, a honeycomb pattern.
            As noted above, lines 312 and 314 can each function as an inlet or an outlet. For
    example, in some instances in which the thermal storage media within unit 310 is being
    heated by an incoming fluid (e.g., at a temperature of between 1800'F and 1900'F), line
20  312 can function as an inlet and line 314 can function as an outlet. In such cases, plate
    316A can prevent thermal storage media from being entrained in the heating fluid and
    being transported through outlet 314. In some instances in which the thermal storage
    media within unit 310 is being used to heat an incoming fluid (e.g., at an incoming
    temperature of between 100 0 F and 1200'F), line 314 can function as an inlet and line
25  312 can function as an outlet. In such cases, plate 316B can prevent thermal storage
    media from being entrained in the heated fluid and being transported through outlet 312.
    The direction of fluid flow within unit 310 can be freely changed, depending on the
    mode of operation of the power generation system.
            In some cases, a first portion of the gas heated by the solar receiver can be
30  transported to the thermal storage system and a second portion of the gas heated by the
    solar receiver can be transported to the heat exchange system (i.e., the airflow from the
    solar receiver can be switched between the thermal storage system and the heat exchange
    system used to transfer heat from the low-pressure fluid to the high-pressure Brayton

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 33
    cycle fluid). In some cases, substantially all of the gas from the solar receiver is
    transported to the thermal storage system over a first period of time, and substantially all
    of the gas from the solar receiver is transported to the heat exchange system over a
    second period of time that does not overlap with the first period of time. For example,
 5  substantially all of the exhaust stream from the solar receiver might be transported to the
    thermal storage system over a first period of time, and at a later time, the flow from the
    solar receiver can be switched such that substantially all of the solar receiver exhaust is
    transported to the heat exchange system. In other cases, a first portion of the gas from
    the solar receiver is transported to the thermal storage system over a first period of time,
10  and a second portion of the gas from the solar receiver is transported to the heat
    exchange system over the first period of time. Stated another way, the exhaust stream
    from the solar receiver can be split such that, simultaneously, a first portion of the solar
    receiver exhaust is transported to the thermal storage system and a second portion of the
    solar receiver exhaust is transported to the heat exchange system.
15          In some embodiments, the thermal storage system (including any thermal storage
    unit(s) within the thermal storage system) can be constructed and arranged to operate at
    relatively low pressures during at least a portion of the period of time over which system
    100 is operated. For example, the pressure of the fluid within the thermal storage system
    (including any thermal storage unit(s) within the thermal storage system), for example,
20  during heating of the thermal storage system and/or during heating of a fluid being
    transported through the thermal storage system, can be up to and including
    2 atmospheres, less than about 1.5 atmospheres, less than about 1.25 atmospheres, less
    than about 1.1 atmospheres, less than about 1 atmosphere, between about 0.9 and about
    2 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and about 1.5 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and
25  about 1.25 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and about 1.1 atmospheres, or between about
    0.9 and about 1 atmosphere. In some cases, the thermal storage system can be
    constructed and arranged such that the fluid within the thermal storage system is not
    substantially compressed, with the exception of incidental compression that might occur
    due to the heating and/or transport of the fluid, before being transported to the thermal
30  storage system. For example, the fluid within the thermal storage system can be
    substantially equal to the pressure of the surrounding environment, in some cases. In
    some embodiments, the thermal storage system 134 is operated at relatively low
    pressures when being heated by a low-pressure fluid (e.g., low pressure fluid in stream

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                - 34
    136 from solar receiver 102). In some embodiments, thermal storage system 134 is
    operated at relatively low pressures when being used to pre-heat a fluid that is to be
    transported to turbine 122.
            It should be understood that the invention is not limited to the use of low-pressure
 5  fluid within thermal storage system 134, and that, in some embodiments, high-pressure
    fluid can be transported through thermal storage system 134 during operation of system
    100. For example, in some embodiments, a relatively high-pressure fluid (e.g., at a
    pressure of above 2 atmospheres, at least about 2.1 atmospheres, at least about
    2.25 atmospheres, at least about 2.5 atmospheres, at least about 3 atmospheres, at least
10  about 4 atmospheres, at least about 5 atmospheres, at least about 10 atmospheres, or at
    least about 15 atmospheres, and, in some embodiments, up to 50 atmospheres) can be
    transported through and heated by thermal storage system 134 (e.g., after thermal storage
    system 134 has been heated by a fluid, such as a low-pressure fluid from solar receiver
    102). After the high-pressure fluid is heated by thermal storage system 134, it can be
15  transported to turbine 122 to generate power, in some embodiments.
            In many previous thermal storage systems, high pressures are employed, which
    can increase the expense required to construct the systems. Other previous thermal
    storage systems have used a variety of salts or other materials that undergo a phase
    change, many of which materials were also very expensive. By being unpressurized and
20  fully factory produced along with low-cost fill (thermal storage) media this approach
    dramatically reduces CSP thermal storage system cost. Using the CSP thermal storage
    tanks in modular form as part of the CSP tower could further improve the capital costs
    associated with the system.
            The thermal storage units within the thermal storage system can be modular, in
25  some cases, which can allow one to easily scale a system in order to allow a CSP system
    to operate to produce a given power for a given time without low or no sunlight. For
    example, FIG. 3B includes a system in which a single unit is used to store thermal
    energy. In FIG. 3C, two thermal storage units are connected (e.g., by rotating caps 320
    such that lines 312 face each other) to double the thermal storage capacity. Of course,
30  the amount of energy delivered by the thermal storage unit(s) can be altered in other
    ways by, for example, only partially filling one or more units with media and/or limiting
    the degree to which one or more sections of a single unit are heated (which might include
    establishing a thermal gradient along the longitudinal axis of one or more storage units).

   WO 2013/142275                                                             PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 35
             In some embodiments, the tanks can be sized to achieve relatively easy transport.
    For example, each thermal storage unit could be between about 2 and about 12 feet in
    diameter, and up to 40 feet long to enable easy shipment. The thermal storage units can
    be filled on site or prior to delivery to the site, which can allow for cost effective
 5  production and reduce on site construction cost and/or schedule delays.
             A variety of fill media can be used in the thermal storage unit(s) in the thermal
    storage system. The fill media can comprise a variety of materials with high heat
    capacities that are able to retain their structures at high temperatures, such as ceramics
    and other refractory materials. Exemplary materials include, but are not limited to,
10  materials comprising aluminum oxides, iron oxides, silicon oxides, and/or magnesium
    oxides such as fire brick, mullite, magnetite, PYRO GRAN 35/38, PYRO KOR 60NR,
    PYRO KOR 95NK, and/or PYROFER 70. In some embodiments, the thermal storage
    media has a heat capacity of at least about 600 J/kg K, at least about 800 J/kg K, or at
    least about 900 J/kg K. It can be advantageous, in some embodiments, to use materials
15  with relatively low densities (e.g., less than about 5 g/cm 3 , less than about 3 g/cm 3 , or
    less than about 2 g/cm 3).
             The thermal storage media within the thermal storage unit(s) can be of any
    suitable form factor and size. For example, pellets (e.g., substantially spherical pellets or
    pellets with any of the shapes described below) with maximum cross-sectional diameters
20  in mm, cm, or larger length scales can be used as the thermal storage media, in some
    instance. In some embodiments, the thermal storage media can comprise pellets, and at
    least about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, or at least
    about 99% of the pellets have maximum cross-sectional diameters of less than about
    100 cm, less than about 10 cm, less than about 1 cm, between about 1 mm and about
25  100 cm, or between about 1 cm and about 100 cm. Suitable pellet shapes include, but
    are not limited to, shapes that are substantially rectangular prisms (e.g., bricks,
    substantially cubic shapes), substantially triangular prisms, substantially spheres, bow
    ties, honeycombs, saddles, and the like. In one set of embodiments, the thermal storage
    media can comprise elongated tubes through which heated fluid is transported.
30           In certain embodiments, the thermal storage media within the thermal storage
    unit(s) can be selected such that a step-function change in temperature is not observed.
    That is to say, in such systems, the temperature profile of thermal storage media, when
    plotted linearly as a function of the distance along which fluid is transported through the

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 36
    thermal storage unit(s) would exhibit a non-step-function behavior. In certain such
    embodiments, one end of the thermal storage unit would be at a relatively hot
    temperature while the other end of the thermal storage unit would be at a relatively cool
    temperature, with a non-step function change in temperature (e.g., a linear change in
 5  temperature, a concave up change in temperature, or a concave down change in
    temperature) in between. Such profiles can be achieved, for example, by using thermal
    storage media with relatively low thermal conductivities, such as ceramics.
             In some embodiments, the interior of the thermal storage unit(s) can be lined with
    a thermally insulating material and/or the outside of the thermal storage unit(s) can be
10  covered with a thermally insulating material to reduce heat loss to the atmosphere. For
    example, when the tank is manufactured out of metal, the tank can be lined with and/or
    covered with a refractory material (e.g., ceramics such as alumina, silica, magnesia, and
    the like). In some embodiments, the refractory material can be cast in place and/or can
    comprise a multi-layered structure in which the density and/or heat capacity can vary
15  from layer to layer. In some embodiments, the thickness of the thermally insulating
    lining within the unit(s) can be between about 5 inches and about 15 inches (e.g., for a
    tank with a diameter up to 12 feet and a length of up to 40 feet). In some embodiments,
    the thickness of the thermally insulating material on the exterior of the thermal storage
    unit(s) can be up to 1 foot or up to 2 feet in thickness.
20           As noted above, the components of the CSP system can be positioned in various
    parts of a solar power tower. FIG. 4A includes a schematic illustration of one set of
    power tower embodiments. The system 400 in FIG. 4A includes solar receiver 410
    fluidically connected to turbine package 412, which can include a gas turbine and a
    compressor. In this embodiment, the turbine package 412 is made as a single modular
25  unit that can be completely assembled at a factory, shipped to an operation site (e.g., by
    truck or railroad car), and placed (e.g., by crane) onto a tower structure 414. The turbine
    package 412 may include not only a compressor and gas turbine, but also a heat
    exchanger, or recuperator, unit, an electric generator and related power electronics, a
    supplemental heater and/or control valves and other components to control the operation
30  of one or more portions of the power generation system. The turbine package 412 may
    be made and shipped as a single unit with the receiver 410 (which in this embodiment
    also includes the secondary collector), or the package 412 and receiver 410 may be made
    as separate modular units and assembled together on the tower structure 414 at the

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                   - 37
    operation site. By making turbine and receiver sections in a modular arrangement,
    manufacturing of the modular units may be made more efficient. That is, the turbine
    package 412 and receiver 410 may be made in a factory setting, with skilled technicians
    building and testing the package 412 and receiver 410 before being sent to an operation
 5  site. The package 412 and receiver 410 may be tested in real conditions, e.g., on a tower
    or other structure that received sunlight from a heliostat field, or in more artificial
    conditions. For example, the turbine package 412 may be tested by supplying heated air
    or other fluid to the package 412 that is heated by fuel combustor or other suitable
    arrangement. Similarly, the receiver 410 may be tested by illuminating the receiver 410
10  with artificial light or other radiation that does not originate from a heliostat field. In this
    way, the package 412 and receiver 410 may be tested individually, or as a functioning
    whole, under different conditions (such as low light levels, high light levels, high and/or
    low ambient temperature conditions, high and low power output conditions, etc.) As a
    result, steps may be taken to help ensure that fully functioning turbine package 412
15  and/or receiver 410 units are shipped to an operation site.
             In some embodiments, one or more thermal storage units can be incorporated as
    part of a tower structure 414 which can, for example, allow for relatively easy assembly
    and further reduce the overall cost of the CSP system. For example, thermal storage
    media can be stored within tower structure 414, which can serve as the thermal storage
20  unit. For example, in the set of embodiments illustrated in FIG. 4A, tower structure 414
    can be filled with thermal storage medium and provide thermal storage capability for
    system 400. In another embodiment, the tower structure 414 may be arranged to house
    one or more thermal storage tanks like that shown in FIGs. 3A-3C. If two or more tanks
    are provided, the tanks may be stacked within the tower structure 414. Arranging the
25  tanks within the tower structure 414 may provide different features such as reducing the
    overall footprint of the power generating unit, providing additional thermal cover for the
    tanks, and/or enhancing the strength of the tower structure 414. For example, the tanks
    may be incorporated into the tower structure 414 so as to not only provide thermal
    storage, but also provide structural support for the tower structure 414. Like the receiver
30  410 and turbine package 412, the energy storage tanks and/or tower structure 414 may be
    made in one or more modular units that are shipped to an operation site and assembled
    together.

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 38
             FIG. 4B illustrates another set of embodiments that includes thermal storage unit
    416, independent of tower structure 414. That is, in this embodiment, a thermal storage
    tank 416 is mounted to the top of the tower structure 414 with the receiver 410 and
    turbine package 412. The receiver 401, turbine package 412 and tank 416 may be made
 5  as a single modular unit that may be manufactured at a factory and shipped (e.g., by
    truck or railcar) to an operation site and placed on top of a tower structure 414, or the
    receiver 410, turbine package 412 and/or tank 416 may be made as separate modular
    units. A modular structure may significantly reduce assembly costs at the operation site,
    e.g., because the receiver 410, turbine package 412 and tank 416 may be placed by crane
10  on the tower structure 414 and be ready for operation with only relatively minimal
    assembly at the operation site. For example, if made as a single unit, placement of the
    receiver 410, turbine package 412 and tank 416 may require only electrical power
    hookups and connection to the tower 414 for the system to be ready for energy
    generation.
15           One advantage provided by aspects of the invention relates to the decreased
    overall weight of the power generation system, e.g., including the receiver 410 and
    turbine package 412 of FIG. 4A. In one set of embodiments, the total weight of the
    receiver 410 and turbine package 412 may be approximately 50 tons per MWe power
    output. For example, a 1MWe system may have the receiver 410 and turbine package
20  412 weigh approximately 100,000 pounds (or 50 tons). Of course, the weight of the
    components may vary depending on a variety of factors, and thus the weight per MWe
    power output may vary from about 25 to 100 tons/MWe or more. (It is envisioned that
    tower-based solar power generation system according to aspects of the invention may be
    constructed for power output ranging from about lOOkWe to 5MWe. Of course, smaller
25  and larger output systems are possible, but may not be economically feasible (e.g., small
    output systems may not be economically justify installation costs) or technically feasible
    (e.g., large output systems may have receiver and turbine package weights that are too
    large for sensible tower deployment.)
             Although the embodiments shown in FIGs. 4A and 4B show the receiver 410,
30  turbine package 412 and/or tank 316 arranged in a modular format, the various
    components of the power generation system need not be arranged in modular units.
    Instead, in some embodiments, the individual pieces of the system (such as a gas turbine,
    compressor, recuperators, receiver, collector, etc.) may be assembled in place on the

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 39
    tower. Thus, aspects of the invention are not necessarily limited to modular
    arrangements of components that are attached to a tower structure 414.
              As mentioned above, in some embodiments, the power generation system can
    include a solar receiver operating at a relatively high pressure (e.g., above 2 atmospheres,
 5  at least about 3 atmospheres, at least about 4 atmospheres, at least about 5, at least about
    10, or at least about 15 atmospheres) in place of or in addition to the solar receiver
    operating at a relatively low pressure.
              FIG. 5 includes an exemplary schematic diagram of a concentrated solar power
    generation system 500 including a high pressure solar receiver. In FIG. 5, fluid stream
10  526 (e.g., comprising ambient air) is fed to compressor 524, where it is compressed to a
    relatively high pressure. High pressure stream 516 from compressor 524 is then fed to
    heat exchange system 512, which can comprise one or more heat exchangers. In the set
    of embodiments illustrated in FIG. 5, two heat exchangers (512A and 512B) are shown,
    although in other embodiments a single heat exchanger or more than two heat
15  exchangers may be used. For example, in some cases, a single rotary heat exchanger
    (e.g., a ceramic rotary heat exchanger, a metal rotary heat exchanger) can be used in heat
    exchange system 512. In other cases, two or more rotary heat exchangers (e.g., ceramic
    rotary heat exchangers, metallic rotary heat exchangers, or combinations of the two) can
    be used in heat exchange system 512.
20            In the set of embodiments illustrated in FIG. 5, heated high pressure stream 528
    from heat exchange system 512 is transported to high pressure solar receiver 502, where
    it is further heated via incident solar radiation 506 passed through surface 504. High
    pressure, high temperature stream 510 is then transported to turbine 522 (e.g., a gas
    turbine, which can be part of a Brayton cycle), where the stream is used to produce
25  power. Exhaust stream 514 from gas turbine 522 can be transported to heat exchange
    system 512, where the residual heat in the stream can be used to pre-heat the compressor
    exhaust stream 516. Exhaust stream 518 can, in some cases, be used to provide energy
    to a heat recovery system 520, which can comprise any of the components described
    above in relation to heat recovery system 120. The high pressure receiver system
30  outlined in FIG. 5 can be useful, for example, in embodiments in which a single crystal
    nickel receiver is employed.
              FIG. 6 includes an exemplary schematic illustration of a power generation system
    600 in which two solar receivers are employed. In the set of embodiments illustrated in

   WO 2013/142275                                                         PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 40
    FIG. 6, fluid stream 626 (e.g., comprising ambient air) is fed to compressor 624, where it
    is compressed to a relatively high pressure. High pressure stream 616 from compressor
    624 is then fed to heat exchange system 612, which can comprise one or more heat
    exchangers. In the set of embodiments illustrated in FIG. 6, two heat exchangers (612A
 5  and 612B) are shown, although in other embodiments a single heat exchanger or more
    than two heat exchangers may be used. For example, in some cases, a single heat
    exchanger (e.g., a rotary heat exchanger such as a ceramic rotary heat exchanger or a
    metal heat exchanger, or any other type of high temperature heat exchanger) can be used
    in heat exchange system 612. In other cases, two or more heat exchangers (e.g., two or
10  more rotary heat exchangers such as ceramic rotary heat exchangers or metallic heat
    exchangers, or combinations of the two, or two or more of another type of high
    temperature heat exchanger) can be used in heat exchange system 612.
            In FIG. 6, a portion of heated high pressure stream 628 from heat exchange
    system 612 is transported to high pressure solar receiver 602, where it is further heated
15  via incident solar radiation 606 passed through surface 604. In some cases, a portion of
    high pressure stream 628 can be transported to combustor 630, where it can be further
    heated. A portion of high pressure, high temperature stream 610 exiting the high
    pressure solar receiver 602 can be transported to combustor 630, where it can be further
    heated, if necessary.
20          In some cases, at least a portion of high pressure, high temperature stream 610
    exiting the high pressure solar receiver 602 can be transported to a thermal storage
    system 634. Stream 610 can be used to deliver energy to the thermal storage system, in
    some embodiments. In some cases, thermal storage system 634 can absorb heat from a
    low pressure stream exiting low pressure solar receiver 603, described in more detail
25  below. In some such cases, a high pressure, high temperature stream 635 exiting thermal
    storage system 634 can be transported to combustor 630, where it can be optionally
    further heated. The fluid streams transported to combustor 630 can be subsequently
    transported to gas turbine 622 via stream 637, where they can be used to generate power.
            The turbine exhaust stream 614 can be transported to heat exchange system 612,
30  where the residual heat can be used to pre-heat compressor exhaust stream 616 before it
    is transported to high pressure solar receiver 602. In some cases, a portion (or all) of the
    exhaust stream 618 from heat exchange system 612 can be transported to a second, low
    pressure solar receiver 603 (in some cases, via optional blower 640). The fluid within

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 41
    the low pressure solar receiver 603 can be heated via incident solar radiation 607
    transmitted through surface 605. The low pressure receiver exhaust stream 650 can be
    transported to thermal storage system 634, where it can be used to supply heat (which
    can be used, for example, to heat all or part of high pressure solar receiver exhaust
 5  stream 610). The low pressure stream 652 exiting thermal storage system 634 can be
    used, in some embodiments, within thermal recovery region 621, which can include any
    of the components described above in relation to heat recovery system 120.
            In some cases, the thermal storage system can include a first portion constructed
    and arranged to be operated at a relatively high pressure (e.g., at least about 3, at least
10  about 4, at least about 5, at least about 10, or at least about 15 atmospheres), and a
    second portion constructed and arranged to be operated at a relatively low pressure (e.g.,
    equal to or less than about 2, less than about 1.5, less than about 1.25, or less than about
    1.1 atmospheres, less than about 1 atmosphere, between about 0.9 and about
    2 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and about 1.5 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and
15  about 1.25 atmospheres, between about 0.9 and about 1.1 atmospheres, or between about
    0.9 and about 1 atmosphere). For example, in the set of embodiments illustrated in
    FIG. 6, thermal storage system 634 includes a first portion constructed and arranged to
    handle the flow of low-pressure stream 650 and a second portion constructed and
    arranged to handle the flow of high-pressure stream 610.
20          In some embodiments, a portion of exhaust stream 618 from heat exchange
    system 612 can be transported to thermal recovery region 620, which can include any of
    the components described above in relation to heat recovery system 120.
            Many of the components illustrated in the figures are fluidically connected. As a
    specific example, receiver 102 and heat exchange system 112 in FIG. IC are illustrated
25  as being directly fluidically connected. In addition, in FIG. IC, heat recovery system
    120 and gas turbine 122 are illustrated as being fluidically connect (although not directly
    fluidically connected). Two components are said to be "fluidically connected" when
    they are constructed and arranged such that a fluid can flow between them. In some
    cases, two components can be "directly fluidically connected," which is used to refer to a
30  situation in which the two components are constructed and arranged such that a fluid can
    flow between without being transferred through a unit operation constructed and
    arranged to substantially change the temperature and/or pressure of the fluid. One of
    ordinary skill in the art would be able to differentiate between unit operations that are

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 42
    constructed and arranged to substantially change the temperature and/or pressure of a
    fluid (e.g., a compressor, a condenser, a heat exchanger, etc.) and components are not so
    constructed and arranged (e.g., a transport pipe through which incidental heat transfer
    and/or pressure accumulation may occur). It should be understood that, while two
 5  components might be illustrated as being directly fluidically connected in the figures,
    other embodiments can include arrangements in which they are fluidically connected but
    not directly fluidically connected.
              In some embodiments, solar receivers, such as those shown in FIGS. 7A-D, are
    designed and constructed to be used in conjunction with the power generation systems
10  provided herein. The exemplary solar receivers in FIGS. 7A and 7B comprise a low
    pressure fluid chamber 700 that is designed and constructed to provide an insulated
    casing 700, which acts to reduce or eliminate thermal losses from the solar receiver and
    to contain a low pressure working fluid. The low pressure solar receivers comprises a
    transparent object 703 positioned at the front of the low pressure fluid chamber 700
15  adjacent to the opening 708 for receiving solar radiation.
              In the embodiments depicted in FIGS. 7A and 7B, a fluid path is defined within
    the low pressure fluid chamber 700, such that a relatively low temperature working fluid
    (e.g., a fluid having a temperature in a range of 300 'C to 800 C) entering the fluid inlet
    702 at the rear of the receiver, passes through the receiver around the periphery of a liner
20  into a front region of the fluid chamber 700 and across the transparent object 703 (e.g., a
    window). By passing across the transparent object 703, the relatively low temperature
    working fluid acts, in part, to cool the transparent object 703, which is heating, in part,
    by incident solar radiation and thermal radiation from a solar absorber 704. The
    relatively low temperature working fluid passes through the solar absorber 704 wherein
25  it is further heated by the solar absorber 704. Within the solar absorber the relatively low
    temperature working fluid is converted to a relatively high temperature working fluid
    (e.g., a fluid having a temperature in a range of above 800 'C to 1200 C). The relatively
    high temperature working fluid exits the low pressure fluid chamber 700 through a fluid
    outlet 701. After leaving the solar receiver, in some embodiments, the relatively high
30  temperature working fluid is directed to a gas turbine system, a thermal storage system
    (e.g., a sensible heat storage system), or other thermal energy system, as is exemplified
    elsewhere herein.

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 43
             Typically, a solar absorber, such as that depicted in FIG. 7A, is constructed of a
    material that can withstand relatively high temperatures (e.g., temperatures in excess of
    1000 C) and that has sufficient thermal properties (e.g., thermal conductivity,
    emissivity) to absorb thermal energy from incident solar radiation and transfer thermal
 5  energy to a working fluid passing within the solar receiver. In some cases, the solar
    absorber is constructed of a material such as a metal, (e.g., high-temperature alloy, heat
    resistant cast alloy), a refractory material (e.g., a ceramic) or a carbon-based material.
    The solar absorber is often constructed of a ceramic material such as a glass ceramic,
    silicon carbide, silicon nitride, alumina, or silicon oxide.
10           The solar absorber 704 of a low pressure receiver, such as that depicted in
    FIG. 7A, typically has a high surface area to facilitate the transfer of thermal energy to a
    working fluid passing within the solar receiver. The solar absorber 704, in some
    embodiments, is designed and constructed to have a network (e.g., a honeycomb
    network, a shell and tube network, a foam network, etc.) of fluid passages through which
15  the working fluid passes. The solar absorber 704 is immobilized within the low pressure
    chamber such that a relatively low temperature working fluid traveling within the fluid
    flow path of the low pressure chamber 700 is directed to enter the solar absorber 704,
    passing through the network of fluid passages of the solar absorber 704, wherein the
    working fluid acquires heat from the solar absorber 704.
20           While the solar absorber 704 depicted in FIGS. 7A and 7B has an angular shape,
    the solar absorbers are not so limited and other suitable shapes may be constructed and
    used with the solar receivers disclosed herein. For example, a solar absorber may have a
    planar shape, an elliptical shape, a parabolic shape, a disc shape, a polyhedron shape or
    other suitable shape.
25           The transparent object 703 of the solar receiver depicted in FIG. 7A is positioned
    at the front of the low pressure fluid chamber 700 adjacent to the opening 708 for
    receiving solar radiation. The outer rim of the transparent object 703 is fitted within a
    recess 705 of the low pressure fluid chamber 700. The transparent object 703 and the
    low pressure chamber 700 are typically constructed of materials having different
30  coefficients of thermal expansion. For example, the transparent object 703 is typically
    constructed of a glass material (e.g., silica, quartz, etc.), whereas the low pressure
    chamber 700 is typically constructed of a metal (e.g., stainless steel, aluminum). When
    the transparent object 703 and low pressure chamber 700 are subjected to thermal

   WO 2013/142275                                                              PCT/US2013/031627
                                                   - 44
    fluctuations, such as those which occur between activity and lack of activity of the solar
    receiver, there is often differential thermal expansion and contraction of the two
    components. Thus, the connection between the transparent object 703 and the low
    pressure fluid chamber 700 must typically be designed and constructed to accommodate
 5  differential movement between the two components.
            In some embodiments, a flexible seal is provided between an interface on the low
    pressure fluid chamber 700 and the transparent object 703. The interface may be within
    a recess 705 within which the transparent object 703 is positioned and/or secured. The
    recess 705 may have an internal diameter that exceeds the outside diameter of the
10  transparent object 703, thereby allowing expansion of the transparent object 703 within
    the recess 705. The seal is often subjected to relatively high temperatures (e.g.,
    temperatures in excess of 500 'C), and thus, is typically produced from a material that
    can withstand relatively high temperatures. The seal may be produced, in some
    embodiments, from a metal, a carbon-based material, or a silicone-based material. In
15  some embodiments, the seal is produced from a room-temperature vulcanizing (RTV)
    silicone elastomer. In some embodiments, the seal is a metallic gasket. Other
    appropriate seal materials will be apparent to the skilled artisan.
            The low pressure fluid chamber 700, in certain embodiments, is designed and
    constructed to have a maximum allowable working pressure of up to and including 2
20  atmospheres. The low pressure fluid chamber 700, in certain embodiments, is designed
    and constructed to have a maximum allowable working pressure of 1 atmosphere, 1.1
    atmospheres, 1.2 atmospheres, 1.3 atmospheres, 1.4 atmospheres, 1.5 atmospheres, or 2
    atmospheres. As used herein, the term "maximum allowable working pressure" refers to
    the maximum pressure a pressure vessel can maintain, e.g., the maximum pressure that
25  the weakest component of an assembled solar receiver can maintain. Often the
    maximum allowable working pressure is determined by conducting a hydrostatic
    pressure test. Methods for conducting a hydrostatic pressure test are well known in the
    art and will be apparent to the skilled artisan. In one embodiment, the maximum
    allowable working pressure of a solar receiver is determined by essentially completely
30  assembling the solar receiver, capping off the fluid inlet(s) and the fluid outlet(s), and
    pressurizing the low pressure chamber of the solar receiver with an inert gas, e.g., air.
    The low pressure chamber is pressurized, in this embodiment, with the inert gas at a
    relatively slow rate, e.g., at a rate in a range of 1 psi / second to 5 psi / second, until the

   WO 2013/142275                                                             PCT/US2013/031627
                                                   - 45
    low pressure chamber can no longer maintain pressure. The highest pressure maintained
    during the test is the maximum allowable working pressure of the solar receiver. In
    certain embodiments, the weakest component of the solar receiver, such as the solar
    receiver depicted in FIG. 7A, is the seal between the transparent object and the low
 5  pressure chamber.
            As illustrated by FIGS. 7A and 7B, the transparent object 703 may have a variety
    of shapes. For example, the transparent object 703 may have a planar shape (as depicted
    in FIG. 7A) such as a planar disc or a planar object having a polygonal cross-section
    such as a rectangular or square cross-section. The transparent object may have a
10  relatively slight curvature inward (as depicted in FIG. 7B) toward the solar absorber.
    The transparent object may have a semi-circular shape, a parabolic shape, an elliptical
    shape, etc. In some embodiments, a curvature inward toward the solar absorber serves to
    minimize tensile stress due to thermal expansion in the transparent object. Thus, in
    certain embodiments, the transparent object has a certain radius of curvature. The
15  transparent object may, for example, have a radius of curvature of 1 foot to 50 feet, 1
    foot to 10 feet, 1 foot to 5 feet or 1 foot to 2 feet. The transparent object may have a
    radius of curvature of up to 1 foot, 2 feet, 3 feet, 4 feet, 5 feet, 10 feet, 25 feet, 50 feet,
    or more.
            The solar receivers depicted in FIGS. 7A-7C operate at low pressure (e.g., up to
20  and including 2 atmospheres). Because the transparent object 703 is subjected to
    relatively small hydrostatic stresses under normal operation, it may be constructed to
    have a relatively large diameter and relatively small thickness. In some embodiments,
    the transparent object has a diameter in a range 0.5 meter to 5 meters, 2 meters to 4
    meters or .5 meter to 2 meters. In some embodiments, the transparent object has a
25  diameter of 0.5 meter, 1 meter, 1.2 meters, 1.4 meters, 1.6 meters, 1.8 meters, 2 meters, 3
    meters, 4 meters, 5 meters or more. In some embodiments, the diameter of a transparent
    object (e.g., a transparent object that has a certain radius of curvature) is the diameter of
    the rim of the transparent object (e.g., the edge of the transparent object 703 that fits with
    a recess 705 of the low pressure chamber 700).
30          The thickness of the transparent object 703 may influence the extent to which the
    transparent object 703 absorbs solar radiation, with relatively thick transparent objects
    typically absorbing more solar radiation than relatively thin transparent objects.
    Consequently, the thickness of the transparent object influences the extent to which the

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 46
    transparent object is subjected to thermal stress during operation of the solar receiver. It
    is therefore often desirable for the transparent object to have a relatively small thickness,
    in order to minimize thermal stress. In some embodiments, the thickness of the
    transparent object is in a range of 0.25 inch to 4 inches, 0.5 inch to 2 inches, or 0.5 inch
 5  to 1 inch. In some embodiments, the thickness of the transparent object is 0.25 inch, 0.5
    inch, 1 inch, 1.5 inch, 2 inches, 3 inches, 4 inches or more. However, the invention is
    not limited to transparent objects having these thicknesses. Other thicknesses may be
    suitable in some cases.
             The solar absorber is typically constructed of a material that can withstand
10  relatively high temperatures, that can absorb incident radiation and that can readily
    transfer thermal energy to a working fluid that is in contact with the absorber. For
    example, solar absorbers may be constructed of a metals, stainless steels, ceramics, heat
    resistant cast alloys, high temperature metallic materials, refractory materials, thoria
    dispersed alloys, graphite, or carbon-fiber-reinforced carbon-based materials.
15  Appropriate ceramics for solar absorbers include, for example, glass ceramics, silicon
    carbide, silicon nitride, alumina, and silicon oxide. The solar absorber may have any of a
    variety of forms. Typically, the solar absorber is designed and constructed to have a
    relatively high surface area for contact with a working fluid. The solar absorber typically
    comprises a plurality of channels or passages through which a working fluid may pass.
20  In passing through the fluid channels or passages of the solar absorber, the working fluid
    acquires thermal energy through contact with the absorber. The absorber may have a
    wire mesh, honeycomb or foam configuration, for example. Often, the solar absorber
    comprises a black surface coating, covering at least a portion of the absorber surface, to
    facilitate absorption of incident solar radiation. In some embodiments of the foregoing
25  solar receivers, the solar absorber is a combination of both a wire mesh absorber and a
    ceramic absorber. In such embodiments, the wire mesh absorber can be the air inlet
    absorber and the ceramic absorber can be the air exit absorber. In other embodiments,
    the ceramic absorber can be the air inlet absorber and the wire mesh absorber can be the
    air exit absorber.
30           In some embodiments of the solar receivers, the multiple segments of the solar
    absorber are held in position by a ceramic support structure system. In some
    embodiments of the solar receivers, flow-regulation structures are placed on the air inlet
    and/or outlet/exit side of the absorber. In some embodiments, the flow-regulation

   WO 2013/142275                                                             PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 47
    structure is an orifice plate having one or more orifices through which air may pass. In
    some embodiments of the foregoing solar receivers, the flow-regulation structures are
    made of ceramic, metal or other suitable material in which small holes are present for the
    passage of air. In some embodiments, the flow-regulation structure is configured to
 5  produce a relatively laminar air flow. In some embodiments, the flow-regulation
    structure is configured to direct air flow in a relatively uniform manner across an
    absorber.
             The low pressure solar receivers depicted in FIGS. 7A-7B are fitted with a
    secondary concentrator 706. The secondary concentrator 706 serves to collect
10  concentrated solar radiation from a primary concentrator, e.g., a heliostat field, or other
    source, and direct that solar radiation into the opening 708 of the solar receiver. The
    secondary concentrator 706, in some embodiments, improves the solar collection
    efficiency of the solar receiver. The second concentrator 706 is often constructed with a
    plurality of reflective panels 707, each reflective panel typically having a reflective
15  surface and a predetermined shape. The plurality of reflective panels 707 are typically
    arranged in a configuration that facilitates reflection of incident solar radiation toward
    the receiver opening 708. In some embodiments, the plurality of reflective panels are
    arranged such that the secondary concentrator has an overall parabolic shape, although
    other shapes may be suitable. For example, the secondary concentrator may have an
20  elliptical shape, a semi-circular shape, a hyperbolic shape, etc.
             A cross-section of the secondary concentrator that is parallel with the opening of
    the receiver may also have a variety of shapes. For example, the cross-section of the
    secondary concentrator that is parallel with the opening of the receiver may have a
    circular shape, an elliptical shape, a polygonal shape, a rectangular shape, etc.
25           The size and shape of the secondary concentrator 706 (e.g., the diameter of the
    outer most portion of the secondary concentrator, the depth of the secondary
    concentrator, etc.) may vary depending on a variety of factors, including, for example,
    the desired collection efficiency, the size and arrangement of the primary concentrator(s),
    the size of the opening of the receiver, the thermal properties of the solar absorber, etc.
30  In some embodiments, the ratio of the depth of the secondary concentrator to the
    diameter of the opening of the receiver is 1, 1.25, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 5, or more. In some
    embodiments, the ratio of the depth of the secondary concentrator to the diameter of the
    opening of the receiver is in a range of I to 1.5, 1 to 2.5, 1 to 3, 1 to 4, or I to 5. In some

   WO 2013/142275                                                             PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 48
    embodiments, the ratio of the outer most diameter of the secondary concentrator to the
    diameter of the opening of the receiver is 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5.5, 6 or more. In
    some embodiments, the ratio of the depth of the secondary concentrator to the diameter
    of the opening of the receiver is in a range of 1.5 to 2, 1.5 to 3, 1.5 to 4, 1.5 to 5, or 1.5 to
 5  6.
            FIG. 7C depicts an exemplary solar receiver having a fluid inlet 701 and fluid
    outlet 702 that enter and exit, respectively, the solar receiver on different sides of a low
    pressure fluid chamber. In this embodiment, the solar receiver is connected to a
    secondary concentrator 706 that has a rectangularly shaped opening.
10          FIG. 7D depicts an exemplary solar receiver having a low pressure fluid chamber
    716 comprising one or more fluid inlets 7151-2 and a fluid outlet 714, a solar absorber
    712, and a regenerator structure 717 housing a rotary regenerator matrix 713. In this
    embodiment, thermal energy from concentrated solar radiation is directed and
    concentrated, at least in part, by a secondary concentrator 718 into the low pressure fluid
15  chamber 716 through a transparent object 711 and impinges a solar absorber 712 thereby
    heating the solar absorber 712. The solar absorber 712 transfers thermal energy to a
    relatively low temperature working fluid passing within the low pressure fluid chamber
    716, thereby creating a relatively high temperature working fluid. The relatively high
    temperature fluid leaving the low pressure fluid chamber passes through a rotary
20  regenerator matrix 713 and transfers thermal energy to the rotary regenerator matrix 713.
            The rotary regenerator matrix 713, in FIG. 7D, rotates between two fluidically
    isolated conduits. The first conduit being a flow path for fluid exiting the low pressure
    fluid chamber 716 of the solar receiver, and the second conduit being a flow path of a
    second fluid system. For example, the rotary regenerator matrix 713 may transfer
25  thermal energy from the relatively high temperature fluid leaving the low pressure fluid
    chamber 716 to a second fluid passing through a conduit adjacent to the receiver that is
    in fluid communication with the rotary regenerator matrix. The second fluid may be, for
    example, a fluid, e.g., ambient air, entering the compressor of a gas turbine, or a fluid
    used to heat a secondary thermal storage material.
30          Figure FIG. 7E depicts a cross-sectional view of an exemplary solar receiver 719
    that transfers thermal energy from concentrated solar radiation to a low pressure working
    fluid. The solar receiver 719 includes an outer housing 720 defining a first fluid conduit
    721 and a fluid inlet 722. The outer housing 720 further defines an aperture 723 for

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 49
    receiving solar radiation at the front end of the solar receiver 719. A transparent object
    724 is connected to the outer housing 720 through a flange assembly 725 at the aperture
    723. The solar receiver 719 also includes an inner housing 726 that defines a second
    fluid conduit 727 and a fluid outlet 728. As described further below, the second fluid
 5  conduit 727 is co-axial with the first fluid conduit 721. In addition, a solar absorber 732
    is connected to the inner housing 726 at a position in proximity to the aperture 723.
    While inlet conduits and outlet conduits may be co-axial, it should be appreciated that, in
    some embodiments, the inlet conduit and outlet conduit are not co-axial.
             In an exemplary implementation, concentrated solar radiation is directed to the
10  aperture 723, passes through the transparent object 724 and, after passing through the
    transparent object 724, and impinges the solar absorber 732, thereby heating the solar
    absorber 732. The solar receiver 719 defines a fluid path beginning from the fluid inlet
    722, traversing forward through the first fluid conduit 721 toward the aperture 723. The
    fluid traverses across the inner side of the transparent object 724, passes through a
15  plurality of passages in the solar absorber 732, passes through the second fluid conduit
    727, and exits the solar receiver 719 through the fluid outlet 728.
             In certain embodiments, a fluid inlet 722 is at a position in relative proximity to
    the transparent object 724 such that fluid enters the receiver in relative proximity to the
    transparent object 724. When fluid enters the receiver in this manner it can more readily
20  pass through the solar absorber in some configurations, such as, for example, when the
    receiver has a relatively large diameter.
             The fluid inlet 722 may be fluidically connected with a gas turbine exhaust outlet
    or other working fluid supply conduit, such that a relatively low temperature (e.g.,
    approximately 1100 'F) fluid enters the solar receiver 719. The solar absorber 732
25  transfers thermal energy to the relatively low temperature fluid as it travels through the
    plurality of passages in the solar absorber 732, thereby heating the fluid to a relatively
    high temperature (e.g., approximately 1800 'F).     The fluid outlet 728 may be fluidically
    connected with a gas turbine compressor inlet, a heat storage unit, or other downstream
    component that uses the relatively high temperature fluid.
30           The solar receiver 719 includes a flange assembly 725 for connecting the
    transparent object 724 at the aperture 723. The flange assembly 725 includes an outer
    flange 729 that is connected to an inner flange 730. The flange assembly 725 is
    generally composed of materials that are tolerant to operation at relatively high

   WO 2013/142275                                                             PCT/US2013/031627
                                                    - 50
    temperatures (e.g., capable of operating at temperatures in the range of 1700 to 2000 'F).
    Use of a high temperature tolerant materials ensures that the flange assembly 725 will
    not fail (e.g., melt or degrade) if concentrated solar radiation (e.g., radiation directed to
    the receiver from a heliostat field) is improperly directed such that excess solar radiation
 5  impinges on the flange assembly 725. Moreover, in certain embodiments the flange
    assembly 725 is composed of materials having thermal properties similar to that of the
    transparent object 724 to minimize the risk of damage to the flange assembly 725 or
    transparent object 724 due to differential thermal expansion of the components. For
    example, if the transparent object 724 is composed of quartz, then it may be
10  advantageous to select materials for the flange assembly 725 that have a similar
    coefficient of thermal expansion as quartz. Exemplary materials for the flange assembly
    725 include, for example, ceramics and other high temperature tolerant materials
    disclosed herein or otherwise known in the art. The outer flange 729 and inner flange
    730 are connected, in the illustrated embodiment, by a plurality of bolts positioned
15  around the flange assembly 725. Flange assembly 725 is also bolted to the outer housing
    720. In some configurations, bolts connecting the outer flange 729 and inner flange 730
    serve to join the entire flange assembly 725 to the outer housing 720. In other
    configurations, separate bolts join the flange assembly 725 to the outer housing 720. The
    holes for bolts joining the flange assembly 725 to the outer housing 720 may be shaped
20  as radial slots to permit differential thermal expansion of the flange assembly 725 and
    outer housing 720, and to allow for bolt movement within the slots.
             The transparent object 724 is connected to the aperture 723 by way of a flange
    assembly 725. Flexible seals 7311_3 are positioned in seal cavities within the flange
    assembly 725 and provide contact between the flange assembly 725 and transparent
25  object 724 at front, rear and circumferential surfaces of the transparent object 724. The
    flexible seals   7311_3 allow for differential thermal expansion (thermal growth) between
    the flange assembly 725 and the transparent object 724 in the axial direction (forward
    and rearward expansion) and radial direction (circumferential expansion). The flexible
    seals 7311_3   prevent direct contact (hard points) between the transparent object 724 and
30  the flange assembly 725 by providing sealing surfaces with relatively low contact stress.
    The flexible seals 7 3 113 provide support for the transparent object 724 during operation
    and shipping, and spread the sealing contact load to enhance component life. The
    flexible seals   7311_3 may be made from ceramic fiber rope or an equivalent sealing

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 51
    material suitable for high temperature operation and for conforming to the dimensions of
    the seal cavity in the flange assembly 725 .
             The solar receiver 719 includes a transparent object 724 (which may be referred
    to as a window) that is composed quartz silica glass. The transparent object 724 may
 5  have a curved shaped to contain and distribute internal pressure, and to tolerate thermal
    stresses from differential temperature exposure. The curved shape of the transparent
    object 724 also limits the formation of destructively high tensile stresses. The
    transparent object 724 may be designed to accommodate implementations that give rise
    to relatively high temperatures at its center portion and relatively cooler temperatures at
10  portions in proximity to the flange. Thus, the transparent object 724 may function in
    some implementations as a thermal hinge to accommodate thermal growth without
    developing destructively high tensile stresses. The curved (or bowl shape) of the
    transparent object 724 in the illustrated embodiment also facilitates, and to an extent
    directs, flow of a relatively low temperature fluid toward and through the solar absorber
15  732. The relatively low temperature fluid may also function to cool the transparent
    object 724 as it passes over the internal surfaces of the transparent object 724.
             In some embodiments the transparent object is constructed of one piece, e.g., a
    single solid quartz silica glass window. However, in other embodiments, the transparent
    object is constructed of several segments that are fitted together, joined together or
20  butted together. In some embodiments, a transparent object having a diameter in a range
    of 2 meters to 4 meters, or more, is constructed of multiple segments (e.g., 2, 3, 4 or
    more segments).
             The solar receiver 719 is configured and arranged with coaxial (co-annular) first
    and second fluid conduits, with the first fluid conduit 721 providing a passage for a
25  relatively low temperature fluid and the second fluid conduit 727 providing a passage for
    a relatively high temperature fluid that has acquired thermal energy from the solar
    absorber 732. The solar receiver 719 accommodates a relatively low temperature fluid
    (e.g., approximately 1100 'F) passing through the first fluid conduit 721 and relatively
    high temperature fluid (e.g., approximately 1800 'F) passing through the second fluid
30  conduit 727 with minimal insulation, and minimal thermal losses, in certain
    embodiments. For example, thermal losses from the second fluid conduit 727 are
    transferred into the first fluid conduit 721 and thus not lost in the overall thermal cycle.

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 52
            Moreover, the low pressure operation (e.g., operation at up to 1.1 atm) of the
    solar receiver 719 can allow for the housings that define the first and second fluid
    conduits 721, 727 to be constructed of light weight and low cost materials, and enable
    factory fabrication and easy on-site installation. In certain configuration, the outer
 5  housing 720 is constructed of materials suitable for operation at temperatures in a range
    of 1000 'F to 1200 'F (e.g., approximately 1100 'F). For example, the outer housing
    720 may be constructed of stainless steel or other similar material. The outer housing
    720 may have an external insulation to conserve thermal energy and provide a safe work
    environment. The inner housing 726 in a typical configuration is constructed of
10  materials suitable for operation at temperatures in a range of 1700 'F to 2000 'F (e.g.,
    approximately 1800 'F). For example, the inner housing 726 may be constructed of
    nickel-based super alloy or other similar material. The inner housing 726 may have
    insulation to minimize the extent to which thermal energy is transferred back to the low
    temperature fluid in the first fluid conduit 721. Because of the low pressure operation
15  conditions of the receiver, in some embodiments, the outer housing 720 and/or inner
    housing 726 has a thickness in a range of 0.00 1 to 0.1 inch (e.g., approximately 0.05
    inch).
            A bellows 733 is connected between the outer housing 720 and inner housing 726
    and allows for differential thermal expansion between the two housings. The bellows
20  733 is typically constructed of a high temperature tolerant material such as for example a
    nickel-based super alloy or other suitable material. The bellows 733 may be connected
    to the outer and inner housings 720, 726 by brazing or welding or other suitable method.
    It should be appreciated, that the solar receiver 719 may be configured with any suitable
    component to control the axial and radial centering of the two housings and to allow for
25  differential thermal expansion between the two housings. Vertical support and slip joints
    may be included between the housings, for example.
            The solar absorber 732 may be constructed of a porous material that defines a
    plurality of passages traversing through the absorber. The solar absorber 732 may for
    example have a honey comb or foam structure. The solar absorber 732 in certain
30  embodiments is constructed of a silicon carbide material. In other embodiments, the
    solar absorber 732 may be constructed of other suitable materials, including any of the
    materials disclosed herein for solar absorbers. The solar absorber 732 is positioned in a
    recess 735 defined by the inner housing 726. The inner housing 726 is fixed to the outer

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 53
    housing 720 at the position of the recess 735 by bolts 7341-2, which comprise set pins at
    their ends that enter into holes in the solar absorber 732 to position the solar absorber
    732.
            The overall shape of the solar absorber 732 may be curved. For example, the
 5  solar absorber 732 may have radius of curvature that is similar to that of the transparent
    object 724. The overall shape of the solar absorber 732 may alternatively be
    substantially planar. The solar absorber 732 may be single solid object or may be
    arranged as a set of segmented components. The solar absorber 732 may be arranged,
    for example, as a set of pie-shaped segments in a bowl configuration that fits within the
10  solar receiver 719. The segmented design allows for differential thermal expansion of
    the different segments and thus accommodates uneven temperature distributions across
    the solar absorber . In some configurations temperature distributions across the solar
    absorber 732 may be controlled, at least to an extent, by including an orifice plate (e.g., a
    ceramic orifice plate) at the front end of the solar absorber. The orifice plate may
15  include a series of orifices configured and arranged to facilitate a substantially even
    distribution of fluid passing into the solar absorber 732 across the entire absorber fluid
    inlet 722 face. The orifice plate may be retained in the receiver around its outer rim to
    control axial and radial movement. In some embodiments, orifice plates are designed to
    achieve uniform flow. In other embodiments, orifice plates are designed to have
20  different numbers and/or diameters of holes with respect to a specific location in the
    plate. In some embodiments, the orifice plates are designed to vary flow through one or
    more regions of an absorber. In some embodiments, orifice plates that vary flow through
    one or more regions of an absorber are configured to manage heat transfer from the
    absorber to air flowing the absorber and thereby to manage temperatures on the exit side
25  of the absorber. In some embodiments, orifice plates that vary flow are advantageous
    because solar flux may vary from one part of the absorber to another and the orifice plate
    can compensate for differences in absorber temperature by altering the flow over the
    absorber to create a more uniform heat transfer.
            It should be appreciated that the solar receiver 719 may operate at pressures of up
30  to 1.1 atm, up to 1.2 atm, up to 1.3 atm, up to 1.4 atm, up to 1.5 atm, or up to 2 atm. In
    particular embodiments, the receiver is configured and arranged for operating at
    pressures in the range of above 1 atm to 1.5 atm. In other embodiments, the receiver is
    configured and arranged for operating at pressures in the range of above 1 atm to 1.2

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                - 54
    atm. Moreover, in some embodiments, the solar absorber 732 has a radius of curvature
    (A) in a range of 50 to 250 inches. In some embodiments, the solar absorber 732 has a
    radius of curvature (A) in a range of 150 to 200 inches. In some embodiments, the solar
    absorber 732 has a radius of curvature (A) of 170 to 190 inches. Alternatively, the solar
 5  absorber may be substantially planar. In some embodiments, the transparent object 724
    has a radius of curvature (B) in a range of 50 to 250 inches. In some embodiments, the
    transparent object 724 has a radius of curvature (B) in a range of 150 to 200 inches. In
    some embodiments, the transparent object 724 has a radius of curvature (B) of 170 to
    190 inches. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the inner housing 726 has an
10  internal diameter (C) in a range of 10 to 50 inches. In some embodiments, at least a
    portion of the inner housing 726 has an internal diameter (C) in a range of 20 to 40
    inches. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the inner housing 726 has an internal
    diameter (C) in a range of 30 to 35 inches. In some embodiments, at least a portion of
    the outer housing 720 has an internal diameter (D) in a range of 25 to 65 inches. In some
15  embodiments, at least a portion of the outer housing 720 has an internal diameter (D) in a
    range of 35 to 55 inches. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the outer housing
    720 has an internal diameter (D) in a range of 40 to 50 inches. In some embodiments,
    the thickness (E) of the transparent object is in a range of about 0.5 inch to about 3
    inches. In some embodiments, the thickness (E) of the transparent object is in a range of
20  about 1 inch to about 2.5 inches. In some embodiments, the thickness (E) of the
    transparent object is in a range of about 1.5 inches to about 2 inches. In some
    embodiments, the flange assembly defines an opening having a diameter (F) in a range of
    46 inches to 86 inches. In some embodiments, the flange assembly defines an opening
    having a diameter (F) in a range of 56 inches to 76 inches. In some embodiments, the
25  flange assembly defines an opening having a diameter (F) in a range of 60 inches to 70
    inches. In some embodiments, the distance (G) between the inner face of the transparent
    object 724 and the outer face of the solar absorber 732 is in a range of 2 to 12 inches. In
    some embodiments, the distance (G) between the inner face of the transparent object 724
    and the outer face of the solar absorber 732 is in a range of 5 to 8 inches. However, other
30  sizes may be suitable in some configurations.
            FIGs. 7F and 7G each depict an example of a low pressure solar receiver having a
    low pressure fluid chamber comprising a fluid inlet 7411-2, a fluid outlet 742, and an
    opening for receiving concentrated solar radiation; and a solar absorber 744 housed

   WO 2013/142275                                                                 PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 55
    within the low pressure fluid chamber, similar to that depicted in FIG 7E. The low
    pressure solar receivers in FIGs. 7F-G each include a first transparent object 736 that
    defines at least a portion of a wall of the low pressure fluid chamber; and a second
    transparent object 737 in juxtaposition with the first transparent object 736. The first
 5  transparent object 736 and the second transparent object 737 are configured such that a
    first fluid flow path 740 is defined between the first transparent object 736 and the
    second transparent object 737. In each example, concentrated solar radiation received
    through the opening passes through the transparent objects into the low pressure fluid
    chamber and impinges upon the solar absorber, in a similar manner to that depicted in
10  FIG7E.
             In the configurations depicted in FIGs. 7F and 7G, external cooling air enters the
    first fluid flow path 740 at external air inlets 7 3 8 1-2, and exits the first fluid flow path 740
    through outlet 739. External air passing through the first fluid flow path 740 between the
    first transparent object 736 and second transparent object 737 cools the first transparent
15  object 736 and second transparent object 737. In some configurations, the low pressure
    fluid chamber defines a second fluid flow path 743 extending from the fluid inlet(s)           7 4 11_
    2  to the fluid outlet(s) 742, in which, between the fluid inlet(s)     7411-2   and the fluid
    outlet(s) 742, the second fluid flow path 744 extends across at least a portion of a
    transparent object 736 and through one or more passages within the solar absorber 744.
20           In the configuration depicted in FIG 7F, the first transparent object 736 and the
    second transparent object 737 are configured such that the first fluid flow path 740 is
    fluidically isolated from the second fluid flow path 743. Also, in the configuration
    depicted in FIG 7F, the second transparent object 737 comprises one or more openings
    739 that fluidically connect the first fluid flow path 740 with the environment
25  surrounding the solar receiver. In the configuration depicted in FIG 7G, the first
    transparent object 736 comprises one or more openings 739 that fluidically connects the
    first fluid flow path 740 and the second fluid flow path 743.
             In some embodiments, a solar receiver is provided that comprises a low pressure
    fluid chamber comprising a fluid inlet, a fluid outlet, and an opening for receiving
30  concentrated solar radiation; a solar absorber housed within the low pressure fluid
    chamber; and a plurality of transparent objects that define a segmented wall of the low
    pressure fluid chamber. FIGS. 7H and 71 illustrate examples of pluralities of transparent
    objects arranged to produce segmented walls for a receiver. The segmented wall 745 in

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 56
    FIG 7H is composed of four longitudinally arranged transparent objects Si-S 4 . The
    segmented wall 746 in FIG 71 is composed of eight radially arranged transparent objects
    Si-S 8 . These illustrations are not intended to be limiting. Other appropriate arrangements
    and pluralities of transparent objects may be used to produce segment walls that permit
 5  the passage of solar radiation into the low pressure fluid chamber. In some
    embodiments, the plurality of transparent objects are half tubes (e.g., tubes that have
    been cut length-wise) and are arranged side by side at the opening of the receiver. In
    some embodiments, the tubes are up to 9 inches or more in diameter. In some
    embodiments, the convex side of a tube faces the absorber, and the concave side faces
10  heliostats that direct concentrated solar radiation toward the opening of the receiver. In
    other embodiments, the concave side of a tube faces the absorber, and the convex side
    faces the heliostats. In some embodiments, the tubes are made of quartz silica.
              In some embodiments, the solar receiver is configured such that concentrated
    solar radiation received through the opening passes through the plurality of transparent
15  objects into the low pressure fluid chamber and impinges upon the solar absorber. In
    some embodiments, the low pressure fluid chamber defines a fluid flow path from the
    fluid inlet to the fluid outlet, in which, between the fluid inlet and the fluid outlet, the
    fluid flow path extends across at least a portion of the plurality transparent objects and
    through one or more passages within the solar absorber. In some embodiments, the
20  plurality of transparent objects are configured such that when the pressure within the low
    pressure fluid chamber is lower than the environmental pressure surrounding the solar
    receiver, a fluid (e.g., ambient air) surrounding the solar receiver is drawn into the low
    pressure fluid chamber through gaps between transparent objects of the plurality. In
    some embodiments, the low pressure fluid chamber is configured such that the fluid
25  (e.g., ambient air) that is drawn into the low pressure fluid chamber through gaps
    between transparent objects of the plurality enters the fluid flow path within the low
    pressure fluid chamber and passes through the solar absorber. In some embodiments, as
    the fluid (e.g., ambient air) is drawn into the low pressure fluid chamber through gaps
    between transparent objects of the plurality it cools the transparent objects. FIGS. 8A-8C
30  illustrate a secondary concentrator 800 having an integrated fluid cooling system. The
    secondary concentrator 800 depicted in FIG. 8A includes a plurality of connected
    reflective panels 801. Each of the plurality of reflective panels 801 has a planar shape
    having a polygonal cross-section. Each reflective panel has an inner reflective surface

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 57
    that is positioned to face the inner side of the secondary concentrator 800 and an outer
    surface. The reflective panels 801 are arranged such that the secondary concentrator 800
    deflects concentrated solar radiation to the opening of the receiver to which the
    secondary concentrator 800 is connected. In some embodiments, the reflective panel,
 5  e.g., as depicted in FIG. 8A, has a thickness in a range of 0.1 inch to 1 inch or 0.1 inch to
    0.5 inch.
             In the secondary concentrator 800 depicted in FIG. 8A, the reflective panels are
    arranged to form three conical rings. The arrangement of conical rings is such that the
    conical ring having the smallest diameter is positioned to the rear of the secondary
10  concentrator 800 and the conical ring having the largest diameter is positioned to the
    front of the secondary concentrator 800. In FIG. 8A the secondary concentrator 800
    includes two relatively large diameter cooling pipes 802, 803 that function in part to
    deliver cooling fluid to and from a cooling passage within each reflective panel and also
    to provide a support for arranging and immobilizing the reflective panels 801 into the
15  predetermined shape that facilitates concentration of incoming solar radiation and
    reflection of the incoming concentrated solar radiation to the opening of a low pressure
    receiver.
             FIG. 8B depicts an alternative view of the secondary concentrator 800 showing
    the supply conduit 802, an outlet pipe 803, a smaller diameter pipe 804 in fluid
20  communication with the supply conduit 802 and a cooling passage 806 of a reflective
    panel. The inset at 805 depicts an inlet to a cooling passage 806 of a reflective panel.
             FIG. 8C provides an expanded view of the inset 805 in FIG. 8B. As shown, the
    supply conduit 802 is in fluid communication with cooling passage 806 of the reflective
    panel 801. A series of open slots 810 define passages through which cooling fluid flows
25  from the supply conduit 802 to the cooling passage 806 within the reflective panel 801.
    The casing 808 of the reflective panel 806 and the inner reflective surface 807 are also
    shown. In some embodiments, the casing 808 is a metal sheet having a thickness in a
    range of 0.01 inch to 0.5 inch or 0.1 inch to 0.5 inch.
             Any appropriate cooling fluid may be used to cool a reflective panel having a
30  cooling system such as is depicted in FIGS. 8A-8C. In some embodiments, the cooling
    fluid is a mixture of water and a refrigerant, e.g., ethylene glycol. In some embodiments,
    the cooling fluid is a 50:50 mixture of water and a refrigerant, e.g., ethylene glycol.

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                   - 58
             Reflective panels of a secondary concentrator may comprise any of a variety of
    materials. Typically metals, polymers, glass, or combinations thereof are used.
    Reflective panels may comprise a metal, such as aluminum, silver, or a combination
    thereof. Reflective panels may comprise a non-reflective material having a reflective
 5  coating, e.g., a reflective silver or reflective aluminum coating. Reflective panels may
    comprise a glass substrate, a reflective layer for reflecting solar energy, and optionally an
    interference layer (e.g., a layer between the glass and reflective layer comprised of, for
    example, titanium dioxide). Typically, the reflective panel has at least one surface for
    reflecting solar radiation.
10           FIGS. 9A-9C depict exemplary high pressure receivers that may be used in
    conjunction with the power generation systems disclosed herein. In these embodiments,
    the high pressure receivers include an insulated casing 900 having, a working fluid inlet
    901, a working fluid outlet 902, and an opening 904 connected to the rear portion of a
    secondary concentrator 906. In some embodiments, such as is depicted in FIGS. 9B-9C,
15  the high pressure receiver includes a transparent object 905, e.g., a window, adjacent to
    the opening 904 for receiving solar radiation. As in the low pressure receiver context,
    the secondary concentrator 906 serves to collect concentrated solar radiation from a
    primary concentrator, e.g., a heliostat field, or other source, and direct that solar radiation
    into the opening 904 of the solar receiver.
20           The high pressure fluid (e.g., fluid at a pressure of above 2 atmospheres to 50
    atmospheres) passing through the receiver is retained within the high pressure solar
    absorber 903. The high pressure absorber 903, as exemplified in FIGS. 9A-9C, typically
    comprises a network of passages (e.g., a tubular network) for containing a high pressure
    fluid and directing flow of the high-pressure fluid into and out of the high-pressure solar
25  absorber 903.
             The high-pressure working fluid enters into the high pressure solar absorber 903,
    passes through the network of passages and acquires thermal energy therein, in part,
    through contact with the passage walls. The high pressure solar absorber 903 often has a
    black surface coating to promote absorption of incident solar radiation. The surface
30  coating may be applied using methods well known in the art including, for example, by
    chemical vapor deposition (e.g., a pack cementation process, a gas phase coating process,
    etc.). Moreover, the high pressure absorber is typically constructed from a material that

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 -  59
    can withstand extremely high temperatures, including, for example, temperatures in
    excess of 10000 C.
            The high pressure solar absorber 903 can be designed and constructed in any of a
    variety of forms. As exemplified in FIGS. 9A and 9B, the tubular network may be a
 5  network of tubular coils. As exemplified in FIG. 9C, the tubular network may have a
    shell and tube-type form. Still other configurations, such as, for example, a plate type
    heat exchanger, are envisioned. In some embodiments, the high pressure solar absorber
    comprises a tubular network, wherein tubes of the network have a diameter in a range of
    0.5 inch to 5 inches in diameter and, in some embodiments, a wall-thickness in a range of
10  0.1 inch to 1 inch. In some embodiments, the high pressure solar absorber comprises a
    tubular network, wherein tubes of the network have a diameter in a range of 1 inch to 3
    inches in diameter and, in some embodiments, a wall-thickness in a range of 0.1 inch to
    0.5 inch.
            In some embodiments, the high-pressure solar absorber is constructed from a
15  single crystal super alloy. Often the super alloy contains a nickel base, chromium at a
    level sufficient for oxidation resistance (e.g., at a level of about 10%), aluminum and/or
    titanium (e.g., at levels of about 2.5 %to 5 %) for the formation of the strengthening
    gamma prime phase and refractory metals such as tungsten, molybdenum, tantalum and
    columbium (e.g., at a level of about 2.5 % to 5 %) as solid solution strengtheners.
20  Typically, nickel base super alloys also contain cobalt (e.g., at a level of about 10%) and
    carbon (e.g., at a level of about 0.1%) which acts as a grain boundary strengthener and
    forms carbides which strengthen the alloy. Boron and zirconium are also often added in
    small amounts as grain boundary strengtheners.
            Exemplary single crystal super alloys that may be used in the construction of
25  high-pressure solar absorber are disclosed in the following United State Patents, the
    contents of which, relating to single crystal super alloys, are incorporated herein by
    reference in their entireties: US 4,371,404, US 4,222,794; US 4,514,360; US 4,643,782;
    US 4,765,850; US 4,923,525; US 5,047,091; US 5,077,004; US 5,100,484; US
    5,154,884; US 5,366,695; US 5,399,313; US 5,540,790; and US 6,074,602.
30          Components (e.g., tubes, plate walls, etc.) of the high-pressure solar absorber
    may be manufactured by any appropriate techniques, e.g., extruded or cast. Furthermore,
    components of the high-pressure solar absorber may be bonded together using any one of

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 60
    a variety of methods known in the art, including, for example, laser welding, electron
    beam welding, activated diffusion bonding, etc.
            The transparent object 905 provides a barrier for reducing re-radiation losses,
    whereby the transparent object 905 allows transmission of concentrated solar radiation in
 5  the non-infrared range (e.g., in the visible range) into the solar receiver but does not
    allow transmission of radiation in the infrared range. Thus, thermal re-radiation, which
    emits in primarily the infrared range from the heated high pressure solar absorber, is
    reflected back into in the receiver by the transparent object 905.
            The casing 900 of the receiver is designed and constructed to insulate and provide
10  structural support for the high pressure absorber 903 and to mount the secondary
    concentrator 906. In the exemplary high-pressure receivers depicted in FIGS. 9A-9C,
    the casing 900 operates essentially at ambient pressures. As a result, the transparent
    object, in these embodiments, is not subjected to substantial hydrostatic pressure induced
    stress. Thus, the transparent object can be designed and constructed to relatively large
15  sizes (e.g., sizes in excess of 5 meters, e.g., 5 meters to 10 meters) without concern for
    hydrostatic pressure induced stress. In some embodiments, the transparent object is
    constructed as a combination of multiple transparent objects (e.g., a combination of
    overlapping transparent objects) to obtain a transparent window that functions to prevent
    re-radiation losses. In certain embodiments, the multiple transparent objects are flat. In
20  certain embodiments, the multiple transparent objects are curved. In certain
    embodiments, the multiple transparent objects stand substantially vertically. In certain
    embodiments, the multiple transparent objects are arranged substantially horizontally. In
    certain embodiments, the multiple transparent objects are in the shape of cylinders that
    have been sliced in the longitudinal direction into segments. In certain embodiments, the
25  multiple transparent segments represent one-half of the cylinder. In certain
    embodiments, the multiple transparent segments represent one-third of the cylinder, or
    tube. In certain embodiments, the multiple transparent segments represent one-quarter of
    the cylinder. In certain embodiments, the multiple transparent segments represent one
    sixth of the cylinder. In certain embodiments, the multiple transparent segments are
30  arranged with the concave face of the curved shape directed toward the opening. In
    certain embodiments, the multiple transparent segments are arranged with the convex
    face of the curved shape directed toward the opening. In certain embodiments, the
    multiple transparent segments are arranged with substantially no gaps, or no gaps,

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 61
    between them. In certain embodiments, the multiple transparent segments are arranged
    with gaps between them.
            Unless otherwise indicated, all pressures described herein refer to absolute
    pressures.
 5          The following patents and patent applications are incorporated herein by
    reference in their entirety for all purposes: U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002/0124991,
    published on September 12, 2002, filed February 1,2002, entitled "Low Cost High
    Efficiency Automotive Turbines"; U.S. Patent No.6,681,557, issued on January 27,
    2004, filed February 1, 2002, entitled "Low Cost High Efficiency Automotive Turbines";
10  U.S. Patent No.5,259,444, issued on November 9, 1993, filed November 5, 1990, entitled
    "Heat Exchanger Containing a Component Capable of Discontinuous Movement"; U.S.
    Patent No. RE37134, issued on April 17, 2001, filed March 25, 1995, entitled "Heat
    Exchanger Containing a Component Capable of Discontinuous Movement"; U.S.
    Publication No. 2007/0089283, published on April 26, 2007, filed October 17, 2006,
15  entitled "Intermittent Sealing Device and Method"; U.S. Publication No. 2008/0251234,
    published on October 16, 2008, filed April 16, 2007, entitled" Regenerator Wheel
    Apparatus"; U.S. Publication No. 2009/0000761, published on January 1, 2009, filed
    June 29, 2007. entitled "Regenerative Heat Exchanger with Energy-Storing Drive
    System"; U.S. Publication No. 2009/0000762, published on January 1, 2009, filed June
20  29, 2007,entitled "Brush-Seal and Matrix for Regenerative Heat Exchanger and Method
    of Adjusting Same"; U.S. Publication No. 2006/0054301, published on March 16, 2006,
    filed December 16, 2004, entitled "Variable Area Mass or Area and Mass Species
    Transfer Device and Method"; and International Patent Application Serial No.
    PCT/US2011/052051, filed September 16, 2011, and entitled, "Concentrated Solar
25  Power Generation Using Solar Receivers." The following three U.S. provisional patent
    applications, filed on even date herewith, are also incorporated herein by reference in
    their entirety for all purposes: a U.S. Provisional Patent Application, filed on March 21,
    2012, under Attorney Docket Number W0644.70020US00, entitled Fluid Flow Control
    Devices for Solar Power Systems"; a U.S. Provisional Patent Application, filed on March
30  21, 2012, under Attorney Docket Number W0644.70021US00, entitled "Low Pressure
    Solar Receivers with Double-Walled Windows and Uses Thereof"; and a U.S.
    Provisional Patent Application, filed on March 21, 2012, under Attorney Docket Number

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 62
    W0644.70022US00, entitled "Low Pressure Solar Receivers with Segmented Windows
    and Uses Thereof."
             The following examples are intended to illustrate certain embodiments of the
    present invention, but do not exemplify the full scope of the invention.
 5                                            EXAMPLEl
             This example describes a concentrated solar power generation system in which a
    pressurized solar receiver is used. FIG. 10A includes a schematic diagram of such a
    system. In this example, compressed air from the compressor is fed to the solar receiver
    and heated while pressurized. The heated effluent from the solar receiver is then
10  expanded through the gas turbine to produce power. The exhaust from the gas turbine is
    used to pre-heat the pressurized gas from the compressor before it is transported to the
    solar receiver.
                                              EXAMPLE 2
             This example describes a concentrated solar power generation system in which a
15  thermal storage system is incorporated. FIG. 10B includes a schematic diagram of the
    exemplary system. Air is used as the fluid in this system. The temperatures of process
    streams are indicated in the figure. In this example, ambient air at 59 0 F is supplied to the
    compressor, where it is compressed and heated to a temperature of 1700 'F in a heat
    exchange system comprising one, two or more recuperator heat exchangers. The 1700 'F
20  air is passed through a turbine to generate power, which produces an exhaust stream at
    1100 'F. The turbine exhaust and a portion of the heat exchange system exhaust are
    transported to the solar receiver, where they are heated to 1800 'F. A portion of the solar
    receiver-heated air can be transported to the thermal storage system (similar to a cowper
    stove) for storage. The balance of the solar receiver-heated air is passed to the two-stage
25  heat exchanger, where it is used to heat the compressed air upstream. It should be noted
    that other components, such as a startup combustor and/or a thermal recovery unit, could
    also be included in this example.
                                              EXAMPLE 3
             This example describes a concentrated solar power generation system in which
30  thermal storage is not included. FIG. 1OC includes a schematic diagram of the
    exemplary system. Air is used as the fluid in this system, and the temperatures of
    process streams are indicated in the figure. Similar to the system described in Example
    1, ambient air at 59 0 F is supplied to the compressor, where it is compressed and heated to

   WO 2013/142275                                                             PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 63
    a temperature of 1700 'F in a heat exchange system comprising one, two or more
    recuperator heat exchangers. The 1700 'F air is passed through a turbine to generate
    power, which produces an exhaust stream at 1100 'F. The turbine exhaust (and
    optionally, a portion of the heat exchange system exhaust) is transported to the solar
 5  receiver, where they are heated to 1800 'F. The solar receiver-heated air is then passed
    to the two-stage heat exchanger, where it is used to heat upstream compressed air.
                                            EXAMPLE 4
             This example describes a concentrated solar power generation system in which
    one, two or more thermal storage units and one, two or more rotary heat exchangers are
10  used within the system. FIG. 1OD includes a schematic diagram of the exemplary
    system. In this example, rather than using a two-stage heat exchanger to heat the
    compressed air from the compressor, a single rotary heat exchanger is used. A cross
    sectional view of the rotary heat exchanger is shown in the upper-left corner of the
    figure.
15           FIG. 1OD also includes two thermal storage units. The units can be configured
    such that none, one, or both of the units is able to accept heated air from the solar
    receiver and/or provide heated air to the rotary regenerator for heating the compressed air
    stream to the turbine.
                                            EXAMPLE 5
20           This example describes a concentrated solar power generation system in which
    two or more compressors and two or more turbines are used to produce energy.
    FIG. 1OE includes a schematic diagram of the exemplary system. As in the previous
    examples, stream temperatures are provided in the figure.
                                            EXAMPLE 6
25           This example describes a concentrated solar power generation system in which a
    high-pressure solar receiver and a low-pressure solar receiver are used in a single system.
    FIG. 1OF includes a schematic diagram of the exemplary system. As in the previous
    examples, stream temperatures are provided in the figure. The layout of the components
    in this example is similar to the layout described in association with FIG. 10E.
30           While several embodiments of the present invention have been described and
    illustrated herein, those of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other
    means and/or structures for performing the functions and/or obtaining the results and/or
    one or more of the advantages described herein, and each of such variations and/or

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 64
    modifications is deemed to be within the scope of the present invention. More generally,
    those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that all parameters, dimensions, materials,
    and configurations described herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual
    parameters, dimensions, materials, and/or configurations will depend upon the specific
 5  application or applications for which the teachings of the present invention is/are used.
    Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine
    experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention
    described herein. It is, therefore, to be understood that the foregoing embodiments are
    presented by way of example only and that, within the scope of the appended claims and
10  equivalents thereto, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically
    described and claimed. The present invention is directed to each individual feature,
    system, article, material, and/or method described herein. In addition, any combination
    of two or more such features, systems, articles, materials, and/or methods, if such
    features, systems, articles, materials, and/or methods are not mutually inconsistent, is
15  included within the scope of the present invention.
             The indefinite articles "a" and "an," as used herein in the specification and in the
    claims, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to mean "at least
    one."
             The phrase "and/or," as used herein in the specification and in the claims, should
20  be understood to mean "either or both" of the elements so conjoined, i.e., elements that
    are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Other
    elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified by the
    "and/or" clause, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified
    unless clearly indicated to the contrary. Thus, as a non-limiting example, a reference to
25  "A and/or B," when used in conjunction with open-ended language such as "comprising"
    can refer, in one embodiment, to A without B (optionally including elements other than
    B); in another embodiment, to B without A (optionally including elements other than A);
    in yet another embodiment, to both A and B (optionally including other elements); etc.
             As used herein in the specification and in the claims, "or" should be understood
30  to have the same meaning as "and/or" as defined above. For example, when separating
    items in a list, "or" or "and/or" shall be interpreted as being inclusive, i.e., the inclusion
    of at least one, but also including more than one, of a number or list of elements, and,
    optionally, additional unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary, such

   WO 2013/142275                                                              PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 65
    as "only one of' or "exactly one of," or, when used in the claims, "consisting of," will
    refer to the inclusion of exactly one element of a number or list of elements. In general,
    the term "or" as used herein shall only be interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives
    (i.e., "one or the other but not both") when preceded by terms of exclusivity, such as
 5  "either," "one of," "only one of," or "exactly one of." "Consisting essentially of," when
    used in the claims, shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law.
             As used herein in the specification and in the claims, the phrase "at least one," in
    reference to a list of one or more elements, should be understood to mean at least one
    element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements, but not
10  necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the
    list of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements.
    This definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the
    elements specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase "at least
    one" refers, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus,
15  as a non-limiting example, "at least one of A and B" (or, equivalently, "at least one of A
    or B," or, equivalently "at least one of A and/or B") can refer, in one embodiment, to at
    least one, optionally including more than one, A, with no B present (and optionally
    including elements other than B); in another embodiment, to at least one, optionally
    including more than one, B, with no A present (and optionally including elements other
20  than A); in yet another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one,
    A, and at least one, optionally including more than one, B (and optionally including other
    elements); etc.
             In the claims, as well as in the specification above, all transitional phrases such as
    "comprising," "including," "carrying," "having," "containing," "involving," "holding,"
25  and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e., to mean including but not limited
    to. Only the transitional phrases "consisting of' and "consisting essentially of' shall be
    closed or semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively, as set forth in the United States
    Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures, Section 2111.03.

   WO 2013/142275                                                            PCT/US2013/031627
                                                  - 66
                                               CLAIMS
    What is claimed is:
    1.       A solar receiver comprising:
             a low pressure fluid chamber configured for operating at pressures up to 2
 5  atmospheres, and comprising a fluid inlet, a fluid outlet, and an opening for receiving
    concentrated solar radiation;
             a solar absorber housed within the low pressure fluid chamber; and
             a plurality of transparent objects that define a segmented wall of the low pressure
    fluid chamber;
10           wherein concentrated solar radiation received through the opening passes through
    the segmented wall and between transparent objects to pass into the low pressure fluid
    chamber and impinges upon the solar absorber.
    2.       The solar receiver of claim 1, wherein the low pressure fluid chamber defines a
15  fluid flow path from the fluid inlet to the fluid outlet,
             wherein, between the fluid inlet and the fluid outlet, the fluid flow path extends
    across at least a portion of the transparent object and through one or more passages
    within the solar absorber.
20  3.       The solar receiver of claim 1 or 2,
             wherein the plurality of transparent objects are configured such that when the
    pressure within the low pressure fluid chamber is lower than the environmental pressure
    surrounding the solar receiver, a fluid surrounding the solar receiver is drawn into the
    low pressure fluid chamber through gaps between transparent objects of the plurality.
25
    4.       The solar receiver of claim 3, wherein the low pressure fluid chamber is
    configured such that the fluid that is drawn into the low pressure fluid chamber through
    gaps between transparent objects of the plurality enters the fluid flow path.
30  5.       The solar receiver of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the low pressure fluid
    chamber is configured for operating at pressures below atmospheric.
    6.       A solar receiver comprising:

   WO 2013/142275                                                             PCT/US2013/031627
                                                   - 67
             a low pressure fluid chamber configured for operating at pressures up to 2
    atmospheres, and comprising a fluid inlet, a fluid outlet, and an opening for receiving
    concentrated solar radiation;
             a solar absorber housed within the low pressure fluid chamber;
 5           a first transparent object that defines at least a portion of a wall of the low
    pressure fluid chamber; and
             a second transparent object in juxtaposition with the first transparent object,
    wherein the first transparent object and the second transparent object are configured such
    that a first fluid flow path is defined between the first transparent object and the second
10  transparent object,
             wherein concentrated solar radiation received through the opening passes through
    the first transparent object and second transparent object into the low pressure fluid
    chamber and impinges upon the solar absorber.
15  7.       The solar receiver of claim 6, wherein the low pressure fluid chamber defines a
    second fluid flow path from the fluid inlet to the fluid outlet,
             wherein, between the fluid inlet and the fluid outlet, the second fluid flow path
    extends across at least a portion of the first and/or second transparent objects and through
    one or more passages within the solar absorber.
20
    8.       The solar receiver of claim 7, wherein the first transparent object comprises one
    or more openings that fluidically connect the first fluid flow path and the second fluid
    flow path.
25  9.       The solar receiver of claim 7, wherein the first transparent object and the second
    transparent object are configured such that the first fluid flow path is fluidically isolated
    from the second fluid flow path.
    10.      The solar receiver of any one of claims 7-9, wherein the second transparent object
30  comprises one or more openings that fluidically connect the first fluid flow path with the
    environment surrounding the solar receiver.

   WO 2013/142275                                                               PCT/US2013/031627
                                                    - 68
    11.      The solar receiver of any one of claims 6-10, wherein the low pressure fluid
    chamber is configured for operating at pressures below atmospheric.
    12.      A power generation system, comprising:
 5           a solar receiver;
             a compressor;
             a turbine;
             a first thermal storage system;
             a second thermal storage system; and
10           a valving subsystem configured such that:
                      in a first valving position, a first fluidic pathway is present between the
             solar receiver and the first thermal storage system, and a second fluidic pathway
             is present between the compressor, the turbine, and the second thermal storage
             system; and
15                    in a second valving position, a third fluidic pathway is present between
             the solar receiver and the second thermal storage system, and a fourth fluidic
             pathway is present between the compressor, the turbine, and the first thermal
             storage system.
20  13.      The power generation system of claim 12, wherein the valving subsystem
    comprises a plurality of three-way valves.
    14.      The power generation system of any one of claims 12-13, wherein the first and
    third fluidic pathways contain a fluid at a pressure of less than or equal to 2 atmospheres.
25
    15.      The power generation system of any one of claims 12-14, wherein the second and
    fourth fluidic pathways contain a fluid at a pressure of above 2 atmospheres.
    16.      The power generation system of any one of claims 12-15, wherein the first and
30  second fluidic pathways are fluidically isolated from each other.
    17.      The power generation system of any one of claims 12-16, wherein the third and
    fourth fluidic pathways are fluidically isolated from each other.

   WO 2013/142275                                                              PCT/US2013/031627
                                                   - 69
    18.     The power generation system of any one of claims 12-17, wherein the first and/or
    second thermal storage systems each comprise a single thermal storage unit.
    19.     The power generation system of any one of claims 12-17, wherein the first and/or
 5  second thermal storage systems each comprise a plurality of thermal storage units.
    20.     A power generation system, comprising:
            a first fluidic pathway fluidically interconnecting a solar receiver and a first
    thermal storage system; and
10          a second fluidic pathway fluidically interconnecting a compressor, a turbine, and
    a second thermal storage system, wherein:
                      the first thermal storage system is fluidically isolated from the second
            thermal storage system, and
                      the system is configured such that the solar receiver heats fluid within the
15          first fluidic pathway during at least a portion of the time during which the turbine
            is used to generate power using fluid within the second fluidic pathway.
    21.     The power generation system of claim 20, further comprising a valving
    subsystem configured such that:
20          when the valving subsystem is in a first valving position, the first fluidic pathway
    transports fluid between the solar receiver and the first thermal storage system, and the
    second fluidic pathway transports fluid between the compressor, the turbine, and the
    second thermal storage system, and
            when the valving subsystem is in a second valving position, a third fluidic
25  pathway is transports fluid between the solar receiver and the second thermal storage
    system, and a fourth fluidic pathway transports fluid between the compressor, the
    turbine, and the first thermal storage system.
    22.     The power generation system of any one of claims 20-21, wherein the first fluidic
30  pathway contains a fluid at a pressure of less than or equal to 2 atmospheres.
    23.     The power generation system of any one of claims 20-22, wherein the second
    fluidic pathway contains a fluid at a pressure of above 2 atmospheres.

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 70
    24.     The power generation system of any one of claims 20-23, wherein the first and/or
    second thermal storage systems each comprise a single thermal storage unit.
 5  25.     The power generation system of any one of claims 20-23, wherein the first and/or
    second thermal storage systems each comprise a plurality of thermal storage units.
    26.     A fluid flow control device, comprising:
            a housing constructed of an investment casted metal alloy and defining a fluid
10  chamber, the fluid chamber having a first opening, a second opening, and a third
    opening, each opening being configured to permit flow of a fluid into or out from the
    fluid chamber;
            a disc-shaped member having a circumferential surface about which are
    positioned one or more removable circumferential sealing elements, the disc-shaped
15  member being rotatably positioned within the fluid chamber such that each of the one or
    more circumferential sealing elements interfaces with an inner surface of the fluid
    chamber, and such that in a first operating position the disc-shaped member defines
    within the fluid chamber a fluid flow path between the first and second openings that is
    fluidically isolated from the third opening, and in a second operating position the disc
20  shaped member defines within the fluid chamber a fluid flow path between the second
    and third openings that is fluidically isolated from the first opening; and
            a stem component having a first end positioned outside the fluid chamber, an
    elongated shaft extending through a passage through the housing into the fluid chamber,
    and a second end connected to the disc-shaped member inside the fluid chamber, the
25  stem component being configured such that rotation of the stem component causes the
    disc-shaped member to rotate within the fluid chamber between at least the first and
    second operating positions, wherein the fluid-flow device is configured to operate at a
    temperature in a range of 1000 F to 2500 F.
30  27.     A fluid flow control device, comprising:
            a housing defining a fluid chamber, the fluid chamber having a first opening, a
    second opening, and a third opening, each opening being configured to permit flow of a
    fluid into or out from the fluid chamber;

   WO 2013/142275                                                           PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 -71
            a disc-shaped member having a circumferential surface about which are
    positioned at least two circumferential sealing elements, the disc-shaped member being
    rotatably positioned within the fluid chamber such that the each of the at least two
    circumferential sealing elements interfaces with an inner surface of the fluid chamber,
 5  and such that in a first operating position the disc-shaped member defines within the
    fluid chamber a fluid flow path between the first and second openings that is fluidically
    isolated from the third opening, and in a second operating position the disc-shaped
    member defines within the fluid chamber a fluid flow path between the second and third
    openings that is fluidically isolated from the first opening; and
10          a stem component having a first end positioned outside the fluid chamber, an
    elongated shaft extending through a passage through the housing into the fluid chamber,
    and a second end connected to the disc-shaped member inside the fluid chamber, the
    stem component being configured such that rotation of the stem component causes the
    disc-shaped member to rotate within the fluid chamber between at least the first and
15  second operating positions,
            wherein the fluid-flow device is configured to operate at a temperature in a range
    of 1000 F to 2500 F, and wherein the at least two circumferential sealing elements are
    positioned on opposite sides of where the stem component connects to the disc-shaped
    member, optionally wherein the two circumferential sealing elements are constructed of
20  a cobalt base material.
    28.     A fluid flow control device, comprising:
            a housing constructed of a precision investment casted metal alloy and defining a
    fluid chamber, the fluid chamber having a first opening and a second opening, each
25  opening being configured to permit flow of a fluid into or out from the fluid chamber;
            a disc-shaped member having a circumferential surface about which are
    positioned one or more circumferential sealing elements, the disc-shaped member being
    rotatably positioned within the fluid chamber such that each of the one or more
    circumferential sealing elements interfaces with an inner surface of the fluid chamber,
30  and such that in a first operating position a fluid flow path exists between the first and
    second openings, and in a second operating position the disc-shaped member fluidically
    isolates the first and second openings; and

   WO 2013/142275                                                          PCT/US2013/031627
                                                 - 72
             a stem component having at least one end positioned outside the fluid chamber,
    and an elongated shaft extending through at least one passage through the housing into
    the fluid chamber, the stem component being connected to the disc-shaped member
    inside the fluid chamber and being configured such that rotation of the stem component
 5  causes the disc-shaped member to rotate within the fluid chamber between at least the
    first and second operating positions,
             wherein the fluid-flow device is configured to operate at a temperature in a range
    of 1000 F to 2500 F.
10  29.      The fluid flow control device of claim 26 or 28, wherein the metal alloy is a
    stainless steel alloy, or a nickel base superalloy.
    30.      The fluid flow control device of any one of claims 26-29, wherein the stem
    component is connected to an automatically controlled motor.
15
    31.      The fluid flow control device of any one of claims 26-30, wherein the stem
    component is configured to rotate the disc-shaped member 360 degrees.
    32.      The fluid flow control device of any one of claims 26-3 1, wherein the angle of
20  rotation of the disc shaped member between the first and second operating positions is 90
    degrees.
    33.      The fluid flow control device of any one of claims 26-32, wherein the
    circumferential sealing elements are constructed of a cobalt base material.
25
    34.      The fluid flow control device of any one of claims 26-33, wherein the
    circumferential sealing elements are piston rings
    35.      The fluid flow control device of any one of claims 26-34, wherein the stem
30  component passes through a bushing that is positioned within the passage through the
    housing, optionally wherein at least a surface of the bushing that confronts the stem
    component is constructed of a cobalt base material.

  WO 2013/142275                                                      PCT/US2013/031627
                                             - 73
   36.    The fluid flow control device of any one of claims 26-35, wherein the stem
   component is constructed of a cobalt base material.
5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
