      ANTI-CONNEXIN COMPOUNDS AND USES THEREOF
Abstract
Methods and compositions for modulating the activities of connexins are provided,
including, for example, for use for treatment of cardiovascular, vascular, neurological,
for wounds and for other indications.     These compounds and methods can be used
therapeutically, for example, to reduce the severity of adverse effects associated
diseases and disorders where localized disruption in direct cell-cell communication or
prevention of hemichannel opening is desirable.

                   ANTI-CONNEXIN COMPOUNDS AND USES THEREOF
                    CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         The ultimate parent of this application claims priority from Provisional Application U. S.S.N.
  60/650,075, filed February 3, 2005, by Colin R. Green and David L. Becker, entitled "Anti
  connexin compounds and methods of use", the contents of which is hereby incorporated by
  reference in its entirety. The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent
  Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
  2013216578, which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2011200924, which
  is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2006257283 (PCT/IB2006/001961).
  The contents of each of those patent applications is incorporated herein by reference in their
  entirety.
                                                 FIELD
         The present disclosure relates to pharmaceuticals, including agents, compounds,
compositions, formulations, and methods for modulation of gap-junctions and hemichannels
that are useful, for example, in the prevention and treatment of various diseases, disorders
and conditions, including but not limited to cardiovascular, neurological, and vascular
diseases, disorders and conditions.
                                           BACKGROUND
         The following includes information that may be useful in understanding the present
inventions. It is not an admission that any of the information provided herein is prior art, or
relevant, to the presently described or claimed inventions, or that any publication or
document that is specifically or implicitly referenced is prior art.
         Coronary heart disease is the leading cause of death in most western countries.
Mortality rates for cardiovascular disease have been reported to vary from 29 (in males, 24
for females) per 100,000 in Canada up to 213 (males, females 154) in the Russian Federation.
For other Western countries the rate is 31 - 55 (43 - 26). Approximately half the deaths
attributable to stroke are the result of medical complications, such as pneumonia and sepsis,
and half are attributable to neurological complications, such as new cerebral infarction and
cerebral edema. Brott, T. and Bogousslavsky, J., New Engl J Med. 343: 710 - 722 (2000).
(14114448 1):GGG

            Strokes are the third leading cause of death in developed countries and have a
    devastating impact on public health. About 700,000 new stroke cases occur in America every
                                                                                               of the
    year (American Stroke Association). About 25% of stroke sufferers die as a result
    stroke or its resulting complications.       Additionally, almost 50% of stroke victims have
 5  moderate to severe health impairments and long-term disabilities. Although the incidence of
    ischemic stroke has declined over the past 20 years, the mean age of the population has risen,
    resulting in a continual increase in the absolute number of strokes. Recent projections indicate
    that by the year 2050, more than I million strokes will occur each year in the United States.
     Strokes are generally the result of several underlying conditions that decrease the flow of blood
10  to the brain and cause disability or death. Approximately 85 percent of strokes are ischemic in
     nature (blood clot or blockage of a blood vessel). Foulkes MR, et al., Stroke; 19:547-54
     (1988). An ischemic stroke can be caused by a blood clot that forms inside the artery of the
     brain (thrombotic stroke), or by a clot that forms somewhere else in the body and travels to the
     brain (embolic stroke), with thrombotic strokes representing about 52% of all ischemic
15   strokes.   Thrombotic strokes are generally a result of atherosclerosis (where blood vessels
     become clogged with a buildup of fatty deposits, calcium, and blood clotting factors such as
     fibrinogen and cholesterol).
              Inflammation is a multifactorial process, and is manifest in many diseases, disorders,
      and conditions which have enormous cumulative health consequences. Inflammatory diseases,
 20   including rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, psoriasis, multiple sclerosis and asthma remain a major
      cause of mortality and morbidity worldwide. Autoimmune diseases are also associated with
      inflammation and on the rise, reportedly affecting more than 50 million people in the U.S. In
      many autoimmune diseases, cell, tissue, joint and organ damage results from the uncontrolled
      activation of a immense array of inflammatory pathways. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is one
 25   such chronic inflammatory disease characterized by inflammation of the joints, leading to
                                                        2

    swelling, pain, and loss of function. RA affects at least an estimated 2.5 million people in the
    United States, and is caused by a combination of events including an initial infection or injury,
    an abnormal immune response, and genetic factors.           Any one of at least 80 different
    autoimmune diseases can result when the immune system becomes unregulated and attacks
 5  healthy tissue.
             Connexins, also known as gap junction proteins, are four-pass transmembrane proteins
    with cytoplasmic C and N termini. Six connexins combine together to form a hemichannel
    called a "connexon."
             Gap junctions are structures that provide direct cell-to-cell communication. The gap
10  junction is composed of two connecting connexons, one contributed by each of the abutting
     cells that upon docking form a functional gap junction.
             As they are being translated by ribosomes, connexins are inserted into the membrane of
     the endoplasmic reticulum.       Bennett MV, Zukin RS. Electrical coupling and neuronal
     synchronization in the Mammalian brain. Neuron. 2004 Feb 19;41(4):495-511.           There they
15   gather to form hemichannels (connexons), which are carried to the cell membrane in vesicles
     and diffuse through the membrane until they meet a hemichannel from the other cell, with
     which they can dock to form a channel. Id. Molecules on a connexin allow it to "recognize"
     the other connexins in their hemichannel and those of the other cell's hemichannel, and cause
      correct alignment and formation of the channel.       Kandel ER, Schwartz JH, Jessell TM.
20   PrinciplesofNeural Science, 4th ed., pp.178-180. McGraw-Hill, New York (2000).
              Connexin proteins have a common transmembrane topology, with four alpha-helical
      transmembrane domains, two extracellular loops, a cytoplasmic loop, and cytoplasmic N- and
      C-terminal domains.      The sequences are most conserved in the transmembrane and
      extracellular domains, yet many of the key functional differences between connexins are
 25   determined by amino-acid differences in these largely conserved domains. Each extracellular
                                                     3

                                                                                                  for
    loop contains three cysteines with invariant spacing (save one isoform) that are required
    channel function. The junctional channel is composed of two end-to-end hemichannels, each
    of which is a hexamer of connexin subunits.       In junctional channels, the cysteines in the
    extracellular loops form intra-monomer disulfide bonds between the two loops, not
 5  intermonomer or inter-hemichannel bonds.        The end-to-end homophilic binding between
    hemichannels is via non-covalent interactions. Mutagenesis studies suggest that the docking
                                                                                         structure of
     region contains beta structures, and may resemble to some degree the beta-barrel
     porin channels.    The two hemichannels that compose a junctional channel are rotationally
                                                                                              of each
     staggered by approximately 30 degrees relative to each other so that the alpha-helices
10   connexin monomer are axially aligned with the alpha-helices of two adjacent monomers in the
      apposed hemichannel.
              Each connexon or hemichannel in the membrane should, under normal conditions,
      remain closed until it docks with a connexon of a neighboring cell. However, the inventors
      believe that when a cell expressing a hemichannel is subjected to a stress (e.g. physiological,
15    mechanical, etc.) hemichannels can open even when they are not docked. The inhibition of
      extracellular hemmichannel communication includes the inhibition of the flow of small
       molecules through an open hemichannel to and from an extracellular or periplamic space.
       While not intending to be bound by or limited to any mechanism, modes of action include
       blocking (partial or complete) of the hemichannel, triggering internalization of the connexon
 20    which is then removed from the membrane, inducing a conformational change in the connexin
                                                                                                      in
       proteins to bring about closure of the connexon, and masking or binding to sites involved
       triggering channel opening (such calcium binding sites).
               Antisense (AS) nucleotides to connexins and uses thereof have been described. See
       WOOO/44409 to Becker et al., filed January 27, 2000, "Formulations Comprising Antisense
 25    Nucleotides to Connexins."
                                                     4

                                            BRIEF SUMMARY
           The inventions described and claimed herein have many attributes and embodiments
   including, but not limited to, those set forth or described or referenced in this Brief Summary.
   The inventions described and claimed herein are not limited to, or by, the features or
 5 embodiments identified in this Summary, which is included for purposes of illustration only
   and not restriction.
            The inventions described and claimed herein relate to anti-connexin compounds,
    including polypeptides (e.g. mimetic peptides and peptiditomimetics, antibodies, and antibody
    fragments and synthetic constructs) and polynucleotides (e.g., antisense polynuclotides), for
10  modulation of connexins, hemichannels, and gap junctions in selected tissues, cells, and
    patients, for example, patients suffering from or at risk for cardiovascular conditions,
    inflammatory conditions, neurological conditions, vascular conditions, wounds and other
    conditions and disorders, and complications thereof.
            Anti-connexin compounds and compositions useful for the treatment of various
15   diseases, conditions and disorders in which modulation of connexins, hemichannels, and gap
    junctions would be of benefit, for example, cardiovascular, neurological, vascular, and other
     conditions or disorders, including wound treatmen, are provided. Also provided are methods
     of using these compounds and compositions as well as pharmaceutical formulations, kits, and
     medical devices, for example.
20           In one aspect, compounds, compositions, and methods for treating a subject with a
     vascular disorder are provided.     Such methods include administering to the subject an anti
      connexin compound, for example, an antisense compound, mimetic peptide, or other anti
      connexin compound, including those provided herein, capable of inhibiting the expression,
      formation, or activity of a connexin, hemichannel or gap junction.
                                                      5

           In another aspect, anti-connexin compounds, compositions, and methods for treating a
   subject with an inflammatory disorder are provided. Such methods include administering to
   the subject an antisense compound, mimetic peptide, or other anti-connexin compound,
   including those provided herein, capable of inhibiting the expression, formation, or activity of
 5 a connexin, hemichannel, or gap junction.
            In another aspect, anti-connexin compounds, compositions, and methods for treating a
    subject having a wound are provided. Such methods include administering to the subject an
    antisense compound, mimetic peptide, or other anti-connexin compound, including those
    provided herein, capable of inhibiting the expression, formation, action, or activity of a
10  connexin, hemichannel, or gap junction.
            In another aspect, anti-connexin compounds, compositions, and methods for treating a
    subject in connection with a transplant or grafting procedure are provided.      Such methods
    include administering to the subject an antisense compound, mimetic peptide, or other anti
    connexin compound, including those provided herein, capable of inhibiting the expression,
15  formation, action, or activity of a connexin hemichannel. Such methods are also capable of
    inhibiting and/or preventing tissue edema associated with transplant and grafting procedures.
             In another aspect, anti-connexin binding proteins, including mimetics peptides,
    antibodies, antibody fragments, and the like, are provided that are capable of binding or
    modulating the expression, formation, action, or activity of a connexin hemichannel. Binding
20  proteins are useful as modulators of gap junctions and hemichannels.
             In certain non-limiting embodiments, the anti-connexin compound comprises a peptide
     comprising an amino acid sequence corresponding to a transmembrane region of a connexin.
     Such connexins include, for example, connexins 45, 43, 26, 30, 31.1, and 37.           Human
     connexins are a preferred species.
                                                    6

             In a non-limiting but preferred embodiment, an anti-connexin compound comprises a
    peptide comprising an amino acid sequence corresponding to a portion of a transmembrane
    region of a connexin 45.        In particular non-limiting embodiments, for example, the anti
    connexin compound is a peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises about 3 to
 5  about 30 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62, a peptide having an amino acid sequence
    that comprises about 5 to about 20 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62, a peptide having
     an amino acid sequence that comprises about 8 to about 15 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID
     NO:62, or a peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises about 11, 12, or 13
     contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62. Other non-limiting embodiments include an anti
10   connexin compound that is a peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises at least
     about 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 25, or 30 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID
     NO:62.      In certain anti-connexin compounds provided herein, mimetic peptides are based on
     the extracellular domains of connexin 45 corresponding to the amino acids at positions 46-75
     and 199-228 of SEQ ID NO: 62. Thus, certain peptide described herein have an amino acid
15    sequence corresponding to the regions at positions 46-75 and 199-228 of SEQ ID NO: 62. The
      peptides need not have an amino acid sequence identical to those portions of SEQ ID NO: 62,
      and conservative amino acid changes may be made such that the peptides retain binding
      activity or functional activity in the assays described herein and otherwise known in the art. In
      other embodiments, mimetic peptides are based on peptide target regions within the connexin
 20   protein other than the extracellular domains (e.g. portions of SEQ ID NO:62 not corresponding
      to positions 46-75 and 199-228).
               In another non-limiting but preferred embodiment, an anti-connexin compound
      comprises a peptide comprising an amino acid sequence corresponding to a portion of a
      transmembrane region of a connexin 43. In particular non-limiting embodiments, the anti
 25    connexin compound is a peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises a peptide
                                                         7

   having an amino acid sequence that comprises about 3 to about 30 contiguous amino acids of
   SEQ ID NO:63, about 5 to about 20 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:63, a peptide
   having an amino acid sequence that comprises about 8 to about 15 contiguous amino acids of
   SEQ ID NO:63, or a peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises about 11, 12, or 13
 5 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:63. Other non-limiting embodiments include an anti
   connexin compound that is a peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises at least
    about 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 25, or 30 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID
   NO:63. In other anti-connexin compounds, mimetic peptides are based on the extracellular
    domains of connexin 43 corresponding to the amino acids at positions 37-76 and 178-208 of
10  SEQ ID NO: 63.        Thus, certain peptides described herein have an amino acid sequence
    corresponding to the regions at positions 37-76 and 178-208 of SEQ ID NO: 63. The peptides
    need not have an amino acid sequence identical to those portions of SEQ ID NO: 63, and
    conservative amino acid changes may be made such that the peptides retain binding activity or
    functional activity in the assays described herein and otherwise known in the art. In other
15  embodiments, mimetic peptides are based on peptide target regions within the connexin
    protein other than the extracellular domains (e.g. the portions of SEQ ID NO:63 not
     corresponding to positions 37-76 and 178-208).
            Other particular compounds, methods of making these compounds, and methods of
     measuring their activity are described in greater detail herein.
20          Alternatively, anti-connexin compounds, including those provided and used in certain
     embodiments, comprise one or more antisense compounds.           Suitable antisense compounds
     may be selected, for example, from the group consisting of antisense oligonucleotides,
     antisense polynucleotides, deoxyribozymes, morpholino oligonucleotides, RNAi molecules,
     siRNA molecules, PNA molecules, DNAzymes, and 5'-end-mutated UI small nuclear RNAs,
                                                      8

    and analogs of the preceding.       These and other compounds may be used alone or in
    combination with one more mimetic or other binding peptides.
             An anti-connexin compound such as an antisense compound or mimetic peptide may
    be targeted, for example, towards one or more of connexins 45, 43, 26, 37, 30 and/or 31.1. In
 5  certain non-limiting but preferred embodiments, an antisense compound or mimetic peptide is
    targeted towards connexin 45 or connexin 43.           In certain non-limiting but preferred
    embodiments, an anti-connexin compound such as an antisense compound targeted to at least
     about 8 nucleobases of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a connexin having a nucleobase
     sequence selected from SEQ ID NO:12-31.          An antisense compound may comprise, for
10   example, an antisense compound targeted to at least about 12 nucleobases of a nucleic acid
     molecule encoding a connexin having a nucleobase sequence selected from SEQ ID NO: 12-31.
     In certain other embodiments, an antisense compound comprises a nucleobase sequence
     selected from SEQ ID NO:1-11.        An antisense compound may comprise, for example, an
     antisense oligonucleotide of between about 15 and about 35 nucleobases in length, for example
15   about 25-30 or about 30.
              An antisense compound may comprise, for example, an antisense oligonucleotide
      comprising naturally occurring nucleobases and an unmodified internucleoside linkage (e.g. at
      least one modified internucleoside linkage).      The modified internucleoside linkage may
      comprise a phosphorothioate linkage. Other antisense compounds may, for example, comprise
20    an oligonucleotides having at least one modified sugar moiety.         Still other antisense
      compounds may, for example, comprise oligonucleotides having at least one modified
      nucleobase.
               In certain embodiments, an anti-connexin compound such as an antisense compound or
      mimetic peptide may be used in combination with a second compound useful for reducing
 25    tissue damage or promoting healing. The second compound, for example, may be a growth
                                                     9

    factor or a cytokine or the like. Suitable coadministration compounds include, for example,
    FGF, NGF, NT3, PDGF, TGF, VEGF, BDGF, EGF, KGF, integrins, interleukins, plasmin, and
    semaphorins. For human therapy, such coadministration compounds as those listed above are
    human or of human origin.
 5            Methods of administering anti-connexin compounds to a subject, target organ, target
    tissue, or target cell are provided in which hemichannel modulation would be of benefit.
              Methods of administering anti-connexin compounds to a subject, target organ, target
     tissue, or target cell are provided. Thus, in certain non-limiting embodiments a subject is
     treated by administration of an anti-connexin compound that is capable of binding to or
10   modulating a hemichannel for one or more of the following: cardiovascular diseaase, coronary
     heart disease, heart failure, myocardial infarction, atherosclerosis, ischemic heart disease,
      cardioplegic or other organ transport or storage medium, reperfusion injury, respiratory or
      metabolic acidosis, pulmonary edema (including exposure to toxic gases such as nitrogen
      dioxide), vascular pathophysiology whereby endothelial cells are disrupted (such as diet
15    induced hypercholestrolemic lesions), vascular disorders (microvascular and macrovascular),
      stroke, cerebrovascular disease (cerebral ischemia), thromboses, vascular injuries resulting
      from trauma (e.g. subcutaneous wounds, stent insertion, restenosis, or angioplasty), vascular
      damage resulting        from elevated levels of glucose (diabetes), vascular diseases of the
      extremities, organ ischemia, optic neuropathies, inflammation, and rheumatoid arthritis (RA),
20    sub-chronic or chronic inflammation, epilepsy (epileptic events and lesions spread following
       epileptic events), diabetic retinopathy, macular degeneration, and certain other indications
       described in greater detail in Harrison's, Principles of Internal Medicine 15 th Edition (McGraw
       Hill, Inc., New York), incorporated by reference herein.
                In certain other non-limiting embodiments a subject is treated by administration of an
 25    anti-connexin compound that is capable of binding to or otherwise modulating a hemichannel
                                                        10

    for one or more of the following, for example: (1) prevention or treatment of oedema in the
    spinal cord following or as a result of, for example, ischaemia or trauma; (2) prevention or
    treatment of blood vessel wall degradation in tissues following or as a result of, for example,
    ischaemia or trauma (e.g. in brain, optic nerve, spinal cord and heart); (3) prevention or
 5  treatment of inflammatory arthritis and other inflammatory disorders in which, for example,
    oedema and/or inflammation are symptomatic, or in which, by way of example, blood vessel
     die back occurs as a result of, for example, persistent inflammation; (4) prevention or
     treatment of sub-acute or chronic wounds, for example, wounds to the cornea of the eye in
     which, by way of example, prevention of blood vessel die back allows recovery from limbal
10   ischaemia; (5) prevention or treatment of sub-acute or chronic wounds, for example, wounds
     to the cornea of the eye as a means, by way of example, to trigger re-epithelialisation; (6)
     treatment of burns, for example, chemical burns in the eye in order, by way of example, to
     trigger epithelial recovery and to bring about recovery from sub-acute limbal ischaemia; (7)
      prevention or treatment of sub-acute or chronic skin wounds, including, for example, diabetic
15    ulcers, in which, by way of example, prevention of continued blood vessel die back will allow
      recovery from tissue ischaemia; (8) treatment of chronic wounds, including, for example,
      diabetic ulcers in which, by way of example, continued expression of connexin 43, for
      example at the leading edge, prevents re-epithelialisation; (9) prevention or treatment of
      perinatal ischaemia using connexin mimetic peptides, which may, for example, be delivered
20     directly to ventricles of the brain or via spinal column and/or spinal cord; (10) inhibition or
       prevention of oedema following perinatal ischaemia using connexin mimetic peptides
       delivered, for example, directly to ventricles of the brain or via spinal column and/or spinal
       cord; (11) treatment for perinatal ischaemia using connexin mimetic peptides delivered
       systemically, for example; (12) treatment for stroke or CNS ischaemia using connexin mimetic
 25    peptides delivered, for example, systemically and/or directly to ventricles of the brain or via
                                                       11

    spinal column and/or spinal cord; (13) prevention of epileptiform activity (e.g. epilepsy) in the
    brain, including epileptiform activity following ischaemia; and/or, (14) prevention of lesion
    spread, oedema (and rejection) with reperfusion following organ transplantation.            Anti
    connexin compounds capable of binding or modulating connexins and gap junctions for the
 5  prevention and/or treatment of such methods and indications are provided.
            An anti-connexin compound may be administered at various predetermined times.
            In certain non-limiting embodiments, a connexin hemichannel activity, action,
    expression or formation is inhibited in endothelial cells.
             In certain non-limiting embodiments, a connexin hemichannel activity, action,
10  expression or formation is inhibited in epithelial cells.
             In certain non-limiting embodiments, a subject may be treated for a vascular disorder
     comprising a stroke.
             In certain non-limiting embodiments, a subject may be treated for a vascular disorder
     comprising an ischemia.        Such an ischemia may be, for example, a tissue ischemia, a
15   myocardial ischemia, or a cerebral ischemia.
              In certain non-limiting embodiments, a subject treated herein is at risk of loss of
     neurological function by ischemia.
              In certain non-limiting embodiments, a subject may be treated for a vascular disorder
     comprising treating or ameliorating cell death or degeneration in the central or peripheral
20   nervous system that may be caused by an ischemia.
               In certain non-limiting embodiments, a subject may treated for a vascular disorder
      wherein an anti-connexin compound, for example, an antisense compound, mimetic peptide, or
      other binding peptide is administered in connection with a vascular or coronary procedure
      performed on a subject. In other non-limiting embodiments, an anti-connexin compound, for
 25   example, an antisense compound, mimetic peptide, or other binding peptide is administered
                                                      12

   during said vascular or coronary procedure.        The anti-connexin compound may also be
   administered before or after a vascular or coronary procedure, or both.
            In certain non-limiting embodiments, an anti-connexin compound, including an
   antisense compound, mimetic peptide, or other binding peptide is administered within about 1
 5 hour after a vascular or coronary procedure is performed, or, for example, within about 2 hours
   after a vascular or coronary procedure is performed. In other embodiments, the anti-connexin
   compound is administered within about 24 hours. Anti-connexin compounds may also be
   administered outside these timeframes, as desired or necessary.
            In certain embodiments,       an anti-connexin    compound, including an antisense
10  compound, mimetic peptide, or other binding peptide is administered in connection with a
    heart procedure, such as heart surgery, performed on a patient.
             In certain other embodiments, an anti-connexin compound, including an antisense
    compound, mimetic peptide, or other binding peptide is administered in connection with a
    medical device for performing a vascular or other procedure.
15           In another aspect, a pharmaceutical formulation for administration to a subject is
    provided, the formulation comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and an agent
    capable of modulating a connexin hemichannel and subsequent connexon formation, such as,
    for example, by blocking or ameliorating hemichannel expression, formation, action, and/or
    activity.
20                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
              Figure 1 shows rat spinal cord segments 24 hours after placing into organotypic
     culture. In the control cord (Figure 1A) significant swelling is observed at the cut ends (dotted
     lines mark the original cuts). The connexin 43 specific antisense ODN treated segment (Figure
     1B) shows little swelling or oedema.
                                                     13

              Figure 2 shows coomassie Blue staining of resin sections of control spinal cord after
    24 hours in organotypic culture. The neurons are vacuolated and oedematous with "blebbing"
    evident along the membrane where hemichannels are opening and allowing extracellular fluids
    to enter the cell (arrows).
 5            Figure 3 shows immunohistochemical labeling of connexin 43 using antibodies which
    bind to the extracellular loop (Gap7M antibodies shown in green in Figure 3A) and to the
    cytoplasmic carboxyl tail of the protein (shown in red in Figure 3A). The cytoplasmic antibody
     labels all connexin 43 proteins (red), and the Gap7M can only label exposed extracellular
     loops of hemichannels (green), as it is sterically hindered from binding to docked connexons
10   which are forming intact channels between cells. Figure 3B shows dual labeling with the two
     antibodies in spinal cord 24 hours after a crush wound. Most of the label appears yellow where
     the two antibodies colocalise indicating that a significant portion of the protein present has not
     docked with neighboring cells connexons and remains as hemichannels. Connexin 43 specific
     antisense ODNs prevent protein translation and few hemichannels are seen in treated cords
15    (Figure 3C).
               Figure 4 shows Isolectin B4 labeling of a tissue slice from a spinal cord which had
      been in organotypic culture for five days. The lectin binds to both microglial and blood vessel
      endothelial cells. The capillary vessels in this connexin 43 specific antisense ODN treated
      segment remain intact after five days (arrows). In control cords few vessels remain fully intact
20    after two days; by five days the pedominant labeling in controls is of activated macrophage
      phenotype glial cells.
               Figure 5 shows sections of spinal cord tissue 5mm rostral to a crush wound. Four
       hours after crushing the cord, FITC tagged BSA was injected into the animal tail vein, and the
       tissue then removed and sectioned. In the control cord (Figure 5A) the dye has leaked out
 25    extensively from the blood vessels, up to 5 mm from the injury site, indicating rupture of blood
                                                      14

    capillary vessel walls and disruption of the blood brain barrier. In the connexin 43 specific
    antisense ODN treated cord (Figure 5B) there is very little dye that is not contained within
    capillaries indicating vessel integrity has been retained.
             Figure 6 shows triple labeling of sheep heart tissue in the sheep heart ventricle wall
 5  adjacent to ischemic infarct tissue 24 hours after infarction, and within the infarct. The tissue is
    labeled with Isolection B4 showing the blood vessel endothelial cells (blue), with antibodies to
    connexin 43 (red) and with antibodies to Gap7M (green). The Gap7M antibodies recognize
    conserved extracellular loop regions of the connexin proteins (not connexin isoform specific),
    but do mark hemichannels (they are sterically hindered from accessing their epitope in intact
10   channels). Figure 6A shows a set of four images from tissue distant from the infarcted region
     showing Isolection B4 label of capillaries (blue - top left) and connexin 43 gap junctions in the
     intercalated discs of myocytes (lower left - red).        There is virtually no GAP7M label of
     hemichannels (top right - green). The bottom right image is a merge of the other three. The
     blood vessels remain intact and there is no sign of damage to the myocytes themselves. In
15   Figure 6B a region still away from but closer to the infarct is shown. The same three labels
     and merged image are shown in this 4-part panel. Most of the vessels are still intact but the
     vessel walls are disrupted in areas. In these areas hemichannel label colocalises with the
     ruptured vessel walls. The last panel of four images (Figure 6C) is within the infarcted area
     itself. Few capillaries remain intact apparently following extensive hemichannel expression.
20   The connexin 43 label is becoming dispersed and no longer contained in intercalated discs
      indicating that the myocytes have now become severely damaged. In all cases, the Gap7M
      antibody label does not colocalise with the connexin 43 label (as it does in the spinal cord),
      indicating they are a different gap junction protein isoform, most likely connexin 45.
              Figure 7 shows colocalisation of Isolectin B4 (green) marking capillary endothelial
 25   cells and myomesin antibody labeling (red) marking M lines in the sacromeres of the myocytes
                                                       15

    in an infarct 24 hours after ischemia. This region is the same as that shown in Figure 6.   The
    blood capillaries are completely disrupted and normal myocyte sarcomeric banding pattern has
    been destroyed indicating muscle cell death is occurring in parallel with vessel wall
    disintegration. The top image in the panel shows the Isolectin B4, the middle image the
 5  myomesin labeling, and the lower image is a merger of those two.
             Figure 8 shows a bar graph representing the percentage swelling compared to total
    spinal cord segment areas. A control (media only) segment, segments treated with peptides
    VDCFLSRPTEKT (SEQ ID NO:35) and SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ ID NO:36) which were shown
     in the dye uptake experiments to block hemichannels (shown as peptides 4 and 5 respectively
10   in Figure 8), and a segment treated with peptide QQPGCENVCYDK(SEQ ID NO:39) which
     did not block hemichannels (shown as peptide 8 in Figure 8), are shown. The peptide
     SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ ID NO:36, peptide 5 in Figure 8), a superior blocker based upon
     histological studies, has been used at 5 different concentrations, the lowest of which was most
     effective in reducing oedema.
15            Figure 9 shows connexin hemichannel labelling in near-term fetal sheep brains from a
      sham control (left) and 24 h after 30 min. of cerebral ischaemia (right) using an antibody
      recognising the extracellular loop regions of connexin proteins. In the control brain, no
      connexin hemichannel labelling is observed, whereas after ischaemia there is extensive
      upregulation of hemichannels.     Hemichannel expression is especially high on cell bodies
20    (horizontal arrows) and in blood vessel endothelial cells (vertical arrows). The major connexin
      upregulated after ischaemia is connexin 43.
              Figure 10 shows examples of artificial CSF i.c.v. infusion or peptide infusion starting
       90 min after a 30 min episode of cerebral ischaemia in near-term fetal sheep. The infusion in
       these animals was continued until 72 h after ischaemia. The vehicle (artificial CSF) infusion
 25    animal (left) shows delayed onset of severe, continuous seizures (status epilepticus; an
                                                      16

   example is shown in the insert box, top), followed by a progressive rise in cortical impedance
   (bottom, a measure of cell swelling) maximal at 48 h. Seizures resolved by approximately 48
   h. The peptidomimetic infusion (right) changed seizures from continuous to a later onset of
   discrete, separate seizure events. There was a markedly delayed and attenuated rise in cerebral
 5 impedance.
             Figure 11 shows dose-response curves for optic nerve (Figure 1 1A) tissue swelling and
                                                                                                         43
    (Figure 1 IB) cell death in control, and with 2.5, 5 and 1ORM concentrations of connexin
    specific AS-ODN. Both parameters exhibit a decreasing trend with increasing concentration.
    At lOM, swelling of the tissue is reduced as early as 6h post treatment, and by 69% at 24h
10  when compared to control. Cell death at both front and middle segment of the optic nerve is
    diminished with antisense treatments.
             Figure 12 shows the percentage of swelling in control and AS-ODN treated optic
     nerves (n=6 for all time points). Oedema is more prominent in the control tissue and the
     difference is statistically significant at all time points investigated. Asterisks indicate statistical
15   significance between the two groups.
             Figure 13: (Top panel) Propidium iodide staining of dead cells in the middle of control
     (A, B, C) and AS-ODN treated (D, E, F) optic nerve segments at 2, 6 and 24 hours after
     ischaemic induction. Little staining is exhibited by the connexin 43 specific AS-ODN treated
     group when compared to the controls at all three time points (Lower panel). Line graph
20   showing the number of dead cells per unit area in the medial region of the nerve for the control
     and AS-ODN treated optic nerves. Cell death in the control group initially increases, peaks at
      six hours and then declines (believed to reflect tissue oedema leaving fewer cells per unit
      area). Only a very slight increase in cell death even after 24 hours in culture was noted for AS
      ODN treated tissue. Asterisks indicate statistical significance between treatments.
                                                          17

            Figure 14 shows mean blood vessel segment length in control (green) and conenxin43
    specific antisense treated optic nerves (blue). At all time points the antisense treated nerves
    have longer segments indicated less vessel breakdown as a result of connexin expression,
    presumably in the form of hemichannels, or via a gap junction mediated bystander effect.
 5           All colors referenced herein are represented on a grey-scale in the corresponding black
    and-white figures.
                                         DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             Practice of the present inventions may include or employ various conventional
    techniques of molecular biology (including recombinant techniques), microbiology, cell
10  biology, biochemistry, nucleic acid chemistry, and immunology, which are within the skill of
    the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature, and include but are not limited to,
     by way of example only, Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, second edition (Sambrook
     et al., 1989) and Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, third edition (Sambrook and
     Russel, 2001), jointly and individually referred to herein as "Sambrook"; Oligonucleotide
15   Synthesis (M. J. Gait, ed., 1984); Animal Cell Culture (R. I. Freshney, ed., 1987); Handbook
     of Experimental Immunology (D. M. Weir & C. C. Blackwell, eds.); Gene Transfer Vectors
     for Mammalian Cells (J. M. Miller & M. P. Calos, eds., 1987); Current Protocols in Molecular
     Biology (F. M. Ausubel et al., eds., 1987, including supplements through 2001); PCR: The
     Polymerase Chain Reaction, (Mullis et al., eds., 1994); Current Protocols in Immunology (J. E.
20    Coligan et al., eds., 1991); The Immunoassay Handbook (D. Wild, ed., Stockton Press NY,
      1994); Bioconjugate Techniques (Greg T. Hermanson, ed., Academic Press, 1996); Methods
      of Immunological Analysis (R. Masseyeff, W. H. Albert, and N. A. Staines, eds., Weinheim:
      VCH Verlags gesellschaft mbH, 1993), Harlow and Lane (1988) Antibodies, A Laboratory
      Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Publications, New York, and Harlow and Lane (1999) Using
 25   Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor,
                                                      18

    NY (jointly and individually referred to herein as Harlow and Lane), Beaucage et al. eds.,
    Current Protocols in Nucleic Acid Chemistry John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, 2000); and
    Agrawal, ed., Protocols for Oligonucleotides and Analogs, Synthesis and Properties Humana
    Press Inc., New Jersey, 1993).
 5  Definitions
            Before further describing the inventions in general and in terms of various nonlimiting
    specific embodiments, certain terms used in the context of the describing the invention are set
    forth. Unless indicated otherwise, the following terms have the following meanings when
    used herein and in the appended claims. Those terms that are not defined below or elsewhere
10  in the specification shall have their art-recognized meaning.
             Amino acids used in compounds provided herein (e.g. peptides and proteins) can be
    genetically encoded amino acids, naturally occurring non-genetically encoded amino acids, or
    synthetic amino acids. Both L-and D-enantiomers of any of the above can be utilized in the
    compounds.      The following abbreviations may be used herein for the following genetically
15   encoded amino acids (and residues thereof): alanine (Ala, A); arginine (Arg, R); asparagine
     (Asn, N); aspartic acid (Asp, D); cyteine (Cys, C); glycine (Gly, G); glutamic acid (Glu, E);
     glutamine (Gln,   Q); histidine (His, H); isoleucine (Ile, I); leucine (Leu, L); lysine (Lys, K);
     methionine (Met, M); phenylalanine (Phe, F); proline (Pro, P); serine (Ser, S); threonine (Thr,
     T); tryptophan (Trp, W); tyrosine (Tyr, Y); and valine (Val, V).
20           Certain commonly encountered amino acids that are not genetically encoded and that
     can be present in the compounds of the invention include, but are not limited to,    p-alanine (b
     Ala) and other omega-amino acids such as 3-aminopropionic acid (Dap), 2,3-diaminopropionic
      acid (Dpr, Z), 4-aminobutyric        acid and so forth; ax-aminoisobutyric       acid (Aib); 6
      aminohexanoic acid (Aha); 8-aminovaleric acid (Ava); methylglycine (MeGly); ornithine
 25   (Orn); citrulline (Cit); t-butylalanine (t-BuA); t-butylglycine (t-BuG); N-methylisoleucine
                                                       19

    (MeIle); phenylglycine (Phg); cyclohexylalanine (Cha); norleucine (Nle, J); 2-naphthylalanine
    (2-Nal);      4-chlorophenylalanine      (Phe(4-Cl));    2-fluorophenylalanine      (Phe(2-F));    3
    fluorophenylalanine       (Phe(3-F)); 4-fluorophenylalanine     (Phe(4-F)); penicillamine      (Pen);
    1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic        acid    (Tic);   beta.-2-thienylalanine     (Thi);
 5  methionine      sulfoxide    (MSO);    homoarginine     (hArg); N-acetyl     lysine   (AcLys);   2,3
    diaminobutyric       acid    (Dab);   2,3-diaminobutyric     acid  (Dbu);     p-aminophenylalanine
     (Phe(pNH 2)); N-methyl valine (MeVal); homocysteine (hCys);            3-benzothiazol-2-yl-alanine
     (BztAla, B); and homoserine (hSer), . Additional amino acid analogs contemplated include
     phosphoserine,        phosphothreonine,        phosphotyrosine,       hydroxyproline,       gamma
10   carboxyglutamate, hippuric acid, octahydroindole-2-carboxylic acid, statine, a-methyl-alanine,
     para-benzoyl-phenylalanine, propargylglycine, and sarcosine. Peptides that are encompassed
     within the scope of the invention can have any of the foregoing amino acids in the L- or D
     configuration, or any other amino acid described herein or known in the art, whether currently
      or in the future.
15             Amino acids that are substitutable for each other generally reside within similar classes
      or subclasses. As known to one of skill in the art, amino acids can be placed into different
      classes depending primarily upon the chemical and physical properties of the amino acid side
      chain. For example, some amino acids are generally considered to be hydrophilic or polar
      amino acids and others are considered to be hydrophobic or nonpolar amino acids. Polar
20    amino acids include amino acids having acidic, basic or hydrophilic side chains and nonpolar
      amino acids include amino acids having aromatic or hydrophobic side chains. Nonpolar amino
      acids may be further subdivided to include, among others, aliphatic amino acids.                 The
       definitions of the classes of amino acids as used herein are as follows:
                "Nonpolar Amino Acid" refers to an amino acid having a side chain that is uncharged
 25    at physiological pH, that is not polar and that is generally repelled by aqueous solution.
                                                        20

   Examples of genetically encoded hydrophobic amino acids include Ala, Ile, Leu, Met, Trp, Tyr
   and Val. Examples of non-genetically encoded nonpolar amino acids include t-BuA, Cha and
   Nle.
             "Aromatic Amino Acid" refers to a nonpolar amino acid having a side chain
 5 containing at least one ring having a conjugated ir-electron system (aromatic group). The
   aromatic group may be further substituted with substituent groups such as alkyl, alkenyl,
   alkynyl, hydroxyl, sulfonyl, nitro and amino groups, as well as others. Examples of genetically
   encoded aromatic amino acids include phenylalanine, tyrosine and tryptophan. Commonly
   encountered non-genetically       encoded aromatic amino acids include phenylglycine,         2
10 naphthylalanine,          p-2-thienylalanine,        3-benzothiazol-2-yl-alanine,       1,2,3,4
   tetrahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic     acid, 4-chlorophenylalanine, 2-fluorophenylalanine,   3
    fluorophenylalanine and 4-fluorophenylalanine.
              "Aliphatic Amino Acid" refers to a nonpolar amino acid having a saturated or
    unsaturated straight chain, branched or cyclic hydrocarbon side chain. Examples of genetically
15  encoded aliphatic amino acids include Ala, Leu, Val and Ile.         Examples of non-encoded
    aliphatic amino acids include Nle.
              "Polar Amino Acid" refers to a hydrophilic amino acid having a side chain that is
    charged or uncharged at physiological pH and that has a bond in which the pair of electrons
     shared in common by two atoms is held more closely by one of the atoms. Polar amino acids
20   are generally hydrophilic, meaning that they have an amino acid having a side chain that is
     attracted by aqueous solution. Examples of genetically encoded polar amino acids include
     asparagine, cysteine, glutamine, lysine and serine. Examples of non-genetically encoded polar
     amino acids include citrulline, homocysteine, N-acetyl lysine and methionine sulfoxide.
               "Acidic Amino Acid" refers to a hydrophilic amino acid having a side chain pK value
25   of less than 7.     Acidic amino acids typically have negatively charged side chains at
                                                     21

   physiological pH due to loss of a hydrogen ion. Examples of genetically encoded acidic amino
   acids include aspartic acid (aspartate) and glutamic acid (glutamate).
             "Basic Amino Acid" refers to a hydrophilic amino acid having a side chain pK value
   of greater than 7.      Basic amino acids typically have positively charged side chains at
 5 physiological pH due to association with hydronium ion. Examples of genetically encoded
   basic amino acids include arginine, lysine and histidine. Examples of non-genetically encoded
   basic amino acids include ornithine, 2,3-diaminopropionic acid, 2,4-diaminobutyric acid and
   homoarginine.
             "Ionizable Amino Acid" refers to an amino acid that can be charged at a physiological
10  pH. Such ionizable amino acids include acidic and basic amino acids, for example, D-aspartic
    acid, D-glutamic acid, D-histidine, D-arginine, D-lysine, D-hydroxylysine, D-ornithine, L
    aspartic acid, L-glutamic acid, L-histidine, L-arginine, L-lysine, L-hydroxylysine or L-ornithine.
             As will be appreciated by those having skill in the art, the above classifications are not
    absolute. Several amino acids exhibit more than one characteristic property, and can therefore
15  be included in more than one category. For example, tyrosine has both a nonpolar aromatic
    ring and a polar hydroxyl group.       Thus, tyrosine has several characteristics that could be
    described as nonpolar, aromatic and polar. However, the nonpolar ring is dominant and so
    tyrosine is generally considered to be nonpolar. Similarly, in addition to being able to form
    disulfide linkages, cysteine also has nonpolar character. Thus, while not strictly classified as a
20  hydrophobic or nonpolar amino acid, in many instances cysteine can be used to confer
     hydrophobicity or nonpolarity to a peptide.
             In some embodiments, polar amino acids contemplated by the present invention
     include, for example, arginine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine,
     histidine, homocysteine, lysine, hydroxylysine, ornithine, serine, threonine, and structurally
                                                      22

    related amino acids. In one embodiment the polar amino is an ionizable amino acid such as
    arginine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, histidine, hydroxylysine, lysine, or ornithine.
              Examples of polar or nonpolar amino acid residues that can be utilized include, for
    example, alanine, valine, leucine, methionine, isoleucine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, tyrosine
 5  and the like.
              "Anti-connexin compounds" include those compounds that affect or modulate the
     activity, expression or formation of a connexin, a connexin hemichannel (connexon), or a gap
    junction.     Anti-connexin compounds include without limitation antisense compounds (e.g.
     antisense polynucleotides), antibodies and binding fragments thereof, and peptides and
10   polypeptides which include "peptidomimetic" and "mimetic" peptides.
               "Antisense compounds" include different types of molecules that act to inhibit gene
     expression, translation, or function, including those that act by sequence-specific targeting of
     mRNAs for therapeutic         applications.     Antisense compounds include antisense DNA
     compounds and antisense RNA compounds. While antisense oligonucleotides are a preferred
15   form of antisense compound, the present invention comprehends other oligomeric antisense
     compounds, including but not limited to oligonucleotide mimetics. The antisense compounds
      in accordance with this invention preferably comprise from about 8 to about 50 nucleobases
      (i.e. from about 8 to about 50 linked nucleosides). Particularly preferred antisense compounds
      are antisense oligonucleotides, even more preferably those comprising from about 12 to about
20    30 nucleobases. Antisense compounds include ribozymes, external guide sequence (EGS)
      oligonucleotides (oligozymes), and other short catalytic RNAs or catalytic oligonucleotides
      which hybridize to the target nucleic acid and modulate its expression. They also include
      phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides (S-ODNs).
                Antisense compounds thus include, for example, the major nucleic-acid based gene
 25    silencing     molecules    such    as,    for   example,    chemically      modified  antisense
                                                       23

   oligodeoxyribonucleic acids (UIJNs), ribozymes and siRNAs (Scherer, L. J. and Rossi, J. J.
   Nature Biotechnol. 21: 1457-1465 (2003). Antisense compounds may also include antisense
   molecules such as, for example, peptide nucleic acids (PNAs) (Braasch, D. A. and Corey, D.
   R., Biochemistry 41, 4503-4510 (2002)), morpholino phosphorodiamidates (Heasman, J., Dev.
 5 Biol., 243, 209-214 (2002), DNAzymes (Schubert, S. et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 31, 5982-5992
   (2003). Chakraborti, S. and Banerjea, A. C., Mol. Ther. 7, 817-826 (2003), Santoro, S. W.
   and Joyce, G. F. Proc.Natl Acad. Sci. USA 94, 4262-4266 (1997), and the recently developed
   5'-end-mutated Ul small nuclear RNAs (Fortes, P. et al., Proc. Natd. Acad. Sci. USA 100,
    8264-8269 (2003).
10          The term "antisense sequences" refers to polynucleotides having antisense compound
    activity and include, but are not limited to, sequences complementary or partially
    complementary or corresponding to, for example, to an RNA sequence. Antisense sequences
    thus include, for example, include nucleic acid sequences that bind to mRNA or portions
    thereof to block transcription of mRNA by ribosomes. Antisense methods are generally well
15  known in the art. See, for example, PCT publication W094/12633, and Nielsen et al., Science
     254:1497 (1991); Oligonucleotides and Analogues, A Practical Approach, edited by F.
     Eckstein, IRL Press at Oxford University Press (1991); Antisense Research and Applications
     (1993, CRC Press. Antisense sequences to chosen targets may or may not also result in non
     specific binding to non-target sequences.       Antisense sequences with minimal, no, or
20   nondetectable non-specific binding to non-target sequences are preferred.
             As used herein, "messenger RNA" includes not only the sequence information to
     encode a protein using the three letter genetic code, but also associated ribonucleotide
      sequences which form the 5'-untranslated region, the 3'-untranslated region, and the 5' cap
      region, as well as ribonucleotide sequences that form various secondary structures.
                                                   24

    Oligonucleotides may be formulated in accordance with this invention which are targeted
    wholly or in part to any of these sequences.
             In general, nucleic acids (including oligonucleotides) may be described as "DNA-like"
    (i.e., having 2'-deoxy sugars and, generally, T rather than U bases) or "RNA-like" (i.e., having
 5  2'-hydroxyl or 2'-modified sugars and, generally U rather than T bases). Nucleic acid helices
    can adopt more than one type of structure, most commonly the A- and B-forms. It is believed
    that, in general, oligonucleotides which have B-form-like structure are "DNA-like" and those
    which have A-form-like structure are "RNA-like
             The term "complementary" generally refers to the natural binding of polynucleotides by
10  base pairing, for example under permissive salt and temperature conditions. For example, the
     sequence "A-G-T" binds to the complementary sequence "T-C-A". Complementarity between
    two single-stranded molecules may be "partial", such that only some of the nucleic acids bind,
     or it may be "complete", such that total complementarity exists between the single stranded
     molecules.    The degree of complementarity between nucleic acid molecules has significant
15   effects on the efficiency and strength of the hybridization between them. "Hybridizable" and
     "complementary" are terms that are used to indicate a sufficient degree of complementarity
     such that binding, preferably stable binding sufficient to carry out an intended action, for
     example, occurs between the DNA or RNA target and the oligonucleotide. It is understood
     that an oligonucleotide need not be 100% complementary to its target nucleic acid sequence to
20   be hybridizable, and it is also understood that the binding may be target-specific, or may bind
     to other non-target molecules so long as the non-specific binding does not significantly or
     undesirably thwart the therapeutic or other objective. An oligonucleotide is used to interfere
     with the normal function of the target molecule to cause a loss or dimunition of activity, and it
      is preferred that there is a sufficient degree of complementarity to avoid non-specific or
 25   unwanted binding of the oligonucleotide to non-target sequences under conditions in which
                                                      25

    specific binding is desired, i.e., under physiological conditions in the case of in vivo assays or
    therapeutic treatment or, in the case of in vitro assays, under conditions in which the assays are
    conducted. Absolute complementarity is not required. Polynucleotides that have sufficient
    complementarity to form a duplex having a melting temperature of greater than 20'C, 30'C, or
 5   40'C under physiological conditions, are generally preferred.
              A "disorder" is any condition that would benefit from treatment with a molecule or
     composition of the invention, including those described or claimed herein.            This includes
     chronic and acute disorders or diseases including those pathological conditions that predispose
     the mammal to the disorder in question.
10            As used herein, "subject" refers to any animal classified as a mammal, including
     humans, domestic and farm animals, and zoo, sports, or pet animals, such as dogs, horses, cats,
     sheep, pigs, cows, etc. The preferred subject is a human.
              "Targeting" an oligonucleotide to a chosen nucleic acid target can be a multistep
     process. The process may begin with identifying a nucleic acid sequence whose function is to
15    be modulated. This may be, for example, a cellular gene (or mRNA made from the gene)
      whose expression is associated with a particular disease state. The targeting process may also
      include determination of a site or sites within the nucleic acid sequence for the oligonucleotide
      interaction to occur such that the desired effect, i.e., inhibition of protein expression,
      modulation of activity, etc., will result. Once a target site or sites have been identified,
20    antisense compounds (e.g., oligonucleotides) are chosen which are sufficiently or desirably
       complementary to the target, i.e., hybridize sufficiently and with an adequate or otherwise
       desired specificity, to give a desired activity. In the present invention, targets include nucleic
       acid molecules encoding one or more connexins.           The targeting process may also include
       determination of a site or sites for the antisense interaction to occur such that the desired effect
 25    will result. A preferred intragenic site, for example, is the region encompassing the translation
                                                        26

    initiation or termination codon of the open reading frame (ORF) of the gene. The translation
    initiation codon is typically 5'-AUG (in transcribed mRNA molecules; 5'-ATG in the
    corresponding DNA molecule), and may also referred to as the "AUG codon,"' the "start
    codon" or the "AUG start codon." A minority of genes have a translation initiation codon
 5  having the RNA sequence 5'-GUG, 5'-UUG or 5'-CUG, and 5'-AUA, 5'-ACG and 5'-CUG
    have been shown to function in vivo. Thus, the terms "translation initiation codon" and "start
    codon" can encompass many codon sequences, even though the initiator amino acid in each
     instance is typically methionine (in eukaryotes) or formylmethionine (in prokaryotes).        It is
     also known in the art that eukaryotic and prokaryotic genes may have two or more alternative
10   start codons, any one of which may be preferentially utilized for translation initiation in a
     particular cell type or tissue, or under a particular set of conditions.
              The term "oligonucleotide" includes an oligomer or polymer of nucleotide or
     nucleoside monomers consisting of naturally occurring bases, sugars and intersugar
      (backbone) linkages.       The term "oligonucleotide" also includes oligomers or polymers
15    comprising non-naturally occurring monomers, or portions thereof, which function similarly.
      Such modified or substituted oligonucleotides are often preferred over native forms because of
      properties such as, for example, enhanced cellular uptake, increased stability in the presence of
      nucleases, or enhanced target affinity. A number of nucleotide and nucleoside modifications
      have been shown to make the oligonucleotide into which they are incorporated more resistant
20    to nuclease digestion than the native oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN).        Nuclease resistance is
      routinely measured by incubating oligonucleotides with cellular extracts or isolated nuclease
       solutions and measuring the extent of intact oligonucleotide remaining over time, usually by
       gel electrophoresis.   Oligonucleotides, which have been modified to enhance their nuclease
       resistance, can survive intact for a longer time than unmodified oligonucleotides. A number of
 25    modifications have also been shown to increase binding (affinity) of the oligonucleotide to its
                                                         27

    target. Affinity of an oligonucleotide for its target is routinely determined, for example, by
    measuring the Tm (melting temperature) of an oligonucleotide/target pair, which is the
    temperature at which the oligonucleotide and target dissociate. Dissociation may be detected
     spectrophotometrically. The greater the Tm, the greater the affinity of the oligonucleotide has
 5   for the target.    In some cases, oligonucleotide modifications which enhance target-binding
     affinity are also able to enhance nuclease resistance.
              A "polynucleotide" means a plurality of nucleotides.       Thus, the terms "nucleotide
                     or    "nucleic   acid"    or    "polynucleotide"     or   "oligonculeotide"    or
     sequence"
     "oligodeoxynucleotide" all refer to a heteropolymer of nucleotides or the sequence of these
10   nucleotides. These phrases also refer to DNA or RNA of genomic or synthetic origin which
      may be single-stranded or double-stranded and may represent the sense or the antisense strand,
      to peptide nucleic acid (PNA) or to any DNA-like or RNA-like material.
              A polynucleotide that encodes a connexin, a connexin fragment, or a connexin variant
      includes a polynucleotide encoding: the mature form of the connexin found in nature (and
15    naturally occuring and species variants thereof); the mature form of the connexin found in
       nature and additional coding sequence, for example, a leader or signal sequence or a proprotein
       sequence (and naturally occuring and species variants thereof); either of the foregoing and non
       coding sequences (for example, introns or non-coding sequence 5' and/or 3' of the coding
       sequence for the mature form(s) of the polypeptide found in nature); fragments of the mature
 20    form(s) of the connexin found in nature; and, as noted, variants of the mature form(s) of the
       connexin found in nature. Thus, "connexin-encoding polynucleotide" and the like encompass
       polynucleotides that have only a coding sequence for a desired connexin, fragment, or variant,
       as well as polynucleotides that includes other nucleotides such as additional coding and/or
       non-coding sequences.
                                                       28

              In the context of the invention, messenger RNA includes not only the information to
    encode a protein using the three letter genetic code, but also associated ribonucleotides which
    form a region known to such persons as the 5'-untranslated region, the 3'-untranslated region,
    the 5' cap region and intron/exon junction ribonucleotides.           Thus, oligonucleotides may be
 5  formulated in accordance with the present invention that are targeted wholly or in part to these
    associated ribonucleotides as well as to the informational ribonucleotides. The oligonucleotide
    may therefore be specifically hybridizable with a transcription initiation site region, a
    translation initiation codon region, a 5' cap region, an intron/exon junction, coding sequences,
     a translation termination codon region or sequences in the 5'- or 3-untranslated region. A
10   minority of genes have a translation initiation codon having the RNA sequence 5'-GUG, 5'
     UUG or 5'-CUG, and 5'-AUA, 5'-ACG and 5'-CUG have been shown to function in vivo.
     Thus, the terms "translation initiation codon" and "start codon" can encompass many codon
     sequences, even though the initiator amino acid in each instance is typically methionine (in
     eukaryotes) or formylmethionine (prokaryotes). It is also known in the art that eukaryotic and
15   prokaryotic genes may have two or more alternative start codons, any one of which may be
     preferentially utilized for translation initiation in a particular cell type or tissue, or under a
     particular set of conditions. In the context of the invention, "start codon" and "translation
      initiation codon" refer to the codon or codons that are used in vivo to initiate translation of an
      mRNA molecule transcribed from a gene encoding connexin, regardless of the sequence(s) of
20    such codons. It is also known in the art that a translation termination codon (or "stop codon")
      of a gene may have one of three sequences, i.e., 5'-UAA, 5'-UAG and 5'-UGA (the
      corresponding DNA sequences are 5'-TAA, 5'-TAG and 5'-TGA, respectively). The terms
      "start codon region,". "AUG region" and "translation initiation codon region" refer to a portion
       of such an mRNA or gene that encompasses from about 25 to about 50 contiguous nucleotides
 25    in either direction (i.e., 5' or 3') from a translation initiation codon. This region is a preferred
                                                          29

    target region. Similarly, the terms "stop codon region" and "translation termination codon
    region" refer to a portion of such an mRNA or gene that encompasses from about 25 to about
    50 contiguous nucleotides in either direction (i.e., 5' or 3') from a translation termination
     codon. This region is a preferred target region. The open reading frame (ORF) or "coding
 5   region," which is known in the art to refer to the region between the translation initiation
     codon and the translation termination codon, is also a region which may be targeted
     effectively. Other preferred target regions include the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR), known
     in the art to refer to the portion of an mRNA in the 5' direction from the translation initiation
     codon, and thus including nucleotides between the 5' cap site and the translation initiation
10    codon of an mRNA or corresponding nucleotides on the gene and the 3' untranslated region
      (3'UTR), known in the art to refer to the portion of an mRNA in the 3' direction from the
      translation termination codon, and thus including nucleotides between the translation
      termination codon and 3' end of an mRNA or corresponding nucleotides on the gene. The 5'
      cap of an mRNA comprises an N7-methylated guanosine residue joined to the 5'-most residue
15    of the mRNA via a 5'-5' triphosphate linkage. The 5' cap region of an mRNA is considered to
       include the 5' cap structure itself as well as the first 50 nucleotides adjacent to the cap. The 5'
       cap region may also be a preferred target region.
                Although some eukaryotic mRNA transcripts are directly translated, many contain one
       or more regions, known as "intron." which are excised from a pre-mRNA transcript to yield
 20    one or more mature mRNA. The remaining (and therefore translated) regions are known as
       "exons" and are spliced together to form a continuous mRNA sequence. mRNA splice sites,
        i.e., exon-exon or intron-exon junctions, may also be preferred target regions, and are
        particularly useful in situations where aberrant splicing is implicated in disease, or where an
        overproduction of a particular mRNA splice product is implicated in disease. Aberrant fusion
 25    junctions due to rearrangements or deletions are also preferred targets. Targeting particular
                                                         30

   exons in alternatively spliced mRNAs may also be preferred. It has also been found that
   introns can also be effective, and therefore preferred, target regions for antisense compounds
   targeted, for example, to DNA or pre-mRNA.
            The terms "peptidomimetic" and "mimetic" include naturally occurring and synthetic
 5 chemical compounds that may have substantially the same structural and functional
   characteristics of protein regions which they mimic. For connexins these may mimic, for
   example, the extracellular loops of opposing connexins involved in connexon-connexon
    docking and cell-cell channel formation.
             Peptide analogs with properties analogous to those of the template peptide may be non
10  peptide drugs.     "Peptide mimetics" or "peptidomimetics," which include peptide-based
    compounds, also include such non-peptide based compounds (Fauchere, J Adv. Drug Res.
    15: 29 (1986); Veber and Freidinger; TINS; 392 (1985); and Evans et al., J. Med. Chem. 30:
    1229 (1987); Beeley N., Trends Biotechnol. Jun;12(6): 213-6 (1994); Kieber-Emmons T, et
    al.; Curr Opin Biotechnol. Aug; 8(4): 435-41 (1997). Peptide mimetics that are structurally
15  similar to therapeutically useful peptides may be used to produce an equivalent or enhanced
    therapeutic or prophylactic effect.    Generally, peptidomimetics are structurally identical or
    similar to a paradigm polypeptide (i.e., a polypeptide that has a biological or pharmacological
    function or activity), but can also have one or more peptide linkages optionally replaced by a
    linkage selected from the group consisting of, for example, -CH2NH-, -CH2S-, -CH2-CH2-,
20   CH=CH- (cis and trans), -COCH2-, -CH(OH)CH2-, and -CH2SO-. The mimetic can be either
     entirely composed of natural amino acids, or non-natural analogues of amino acids, or, is a
     chimeric molecule of partly natural peptide amino acids and partly non-natural analogs of
     amino acids. The mimetic can also comprise any amount of natural amino acid conservative
     substitutions as long as such substitutions also do not substantially alter mimetic activity. For
25   example, a mimetic composition is within the scope of the invention if it is capable of down
                                                     31

    regulating biological actions or activities of connexin proteins or connexons, such as, for
    example, preventing the docking of connexons to form gap-junction-mediated cell-cell
    communication, or preventing the opening connexons to expose the cell cytoplasm to the
    extracellular millieu. Peptidomimetics, mimetic peptides, and connexin modulating peptides
 5  encompass those described such peptidomimetics, mimetic peptides, and connexin modulating
    peptides set forth herein, as well as those as may be known in the art, whether now known or
     later developed.
             The term "composition" is intended to encompass a product comprising one or more
     ingredients.
10           The terms "modulator" and "modulation" of connexin activity, as used herein in its
     various forms, is intended to encompass inhibition in whole or in part of the expression or
     action or activity of a connexin. Such modulators include small molecules antagonists of
     connexin function or expression, antisense molecules, ribozymes, triplex molecules, and RNAi
     polynucleotides, gene therapy methods, etc., and others.
15            The phrase "percent (%) identity" refers to the percentage of sequence similarity found
      in a comparison of two or more sequences. Percent identity can be determined electronically
      using any suitable software, for example. Likewise, "similarity" between two sequences (or
      one or more portions of either or both of them) is determined by comparing the sequence of
      one sequence to a second sequence.
20            "Pharmaceutically acceptable" compounds and other ingredients of a composition or
       formulation, for example, a carrier, diluent or excipient, are those that are suitable for
       administration to a recipient thereof.
              In general, the term "protein" refers to any polymer of two or more individual amino
       acids (whether or not naturally occurring) linked via peptide bonds, as occur when the
 25    carboxyl carbon atom of the carboxylic acid group bonded to the alpha-carbon of one amino
                                                      32

    acid (or amino acid residue) becomes covalently bound to the amino nitrogen atom of the
    amino group bonded to the alpha-carbon of an adjacent amino acid. These peptide bond
    linkages, and the atoms comprising them (i.e., alpha-carbon atoms, carboxyl carbon atoms
    (and their substituent oxygen atoms), and amino nitrogen atoms (and their substituent
 5  hydrogen atoms)) form the "polypeptide backbone" of the protein. In addition, as used herein,
    the term "protein" is understood to include the terms "polypeptide" and "peptide" (which, at
    times, may be used interchangeably herein). Similarly, protein fragments, analogs, derivatives,
    and variants are may be referred to herein as "proteins," and shall be deemed to be a "protein"
    unless otherwise indicated.      The term "fragment" of a protein refers to a polypeptide
10   comprising fewer than all of the amino acid residues of the protein. A "domain" of a protein is
     also a fragment, and comprises the amino acid residues of the protein often required to confer
     activity or function.
              The term "stringent conditions" refers to conditions that permit hybridization between
     polynucleotides. Stringent conditions can be defined by salt concentration, the concentration
15   of organic solvent (for example, formamide), temperature, and other conditions well known in
     the art. Stringency can be increased by reducing the concentration of salt, increasing the
     concentration of organic solvents, (for example, formamide), or raising the hybridization
     temperature. For example, stringent salt concentration will ordinarily be less than about 750
      mM NaCl and 75 mM trisodium citrate, preferably less than about 500 mM NaCI and 50 mM
20    trisodium citrate, and most preferably less than about 250 mM NaCl and 25 mM trisodium
      citrate. Low stringency hybridization can be obtained in the absence of organic solvent, for
      example, formamide, while high stringency hybridization can be obtained in the presence of an
      organic solvent (for example, at least about 35% formamide, most preferably at least about
       50% formamide). Stringent temperature conditions will ordinarily include temperatures of at
                                                             0
 25    least about 30'C, more preferably of at least about 37 C, and most preferably of at least about
                                                      33

    42 0C. Varying additional parameters, for example, hybridization time, the concentration of
    detergent, for example, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), and the inclusion or exclusion of carrier
    DNA, are well known to those skilled in the art.             Various levels of stringency are
    accomplished by combining these various conditions as needed, and are within the skill in the
 5  art.   Stringent hybridization conditions may also be defined by conditions in a range from
    about 5'C to about 20'C or 25*C below the melting temperature (Tm) of the target sequence
    and a probe with exact or nearly exact complementarity to the target. As used herein, the
    melting temperature is the temperature at which a population of double-stranded nucleic acid
    molecules becomes half-dissociated into single strands. Methods for calculating the Tm of
10  nucleic acids are well known in the art (see, for example, Berger and Kimmel, Methods In
    Enzymology, Vol. 152: Guide To Molecular Cloning Techniques, San Diego (1987):
     Academic Press, Inc. and Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning (1989): A Laboratory Manual,
     2nd Ed., Vols. 1-3, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory). As indicated by standard references, a
     simple estimate of the Tm value may be calculated by the equation: Tm = 81.5 + 0.41(% G +
15   C), when a nucleic acid is in aqueous solution at 1 M NaCl (see for example, Anderson and
     Young, "Quantitative Filter Hybridization" in Nucleic Acid Hybridization (1985)).            The
     melting temperature of a hybrid (and thus the conditions for stringent hybridization) is affected
     by various factors such as the length and nature (DNA, RNA, base composition) of the probe
     and nature of the target (DNA, RNA, base composition, present in solution or immobilized,
 20   and the like), and the concentration of salts and other components (for example for example,
      the presence or absence of formamide, dextran sulfate, polyethylene glycol). The effects of
      these factors are well known and are discussed in standard references in the art, see for
      example, Sambrook, supra, and Ausubel, supra. Typically, stringent hybridization conditions
      are salt concentrations less than about 1.0 M sodium ion, typically about 0.01 to 1.0 M sodium
 25    ion at pH 7.0 to 8.3, and temperatures at least about 30'C for short probes (for example, 10 to
                                                       34

    50 nucleotides) and at least about 60'C for long probes (for example, greater than 50
    nucleotides).    As noted, stringent conditions may also be achieved with the addition of
    destabilizing agents such as formamide, in which case lower temperatures may be employed.
    In the present invention, the polynucleotide may be a polynucleotide which hybridizes to the
 5  connexin mRNA under conditions of medium to high stringency such as 0.03M sodium
    chloride and 0.03M sodium citrate at from about 50 to about 60 degrees centigrade.
             The term "therapeutically effective amount" means the amount of the subject
    compound that will elicit a desired response, for example, a biological or medical response of
     a tissue, system, animal or human that is sought, for example, by a researcher, veterinarian,
10   medical doctor, or other clinician.
             "Treatment" refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventive
     measures. Those in need of treatment include those already with the disorder as well as those
     in which the disorder is to be prevented.
              The term "vector" refers to a nucleic acid molecule amplification, replication, and/or
15   expression vehicle in the form of a plasmid, phage, viral, or other system (be it naturally
     occurring or synthetic) for the delivery of nucleic acids to cells where the plasmid, phage, or
     virus may be functional with bacterial, yeast, invertebrate, and/or mammalian host cells. The
      vector may remain independent of host cell genomic DNA or may integrate in whole or in part
      with the genomic DNA. The vector will generally but need not contain all necessary elements
20    so as to be functional in any host cell it is compatible with. An "expression vector" is a vector
      capable of directing the expression of an exogenous polynucleotide, for example, a
      polynucleotide encoding a binding domain fusion protein, under appropriate conditions.
              As described herein, the terms "homology and homologues" include polynucleotides
      that may be a homologue of sequence in connexin polynucleotide (e.g. mRNA).                  Such
 25   polynucleotides typically have at least about 70% homology, preferably at least about 80%,
                                                       35

   90%, 95%, 97% or 99% homology with the relevant sequence, for example over a region of at
   least about 15, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100 more contiguous nucleotides (of the homologous sequence).
            Homology may be calculated based on any method in the art.            For example the
   UWGCG Package provides the BESTFIT program which can be used to calculate homology
                                                                                                3
 5 (for example used on its default settings) (Devereux et al., Nucleic Acids Research 12, p 87
   395 (1984)). The PILEUP and BLAST algorithms can be used to calculate homology or line
   up sequences (typically on their default settings), for example as described in Altschul S. F. ; J
   Mol Evol 36: 290-300 (1993); Altschul, S. F. et al.; JMol Biol 215: 403-10 (1990). Software
   for performing BLAST analyses is publicly available through the National Center for
10 Biotechnology Information (http://www. ncbi. nlm. nih. gov/L). This algorithm involves first
    identifying high scoring sequence pair by identifying short words of length W in the query
    sequence that either match or satisfy some positive-valued threshold score T when aligned
    with a word of the same length in a database sequence. T is referred to as the neighborhood
    word score threshold (Altschul et al., supra). These initial neighborhood word hits act as seeds
15  for initiating searches to find HSPs containing them. The word hits are extended in both
    directions along each sequence for as far as the cumulative alignment score can be increased.
    Extensions for the word hits in each direction are halted when: the cumulative alignment score
     falls off by the quantity X from its maximum achieved value; the cumulative score goes to
     zero or below, due to the accumulation of one or more negative-scoring residue alignments; or
20   the end of either sequence is reached.       The BLAST algorithm parameters W, T and X
     determine the sensitivity and speed of the alignment. The BLAST program uses as defaults a
     word length (W) of 11, the BLOSUM62 scoring matrix (see Henikoff and Henikoff Proc. Natl.
     Acad. Sci. USA 89: 10915-10919 (1992)) alignments (B) of 50, expectation (E) of 10, M=5,
     N=4, and a comparison of both strands.
                                                     36

           The BLAST algorithm performs a statistical analysis of the similarity between two
   sequences; see e.g., Karlin and Altschul Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90: 5873-5787 (1993).
   One measure of similarity provided by the BLAST algorithm is the smallest sum probability (P
   (N)), which provides an indication of the probability by which a match between two nucleotide
 5 or amino acid sequences would occur by chance.         For example, a sequence is considered
   similar to another sequence if the smallest sum probability in comparison of the first sequence
   is less than about 1, preferably less than about 0.1, more preferably less than about 0.01, and
   most preferably less than about 0.001.
            The homologous sequence typically differs from the relevant sequence by at least (or
10 by no more than) about 1, 2, 5, 10, 15, 20 or more mutations (which may be substitutions,
    deletions or insertions).   These mutations may be measured across any of the regions
    mentioned above in relation to calculating homology. The homologous sequence typically
    hybridizes selectively to the original sequence at a level significantly above background.
    Selective hybridization is typically achieved using conditions of medium to high stringency
15  (for example 0.03M sodium chloride and 0.03M sodium citrate at from about 50 degrees C to
    about 60 degrees C). However, such hybridization may be carried out under any suitable
    conditions known in the art (see Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual
    (1989)). For example, if high stringency is required, suitable conditions include 0.2 x SSC at
     60 degrees C. If lower stringency is required, suitable conditions include 2 x SSC at 60
20   degrees C.
             A "cell" means any living cell suitable for the desired application.     Cells include
     eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells.
             The term "gene product" refers to an RNA molecule transcribed from a gene, or a
     polypeptide encoded by the gene or translated from the RNA.
                                                   37

             The term "recombinant" refers to a polynucleotide synthesized or otherwise
    manipulated in vitro (for example, "recombinant polynucleotide"), to methods of using
    recombinant polynucleotides to produce gene products in cells or other biological systems, or
    to a polypeptide ("recombinant protein") encoded by a recombinant polynucleotide. Thus, a
 5  "recombinant" polynucleotide is defined either by its method of production or its structure. In
    reference to its method of production, the process refers to use of recombinant nucleic acid
    techniques, for example, involving human intervention in the nucleotide sequence, typically
     selection or production.    Alternatively, it can be a polynucleotide made by generating a
     sequence comprising a fusion of two or more fragments that are not naturally contiguous to
10   each other. Thus, for example, products made by transforming cells with any non-naturally
     occurring vector is encompassed, as are polynucleotides comprising sequence derived using
     any synthetic oligonucleotide process.         Similarly, a "recombinant" polypeptide is one
     expressed from a recombinant polynucleotide.
              A "recombinant host cell" is a cell that contains a vector, for example, a cloning vector
15   or an expression vector, or a cell that has otherwise been manipulated by recombinant
     techniques to express a protein of interest.
              The connexin gene family is diverse, with 20 identified members in the sequenced
      human genome.       Different connexin gene products combine to form gap junctions with
      different properties, including pore conductance, size selectivity, charge selectivity, voltage
20    gating properties, and chemical gating properties, and are expressed in different tissues, and at
      different times of development or during disease processes. In recent literature, connexins are
      most commonly named according to their molecular weights, e.g. Cx26 is the connexin protein
      of 26 Kd.     This can lead to confusion when connexin genes from different species are
      compared, e.g. human Cx36 is homologous to zebrafish Cx35. As used herein, therefore, it is
 25   to be understood that reference to a particular connexin is a reference to all species variants
                                                       38

    thereof, even if their molecular weights are different.      Thus, for example, a reference to
    "connexin 43" means not only human connexin 43 but to the analogous connexin in each other
    species, no matter whether they are also 43Kd. Similarly, reference to a non-human "connexin
    43" is a reference to the connexin 43 analog or variant in that species. Thus, for example,
 5  reference to "horse connexin 43" is a reference to the relevant analog or variant of human
     connexin 43 in horse even if it does not have a 43Kd molecular weight.
     Compounds
             Compounds described herein are useful for ameliorating, treating, or preventing a
     variety of disorders and conditions, including but not limited to cardiovascular, inflammatory,
10   neurological, and vascular conditions, as well as wound treatment. The compounds are also
     useful in pharmaceutical compositions and in connection with medical devices and procedures,
     including, for example, surgeries, grafting procedures, and organ or tissue transplants. Certain
     preferred compounds described herein are capable of modulating or affecting the transport of
     molecules into and out of cells (e.g. blocking or inhibiting).      Thus certain anti-connexin
15   compounds described herein modulate cellular communication (e.g. cell to cell). Certain anti
      connexin compounds modulate or effect transmission of molecules between the cell cytoplasm
      and the periplasmic or extracellular space.       Such compounds are generally targeted to
      hemmichannels (connexons), because hemichannels are independently involved in the
      exchange of small molecules between the cell cytoplasm and an extracellular space or tissue.
20    Thus, a compound provided herein may directly or indirectly reduce coupling between cells or
      between a cell and an extracellular space or tissue, and the modulation of transport of
      molecules from a cell into an extracellular space is within the scope of certain compounds and
      embodiments of the invention.
              Any molecule that is capable of eliciting a desired inhibition of the passage (e.g.
 25   transport) of molecules through a gap junction or connexin hemichannel may be used in
                                                      39

    embodiments of the invention. Compounds that modulate the passage of molecules through a
    gap junction or connexin hemichannel are also provided in particular embodiments (e.g., those
    that modulate the passage of molecules from the cytoplasm of a cell into an extracellular
    space). Such compounds may modulate the passage of molecules through a gap junction or
 5  connexin hemichannel with or without gap junction uncoupling (blocking the transport of
    molecules through gap junctions).        Such compounds include, for example, proteins and
    polypeptides, polynucleotides, and any other organic compound, and they may, for example
    block the function or expression of a gap junction or a hemichannel in whole or in part. For a
     listing of some gap junction inhibitors, see for example Evans, W.H. and Boitano, S. Biochem.
10   Soc. Trans. 29: 606 - 612 (2001).
     Peptide and polypeptide connexin inhibitors
              Binding proteins, including peptides, peptide mimetics, antibodies, antibody fragments,
     and the like, etc., are suitable modulators of gap junctions and hemichannels and gap junction
     in certain embodiments.        Binding proteins include, for example, monoclonal antibodies,
15    polyclonal antibodies, antibody fragments (including, for example, Fab, F(ab') 2 and Fv
      fragments; single chain antibodies; single chain Fvs; and single chain binding molecules such
      as those comprising, for example, a binding domain, hinge, CH2 and CH3 domains, all as
      described in W002/056910 by Ledbetter et al. published July 25, 2002); recombinant
      antibodies and antibody fragments which are capable of binding an antigenic determinant (i.e.,
20    that portion of a molecule, generally referred to as an epitope) that makes contact with a
      particular antibody or other binding molecule. These binding proteins, including antibodies,
       antibody fragments, and so on, may be chimeric or humanized or otherwise made to be less
       immunogenic in the subject to whom they are to be administered, and may be synthesized,
       produced recombinantly, or produced in expression libraries. Any binding molecule known in
 25    the art or later discovered is envisioned, such as those referenced herein and/or described in
                                                       40

    greater detail in the art. See Harlow, E., and Lane, D., "Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual,"
    Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY, 349 (1988), incorporated by
    reference herein.    For example, binding proteins include not only antibodies, and the like, but
    also ligands, receptors, mimetic peptides, or other binding fragments or molecules (for
 5  example, produced by phage display) that bind to a target (e.g. connexin, hemichannel, or
    associated molecules).
             Binding molecules will generally have a desired specificity, including but not limited to
     binding specificity, and desired affinity. Affinity, for example, may be a Ka of greater than or
                                                                     1                           about
     equal to about 10 4 M- 1 , greater than or equal to about 106 M- , greater than or equal to
                                                                                                     1
     107 M- 1 , greater than or equal to about 10 M- . Affinities of even greater than about 108 M-
                                                       1
10
                                                                             1                 1
     are suitable, such as affinities equal to or greater than about 109 M- , about 1010 M- , about
     1011 M- 1 , and about 1012 M- .
                                        1   Affinities of binding proteins according to the present
     invention can be readily determined using conventional techniques, for example those
     described by Scatchard et al., 1949 Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 51: 660.
15            Peptide inhibitors (e.g., mimetic peptides) of gap junctions and hemichannels are
     preferred in certain embodiments provided herein. See for example Berthoud, V.M. et al., Am
     J Physiol. Lung Cell Mol. Physiol. 279: L619 - L622 (2000); Evans, W.H. and Boitano, S.
      Biochem. Soc. Trans. 29: 606 - 612, and De Vriese A.S., et al. Kidney Int. 61: 177 - 185
      (2001).
 20           By using data obtained from hydropathy plots, it has been proposed that a connexin
      contains four-transmembrane-spanning regions and two short extra-cellular loops. Paul DL. J
      Cell Biol 103: 123-134 (1996). The positioning of the first and second extracellular regions of
      connexin was further characterized by the reported production of anti-peptide antibodies used
       for immunolocalization of the corresponding epitopes on split gap junctions. Goodenough
 25    D.A. J Cell Biol 107: 1817-1824 (1988); Meyer R.A., J Cell Biol 119: 179-189 (1992).
                                                        41

             The extracellular domains of a hemichannel contributed by two adjacent cells "dock"
    with each other to form complete gap junction channels. Reagents that interfere with the
    interactions of these extracellular domains will impair cell-to-cell communication.          Short
    peptides corresponding to sequences within the extracellular loops of connexins were reported
 5  as inhibiters of intercellular communication. Boitano S. and Evans W. Am JPhysiolLung Cell
    Mol Physiol 279: L623-L630 (2000). The use of peptides as inhibitors of cell-cell channel
     formation produced by connexin (Cx) 32 expressed in paired Xenopus oocytes has been
     reported. Dahl G, et al., Biophys J 67: 1816-1822 (1994). Berthoud, V.M. and Seul, K.H.,
     summarized some of these results. Am J. Physiol. Lung Cell Mol. Physiol. 279: L619 - L622
                                                                                                    has
10   (2000). The modulation of hemichannel function by phosphorylation of a tyrosine residue
     been reported by Jensen et al. (US2004/0092429), the teachings of which do not encompass the
     anti-connexin compounds and methods provided herein.
               In another aspect, a anti-connexin compound comprises a peptide comprising an amino
      acid sequence corresponding to a transmembrane region (e.g.      1st to 4 th ) of a connexin (e.g.
15    connexin 45, 43, 26, 30, 31.1, and 37). In certain embodiments, the anti-connexin compound
                                                                                                       a
      comprises a peptide comprising an amino acid sequence corresponding to a portion of
      transmembrane region of a connexin 45. In certain embodiments, the anti-connexin compound
      is a peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises 5 to 20 contiguous amino acids of
      SEQ ID NO:62, a peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises 8 to 15 contiguous
 20   amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62, or a peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises 11
      to 13 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62. Other embodiments are directed to an anti
       connexin compound that is a peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises at least 5,
       6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 25, or 30 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62. In
       certain anti-connexin compounds provided herein, the extracellular domains of connexin 45
 25    corresponding to the amino acids at positions 46-75 and 199-228 of SEQ ID NO: 62 are used
                                                        42

    to develop the particular peptide sequences. Thus, certain peptide described herein have an
    amino acid sequence corresponding to the regions at positions 46-75 and 199-228 of SEQ ID
    NO: 62. The peptides need not have an amino acid sequence identical to those portions of
                                                                                    that the peptides
     SEQ ID NO: 62, and conservative amino acid changes may be made such
 5   retain binding activity or functional activity in the assays described herein and otherwise
     known in the art. In other embodiments, peptide target region of the connexin protein other
     than the extracellular domains (e.g. the portions of SEQ ID NO:62 not corresponding to
     positions 46-75 and 199-228).
               In other embodiments, the anti-connexin compound comprises a peptide comprising an
10    amino acid sequence corresponding to a portion of a transmembrane region of a connexin 43.
      In certain embodiments, the anti-connexin compound is a peptide having an amino acid
      sequence that comprises 5 to 20 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:63, a peptide having
      an amino acid sequence that comprises 8 to 15 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:63, or a
                                                                                       amino acids of
      peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises 11 to 13 contiguous
 15    SEQ ID NO:63.       Other embodiments are directed to an anti-connexin compound that is a
       peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises at least 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
       15, 20, 25, or 30 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:63.              In other anti-connexin
                                                                                               acids at
       compounds, the extracellular domains of connexin 43 corresponding to the amino
       positions 37-76 and 178-208 of SEQ ID NO: 63 are used to develop the particular peptide
 20    sequences. Thus, certain peptide described herein have an amino acid sequence corresponding
       to the regions at positions 37-76 and 178-208 of SEQ ID NO: 63. The peptides need not have
       an amino acid sequence identical to those portions of SEQ ID NO: 63, and conservative amino
        acid changes may be made such that the peptides retain binding activity or functional activity
        in the assays described herein and otherwise known in the art. In other embodiments, peptide
                                                      43

                                                                                                    of
    target region of the connexin protein other than the extracellular domains (e.g. the portions
    SEQ ID NO:63 not corresponding to positions 37-76 and 178-208).
             In certain non-limiting embodiments, the anti-connexin peptides comprise sequences
    corresponding to a portion of the connexin extracellular domains with conservative amino acid
 5   substitutions such that peptides are functionally active anti-connexin compounds. Exemplary
     conservative amino acid substitutions include for example the substitution of a nonpolar amino
     acid with another nonpolar amino acid, the substitution of an aromatic amino acid with another
     aromatic amino acid, the substitution of an aliphatic amino acid with another aliphatic amino
                                                                                                     of
     acid, the substitution of a polar amino acid with another polar amino acid, the substitution
10   an acidic amino acid with another acidic amino acid, the substitution of a basic amino acid
     with another basic amino acid, and the substitution of an ionizable amino acid with another
     ionizable amino acid.
              Exemplary peptides targeted to connexin 43 are shown below in Table 1. Ml, 2, 3 and
      4 refer to the 1stto 4 th transmembrane regions of the connexin 43 protein respectively. E2 refer
15    to the first and second extracellular loops respectively.
                    Table 1. Peptidic Inhibitors of Intercellular Communication (cx43)
      FEVAFLLIQWI                M3 & E2                                                   (SEQ ID NO:32)
      LLIQWYIGFSL                E2                                                        (SEQ ID NO:33)
      SLSAVYTCKRDPCPHQ           E2                                                        (SEQ ID NO:34)
20    VDCFLSRPTEKT               E2                                                        (SEQ ID NO:35)
       SRPTEKTIFII               E2 & M4                                                   (SEQ ID NO:36)
      LGTAVESAWGDEQ              Ml& El                                                    (SEQ ID NO:37)
       QSAFRCNTQQPG              El                                                        (SEQ ID NO:38)
       QQPGCENVCYDK              El                                                        (SEQ ID NO:39)
 25    VCYDKSFPISHVR             El                                                        (SEQ ID NO:40)
       Table 2 provides additional exemplary connexin peptides used in inhibiting hemichannel or gap
       junction function.     In other embodiments, conservative amino acid changes are made to the
       peptides or fragments thereof
 30        Table 2. Additional Peptidic Inhibitors of Intercellular Communication (cx32, cx43)
        Connexin       Location          AA's and Sequence
                                                         44

     Cx32            El      39-7     AAESVWGDEIKSSFICNTLQPGCNSVCYDHFFPISHVR              (SEQ ID NO: 41)
     Cx32            El      41-52    ESVWGDEKSSFI                                        (SEQ ID NO: 42)
     Cx32            El      52-63    ICNTLQPGCNSV                                        (SEQ ID NO: 43)
 5   Cx32            El      62-73    SVCYDHFFPISH                                        (SEQ ID NO: 44)
     Cx32            E2      164-188  RLVKCEAFPCPNTVDCFVSRPTEKT                           (SEQ ID NO: 45)
     Cx32            E2      166-177  VKCEAFPCPNTV                                        (SEQ ID NO: 46)
     Cx32            E2      177-188  VDCFVSRPTEKT                                        (SEQ ID NO: 47)
10   Cx32            El      63-75    VCYDHFFPISHVR                                       (SEQ ID NO: 48)
     Cx32            El      43-59    VWGDEKSSFICNTLQPGY                                  (SEQ ID NO: 49)
     Cx32            El      46-59    DEKSSFICNTLQPGY                                     (SEQ ID NO: 50)
     Cx32            E2       182-192  SRPTEKTVFTV                                         (SEQ ID NO: 51)
15   Cx32/Cx43       E2       182-188 SRPTEKT                                              (SEQ ID NO: 52)
                             201-207
     Cx43            El      64-76 VCYDKSFPISHVR                                           (SEQ ID NO: 53)
     Cx43            E2      201-211 SRPTEKTlFII                                           (SEQ ID NO: 54)
20   Cx32            El        52-63 ICNTLQPGCNSV                                          (SEQ ID NO: 55)
     Cx4O            E2       177-192 FLDTLHVCRRSPCPHP                                     (SEQ ID NO: 56)
      Cx43           E2      180-195 SLSAVYTCKRDPCPHQ                                      (SEQ ID NO: 57)
25    Cx43           El       64-76 VCYDKSFPISHVR                                          (SEQ ID NO: 58)
      Cx43            E2      201-211 SRPTEKTIFII                                           (SEQ ID NO: 59)
      Cx43            E2      188-205 KRDPCHQVDCFLSRPTEK                                    (SEQ ID NO: 60)
      Table 3 provides the extracellular loops for connexin family members which are used to develop
      peptide inhibitors described herein. The peptides and provided in Table 3, and fragments thereof,
 30   are used as peptide inhibitors in certain non-limiting embodiments.        In other non-limiting
      embodiments, peptides comprising from about 8 to about 15, of from about 11 to about 13 amino
      contiguous amino acids acids of the petides in this Table are peptide inhibitors of the invention.
      In other embodiments, conservative amino acid changes are made to the peptides or fragments
      thereof. See Boitano S. and Evans W. Am JPhysiolLung Cell Mol Physiol 279: L623-L630
 35    (2000).
  40
  45
                                                       45

                Table 3. Extracellular loops for various connexin family members
   El
                                     KEVWGDEQADFVCNTLQPGCKNVCYDHYFPISHIR          (SEQ   ID  NO:   68)
   huCx26
                                     QEVWGDEQEDFVCNTLQPGCKNVCYDHFFPVSHIR          (SEQ   ID  NO:   69)
   huCx30
                                     EEVWDDEQKDFVCNTKQPGCPNVCYDEFFPVSHVR          (SEQ   ID  NO:   70)
   huCx30.3
                                     ERVWGDEQKDFDCNTKQPGCTNVCYDNYFPISNIR          (SEQ   ID  NO:   71)
   huCx3l
                                     ERVWSDDHKDFDCNTRQPGCSNVCFDEFFPVSHVR          (SEQ   ID  NO:   72)
   huCx3l.1
                                     ESVWGDEKSSFICNTLQPGCNSVCYDQFFPISHVR           (SEQ  ID  NO:   73)
   huCx32
                                     ESVWGDEQSDFECNTAQPGCTNVCYDQAFPISHIR           (SEQ  ID  NO:   74)
   huCx36
                                     ESVWGDEQSDFECNTAQPGCTNVCYDQAFPISHIR           (SEQ  ID  NO:   75)
   huCx37
                                     RPVYQDEQERFVCNTLQPGCANVCYDVFSPVSHLR           (SEQ  ID  NO:   76)
   huCx40.1
                                     ESAWGDEQSAFRCNTQQPGCENVCYDKSFPISHVR           (SEQ  ID  NO:   77)
   huCx43
                                     EDVWGDEQSDFTCNTQQPGCENVCYDRAFPISHIR           (SEQ  ID  NO:   78)
   huCx46
                                     EAIYSDEQAKFTCNTRQPGCDNVCYDAFAPLSHVR           (SEQ  ID  NO:   79)
   huCx46.6
                                     ESSWGDEQADFRCDTIQPGCQNVCTDQAFPISHIR           (SEQ  ID  NO:    80)
   huCx40
                                   GESIYYDEQSKFVCNTEQPGCENVCYDAFAPLSHVR            (SEQ  ID  NO:    81)
   huCx45
    E2
                               MYVFYVMYDGFSMQRLVKCNAWPCPNTVDCFVSRPTEKT             (SEQ   ID  NO:   82)
    huCx26
                               MYVFYFLYNGYHLPWVLKCGIDPCPNLVDCFISRPTEKT             (SEQ   ID  NO:   83)
    huCx30
                                LYIFHRLYKDYDMPRVVACSVEPCPHTVDCYISRPTEKK            (SEQ   ID  NO:   84)
    huCx30.3
                              LYLLHTLWHGFNMPRLVQCANVAPCPNIVDCYIARPTEKK             (SEQ   ID  NO:   85)
    huCx3l
                                LYVFHSFYPKYILPPVVKCHADPCPNIVDCFISKPSEKN             (SEQ  ID  NO:   86)
    huCx31.1
                                MYVFYLLYPGYAMVRLVKCDVYPCPNTVDCFVSRPTEKT             (SEQ  ID  NO:   87)
    huCx32
                                         LYGWTMEPVFVCQRAPCPYLVDCFVSRPTEKT           (SEQ  ID  NO:   88)
    huCx36
                                         LYGWTMEPVFVCQRAPCPYLVDCFVSRPTEKT           (SEQ  ID  NO:   89)
    huCx37
                                 GALHYFLFGFLAPKKFPCTRPPCTGVVDCYVSRPTEKS             (SEQ  ID  NO:    90)
    huCx40.1
                                 LLIQWYIYGFSLSAVYTCKRDPCPHQVDCFLSRPTEKT             (SEQ  ID  NO:    91)
    huCx43
                                 IAGQYFLYGFELKPLYRCDRWPCPNTVDCFISRPTEKT             (SEQ  ID  NO:    92)
    huCx46
                                 LVGQYLLYGFEVRPFFPCSRQPCPHVVDCFVSRPTEKT             (SEQ  ID  NO:    93)
    huCx46.6
                                 IVGQYFIYGIFLTTLHVCRRSPCPHPVNCYVSRPTEKN             (SEQ  ID   NO:   94)
    huCx40
                                 LIGQYFLYGFQVHPFYVCSRLPCHPKIDCFISRPTEKT             (SEQ  ID   NO:   95)
    huCx45
             Sequences of the E2 domain of different connexin isotypes are shown with amino acids
 5   homologous to peptide SEQ ID NO:35 and peptide SEQ ID NO:36 shown in bold. Note that
     last 4 amino acids of peptide SEQ ID NO:36 are part of the fourth membrane domain.
       Table 4 provides the extracellular domain for connexin family members which are used to
     develop peptide inhibitors described herein.      The peptides and provided in Table 4, and
                                                                                               In other
     fragments thereof, are used as peptide inhibitors in certain non-limiting embodiments.
10   non-limiting embodiments, peptides comprising from about 8 to about 15, of from about 11 to
      about 13 amino contiguous amino acids acids of the petides in this Table are peptide inhibitors
      of the invention. In other embodiments, conservative amino acid changes are made to the
      peptides or fragments thereof.
                                                     46

                                  Table 4. Extracellular domains
                                                                VDCFLSRPTEKT      (SEQ ID NO: 35)
   Peptide
                                                                  SRPTEKTIFII     (SEQ ID NO: 36)
   Peptide
                           LLIQWYIYGFSLSAVYTCKRDPCPHQVDCFLSRPTEKTIFII             (SEQ ID   NO:  96)
   huCx43
   huCx26                 MYVFYVMYDGFSMQRLVKCNAWPCPNTVDCFVSRPTEKTVFTV             (SEQ  ID  NO:  97)
   huCx30                  YVFYFLYNGYHLPWVLKCGIDPCPNLVDCFISRPTEKTVFTI             (SEQ  ID  NO:  98)
   huCx30.3               LYIFHRLYKDYDMPRVVACSVEPCPHTVDCYISRPTEKKVFTY             (SEQ  ID  NO:  99)
   huCx31                   LYLLHTLWHGFNMPRLVQCANVAPCPNIVDCYIARPTEKKTY            (SEQ  ID  NO:  100)
   huCx31.1               LYVFHSFYPKYILPPVVKCHADPCPNIVDCFISKPSEKNIFTL             (SEQ  ID  NO:  101)
   huCx32                 MYVFYLLYPGYAMVRLVKCDVYPCPNTVDCFVSRPTEKTVFTV             (SEQ  ID  NO:  102)
   huCx36                          LYGWTMEPVFVCQRAPCPYLVDCFVSRPTEKTIFII           (SEQ  ID  NO:  103)
   huCx37                          LYGWTMEPVFVCQRAPCPYLVDCFVSRPTEKTIFII           (SEQ  ID  NO:  104)
   huCx40.1                 GALHYFLFGFLAPKKFPCTRPPCTGVVDCYVSRPTEKSLLML            (SEQ  ID  NO:  105)
   huCx46                   IAGQYFLYGFELKPLYRCDRWPCPNTVDCFISRPTEKTIFII            (SEQ  ID  NO:  106)
   huCx46.6                 LVGQYLLYGFEVRPFFPCSRQPCPHVVDCFVSRPTEKTVFLL            (SEQ  ID  NO:  107)
   huCx40                   IVGQYFIYGIFLTTLHVCRRSPCPHPVNCYVSRPTEKNVFIV            (SEQ  ID  NO:  108)
   huCx45                   LIGQYFLYGFQVHPFYVCSRLPCHPKIDCFISRPTEKTIFLL            (SEQ  ID  NO:  109)
            Table 5 provides peptides inhibitors of connexin 40 shown with reference to the
    extracellular loops (El and E2) of connexin 40.       The bold amino acids are directed to the
5   transmembrane regions of connexin 40.
                                 Table 5. Cx4O peptide inhibitors
    El
                     LGTAAESSWGDEQADFRCDTIQPGCQNVCTDQAFPISHIRFWVLQ                  (SEQ  ID  NO: 110)
                     LGTAAESSWGDEQA                                                 (SEQ  ID  NO: 111)
                                 DEQADFRCDTIQP                                      (SEQ  ID  NO: 112)
                                             TIQPGCQNVCTDQ                          (SEQ  ID  NO: 113)
                                                        VCTDQAFPISHIR               (SEQ  ID  NO: 114)
                                                             AFPISHIRFWVLQ          (SEQ  ID  NO: 115)
     E2
                      MEVGFIVGQYFIYGIFLTTLHVCRRSPCPHPVNCYVSRPTEKNVFIV               (SEQ   ID NO:  116)
                      MEVGFIVGQYF                                                   (SEQ   ID NO:  117)
                            IVGQYFIYGIFL                                            (SEQ   ID NO:  118)
                                     GIFLTTLHVCRRSP                                 (SEQ   ID NO:  119)
                                                  RRSPCPHPVNCY                      (SEQ   ID NO:  120)
                                                            VNCYVSRPTEKN            (SEQ   ID NO:  35)
                                                                   SRPTEKNVFIV      (SEQ   ID NO:   36)
             Table 6 provides peptides inhibitors of connexin 45 shown with reference to the
10   extracellular loops (El and E2) of connexin 45. The bold amino acids are directed to the
     transmembrane regions of connexin 45
                                                     47

                                      Table 6. Cx45 peptide inhibitors
   El
                   LTAVGGESIYYDEQSKFVCNTEQPGCENVCYDAFAPLSHVRFWVFQ                  (SEQ  ID  NO:  121)
                   LTAVGGESIYYDEQS                                                 (SEQ  ID  NO:  122)
                                DEQSKFVCNTEQP                                      (SEQ  ID  NO:  123)
                                          TEQPGCENVCYDA                            (SEQ  ID  NO:  124)
                                                      VCYDAFAPLSHVR                (SEQ  ID  NO:  125)
                                                             APLSHVRFWVFQ          (SEQ  ID  NO:  126)
   E2
                   FEVGFLIGQYFLYGFQVHPFYVCSRLPCHPKIDCFISRPTEKTIFLL                 (SEQ  ID  NO: 127)
                   FEVGFLIGQYF                                                     (SEQ  ID  NO: 128)
                          LIGQYFLYGFQV                                             (SEQ  ID  NO: 129)
                                   GFQVHPFYVCSRLP                                  (SEQ  ID  NO: 130)
                                                SRLPCHPKIDCF                       (SEQ  ID  NO: 131)
                                                          IDCFISRPTEKT             (SEQ  ID   NO: 36)
                                                               SRPTEKTIFLL         (SEQ   ID  NO: 37)
             In certain embodiments it is preferred that certain peptide inhibitors block
 5  hemichannels without a desired blocking of gap junctions. While not wishing to be bound to
    any particular theory or mechanism, it is also believed that certain mimetic peptides (e.g.
    VCYDKSFPISHVR, SEQ ID NO: 53) block hemichannels without causing uncoupling of gap
    junctions (See Leybeart et al., Cell Commun Adhes 10: 251 - 257 (2003)).            The peptide
     SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ ID NO: 54) may also be used, for example to block hemichannels without
10  uncoupling of gap junctions. The peptide SRGGEKNVFIV (SEQ ID NO: 61) may be used
     that as a control sequence (DeVriese et al., Kidney Internat. 61: 177 - 185 (2002)). Examples
     of peptide inhibitors for connexin 45 YVCSRLPCHP (SEQ ID NO:132), QVHPFYVCSRL
     (SEQ ID NO:133), FEVGFLIGQYFLY (SEQ ID NO:134), GQYFLYGFQVHP (SEQ ID
     NO:135), GFQVHPFYVCSR (SEQ ID NO:136), AVGGESIYYDEQ (SEQ ID NO:137),
15   YDEQSKFVCNTE            (SEQ   ID   NO:138),      NTEQPGCENVCY           (SEQ    ID    NO:139),
      CYDAFAPLSHVR (SEQ ID NO:140), FAPLSHVRFWVF (SEQ ID NO:141) and LIGQY
      SEQ ID NO:142), QVHPF (SEQ ID NO:143), YVCSR (SEQ ID NO:144), SRLPC (SEQ ID
      NO:145), LPCHP (SEQ ID NO:146) and GESlY (SEQ ID NO:147), YDEQSK (SEQ ID
      NO:148), SKFVCN (SEQ ID NO:149), TEQPGCEN (SEQ ID NO:150), VCYDAFAP (SEQ
                                                     48

    ID NO:15 1), LSHVRFWVFQ (SEQ ID NO:152) The peptides may only be 3 amino acids in
    length, including SRL, PCH, LCP, CHP, IYY, SKF, QPC, VCY, APL, HVR,. or longer, for
    example: LIQYFLYGFQVHPF (SEQ ID NO:153), VHPFYCSRLPCHP (SEQ ID NO:154),
    VGGESIYYDEQSKFVCNTEQPG (SEQ ID NO:155), TEQPGCENVCYDAFAPLSHVRF
 5   (SEQ ID NO:156), AFAPLSHVRFWVFQ (SEQ ID NO: 157).
               In certain non-limiting embodiments, peptides comprising from from about 3 to about 30,
     about 8 to about 15, of from about 11 to about 13 contiguous amino acids of the peptides in
     Formula 1A are peptide inhibitors of the invention.
      Formula 1A
10   X 1-X 2-X 3-X 4 -Xs-Gly-X7-Xs-X9-Xio-Xnl-X          12 -X 13 -X 14 -X 15 -X16-X 17 -X 1 8-Cys-X 2 0-X2
                                                                                                            1-X22-X23
      Pro-Gly-X 2 6-X 27 -X 2 8 -X 29 -Cys-X31-X 32 -X 33 -X 34 -X 35 -Pro-X 37 -X 3 8-X 3 9-X40-X41-X 42
                                                                                                          .X 43 -X 44
      X 45 -X 46 (Formula 1A)
                 wherein X1 and X37 are independently selected from a group consisting of Leu, Ile,
       Met and Val; X2 is selected from a group consisting of Thr, Asn, Ser and Ala; X3 is selected
15     from a group consisting of Ala, Ser, Gly and Thr; X 4, X 18, X 29, X 4o and X 44 are independently
       selected from a group consisting of Val, Ile, Met and Leu; X5 is selected from a group
       consisting of Gly, Glu, Asp, Ser and Ala; X 7 , X 13 , X2 2 andr X2 7 are independently selected
        from a group consisting of Glu, Asp, Gin and Lys; X8 , X 15 and X38 are independently selected
        from a group consisting of Ser, Ala, Asn and Thr; X9 is selected from a group consisting of
 20     Ile, Val, Leu and Met; Xio, Xu and X3 1 are independently selected from a group consisting of
        Tyr, Phe, Trp and His; X 12 and X 32 are independently selected from a group consisting of
        Asp, Glu and Asn; X 1 4 and X2 3 are independently selected from a group consisting of Gln,
        Glu, Arg and Lys; X16 is selected from a group consisting of Lys, Arg, Glu and Gln; X1 7 and
        X 34 are independently selected from a group consisting of Phe, Tyr and Trp; X20 and X 28 are
 25      independently selected from a group consisting of Asn, Ser, His and Asp; X 21 is selected from
                                                                 49

    a group consisting of Thr and Ser; X3 3 and X3 5 are independently selected from a group
    consisting of Ala and Ser; X3 9 is selected from a group consisting of His, Tyr and Asn;
              X4 1 is selected from a group consisting of Arg, Lys and Gln; X4 2 and X4 5 are
                                                                                                        selected
     independently selected from a group consisting of Phe, Tyr, Cys, Leu and Tyr; X4 3 is
 5   from a group consisting of Trp, Tyr, Arg, Lys, Cys and Phe; and X46 is selected from a group
     consisting of Gln, His, Glu, Lys, Arg, Asn and Asp.
             In certain non-limiting embodiments, peptides comprising from from about 3 to about 30,
    about 8 to about 15, of from about 11 to about 13 contiguous amino acids of the peptides in
    Formula1B are peptide inhibitors of the invention.
10  Formula IB:
    XI-X 2-X 3-X 4 -X 5-X 6-X 7-Gly-X9 -Xio-XI I-X 1 2-X 1 3-Gly-X 1 5-X 1 6-X 1 7-Xi8-Pro-X 20-X 21-X 22-Cys
    X 24 -X 25 -X 2 -Pro-Cys-X 29 -P-X 3 1-X32-X33-Cys-X35-X36-X37-X33-Pro-X4-X41-X42..X43-X44-X45
    X 46-X 47 -X 48 (Formula 1B)
                       and X22 are independently selected from a group consisting of Val, Ile, Met and
15    Leu; X4 is selected from a group consisting of Gly, Glu, Asp, Ser and Ala; X6 , X 12 and X26 are
      independently selected from a group consisting of Leu, Ile, Met and Val; X7 , X 32 , X 36, X4 4
      and X4s are independently selected from a group consisting of Ile, Val, Leu and Met; X9, and
      X 16 are independently selected from a group consisting of Gln, Glu, Arg and Lys; X10, X 13
      and X2 1 are independently selected from a group consisting of Tyr, Phe, Trp and His; XIu,
 20   X 15, X 2 o and X 35 are independently selected from a group consisting of Phe, Tyr and Trp; Xis
       and X 29 are independently selected from a group consisting of His, Tyr and Asn; X 24 and X37
       are independently selected from a group consisting of Ser, Ala, Asn and Thr; X25 and X3s are
       independently selected from a group consisting of Arg, Lys and Gln; X 31 and X42 are
       independently selected from a group consisting of Lys, Arg, Glu and Gln; X33 is selected from
 25    a group consisting of Asp, Glu and Asn; X 40 and X43 are independently selected from a group
                                                          50

     consisting of Thr and Ser; X4 1 is selected from a group consisting of Glu, Asp, Gln and Lys;
     and X4 6 and X47 are independently selected from a group consisting of Val, Ile, Met, Leu and
     Phe.
               In certain non-limiting embodiments, peptides comprising from about 3 to about 30, from
 5  about 8 to about 15, of from about 11 to about 13 contiguous amino acids of the peptides in
    Formula 2A are peptide inhibitors of the invention.
    Formula 2A
                                                                                                  -Pro
     X 1-X 2-X 3 -X 4-X 5 -X6 -X 7-X8-X-Gly-XI I-X 12-X 13-X 14-Xis-Xi6 -X 7-Cys-X19.X20-X21-X 22
10    Gly-Cys-X 26 -X 27-X 28-Cys-X30-X31-X32-X33-X34-Pro-X36-X37-X38.X39-X4a-X41-X42-X43-X44
     X 4 5 (Formula 2A)
               wherein X1 and X44 are independently selected from a group consisting of Leu, Ile,
      Met, Val and Pro; X2 is selected from a group consisting of Gly, Glu, Asp, Ser and Ala; X3 is
15    selected from a group consisting of Thr, Ser, Asn and Ala; X4 is selected from a group
      consisting of Ala, Ser, Gly and Thr; X5 , X28, X3 9 and X4 3 are independently selected from a
                                                                                                   from a
      group consisting of Val, Ile, Met and Leu; X6 , X 12 , and X2 6 are independently selected
      group consisting of Glu, Asp, Gln and Lys; X 7, X 14, X33 and X 37 are independently selected
      from a group consisting of Ser, Ala, Asn and Thr; X 8 and Xis are independently selected from
20    a group consisting of Ala and Ser; X9 is selected from a group consisting of Trp, Tyr and Phe;
      X11 and X3 1 are independently selected from a group consisting of Asp, Glu and Asn; X1 3 ,
      X 2 1 , and X2 2 are independently selected from a group consisting of Gln, Glu, Arg and Lys;X 16
       and X 34 are independently selected from a group consisting of Phe, Tyr and Trp; X17 and X 40
       are independently selected from a group consisting of Arg, Lys and Gln; X19 and X 27 are
 25    independently selected from a group consisting of Asn, Ser, His and Asp; X2o is selected from
       a group consisting of Thr and Ser; X3 0 is selected from a group consisting of Tyr, Phe, Trp
       and His; X32 is selected from a group consisting of Lys, Arg, Glu and Gln; X36 is selected
       from a group consisting of Ile, Val, Leu and Met; X 38 is selected from a group consisting of
                                                         51

     His, Tyr and Asn; X41 is selected from a group consisting of Phe, Tyr, Cys, Leu and Trp; X4 2
     is selected from a group consisting of Trp, Tyr, Phe, Arg, Lys and Cys; and X45 is selected
     from a group consisting of Gln, His, Glu, Lys, Arg, Asn and Asp.
              In certain non-limiting embodiments, peptides comprising from about 3 to about 30, from
 5  about 8 to about 15, of from about 11 to about 13 contiguous amino acids of the peptides in
    Formula 2B are peptide inhibitors of the invention.
     Formula 2B
    X1 -X 2-X 3-X 4-X 5 -X6 -X 7-XS-X 9-X10 -X11 -X 12-X 13 -Gly-Xi 5 -XI6-X 17-X 1 8-X 1 9-X 20 -X 2 1-X 22-Cys
10  X 24-X 25-X 26-Pro-Cys-Pro-X30-X31-X 32 -X 33-Cys-X 3s-X 36-X 37-X 38-Pro-X40-X41-X 42-X 43-X 44
    X 45 -X 46 -X 4 7-X 48 (Formula 2B)
               wherein X 1, X5 and X4 5 are independently selected from a group consisting of Phe, Tyr,
      Cys, Trp and Leu; X2 is selected from a group consisting of Glu, Asp, Gln, Gly, His, Arg, Asn
15    and Lys; X 3, X 17, and X 22 are independently selected from a group consisting of Val, Ile, Met
      and Leu; X4 is selected from a group consisting of Gly, Glu, Asp, Ser and Ala; X6 , X1 2 and
      X 26 are independently selected from a group consisting of Leu, Ile, Met and Val; X 7, X 32 , X 36 ,
      X 44 and X4 s are independently selected from a group consisting of Ile, Val, Leu and Met; X 9,
       and X16 are independently selected from a group consisting of Gln, Glu, Arg and Lys; X 10,
20     X 13 and X2 1 are independently selected from a group consisting of Tyr, Phe, Trp and His; X, 1,
       X 15 , X 2 0 and X3 5 are independently selected from a group consisting of Phe, Tyr and Trp; Xis
       and X 29 are independently selected from a group consisting of His, Tyr and Asn; X24 and X37
       are independently selected from a group consisting of Ser, Ala, Asn and Thr; X25 and X38 are
       independently selected from a group consisting of Arg, Lys and Gln; X3 1 and/or X 42 is
 25    selected from a group consisting of Lys, Arg, Glu and Gln; X 3 3 is selected from a group
       consisting of Asp, Glu and Asn; X40 and X43 are independently selected from a group
        consisting of Thr and Ser; X41 is selected from a group consisting of Glu, Asp, Gln and Lys;
                                                            52

     and X4 6 and X 4 7 are independently selected from a group consisting of Val, Ile, Met, Leu and
     Phe.
    Affinity Binding Assays for Peptides
             Pull-down assays may be used as to verify protein - peptide interaction. In this assay
 5  the peptide can be tagged, with a protein-reactive or fusion tag i.e. GST (Glutathione-S
    Transferase), which will be used to capture and 'pull-down' a protein-binding partner via
    attachment to a cellulose, agarose or nickel bead. Following elution of the complex utilizing
    either SDS-PAGE loading buffer or alternatively competitive analyte elution, the complex is
     visualised by running on an SDS-PAGE gel and using Western Analysis detection methods.
10   Art known methods of performing binding assays are described in Einarson, M.B. and
     Orlinick, J.R., "Identification of Protein-Protein Interactions with Glutathione S-Transferase
     Fusion Proteins" In Protein-Protein Interactions: A Molecular Cloning Manual, Cold Spring
     Harbor Laboratory Press, pp. 37-57 (2002), Einarson, M.B. Detection of Protein-Protein
     Interactions Using the GST Fusion Protein Pulldown Technique. In Molecular Cloning: A
                                                                                   18 55 1 8 59
15   Laboratory Manual, 3rd Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, pp. . - . (2001),
     and Vikis, H.G. and Guan, K.L. Glutathione-S-Transferase-Fusion Based Assays for Studying
     Protein-Protein Interactions. In Protein-Protein Interactions, Methods and Applications,
      Methods in Molecular Biology, 261, Fu, H. Ed. Humana Press, Totowa, N.J., pp. 175-186
      (2004), each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
20            Interactions and affinity of proteins and peptides can be assessed using surface plasmon
      resonance technology which enables these interactions to be measured in real time (available
      through BlAcore).       This approach has the advantage of detecting low affinity protein
      interactions.   Surface plasmon resonance relies on an optical phenomenon that is used to
      measure changes in the solution concentration of molecules at a biospecific surface. This
 25   signal arises in thin metal films under conditions of total internal reflection.      This signal
                                                       53

                                                                                         in solution
    depends on the refractive index of solutions in contact with the surface. Molecules
    exhibit changes in refractive index and thus give rise to a measurable signal if a biospecific
    interaction occurs. Typically, the protein is immobilized by one of several possible methods
    onto a carboxymethylated dextran-gold surface. The interacting peptide of interest is injected
 5  over the surface and the kinetics of binding are measured in real time. Art known methods of
    performing binding assays are described in Schuck, P., "Reliable determination of binding
    affinity and kinetics using surface plasmon resonance biosensors",        Currrent Opinion in
    Biotechnology, 8(4):498-502 (1997), and Zhang, X., Oglesbee, M. "Use of surface plasmon
     resonance for the measurement of low affinity binding interactions between HSP72 and
10   measles virus nucleocapsid protein." Biological ProceduresOnline. 5(1): 170-181 (2003).
     Functional Assays
              Functional assays can be used to determine whether mimetic peptides are able to block
     the opening of hemichannels. HeLa human cervical cancer cell line is stably transfected with
                                                                                            in a zero
      Cx43, Cx45, or another particular connexin of interest. The cells are incubated
15    calcium solution (HBSS-HEPES containing 1mM EGTA), which has been shown to activate
      connexin hemichannels (See Braet, K., et al., "Pharmacological sensitivity of ATP release
                                                                                           calcium in
      triggered by photoliberation of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate and zero extracellular
      brain endothelial cells. Journal of Cellular Physiology", 197(2): p. 205-213 (2003), DeVries,
      S.H. and E.A. Schwartz, "Hemi-gap-junction channels in solitary horizontal cells of the catfish
 20   retina." Journal of Physiology, 445: p. 201-230 (1992), and Li, H., et al., Properties and
                                                                                        cells. Journal
       regulation of gap junctional hemichannels in the plasma membranes of cultured
       of Cell Biology, 134(4): p. 1019-1030 (1996)). Cells will then be incubated for 30 minutes in
       a solution of HBSS-HEPES containing 1mM EGTA and 2 mM propidium iodide. Propidium
       iodide is a fluorescent dye which is membrane impermeable but because of its small molecular
 25    weight is able to enter through hemichannels. Propidium iodide uptake will be determined
                                                      54

    using fluorescence microscopy. Cells will be incubated with propidium iodide in the presence
    of the mimetic peptides to determine if these can prevent dye uptake.
    Polynucleotide and nucleic acid connexin inhibitors
            Antisense compounds may also be used in certain embodiments.                    Antisense
 5  compounds      include polynucleotides such as antisense deoxynucleotides,            morpholino
    nucleotides, RNAi and deoxribozymes targeted to specific connexin isoforms which result in
    reduced translation of the protein isoform and interfere with the function of cell gap junctions.
    Administration of these antisense compounds results in the reduction of gap-junction-mediated
    cell-cell communication at the site at which connexin expression is downregulated.
10           Antisense compounds, for example, have been used for the modulation of the
     expression for genes implicated in viral, fungal and metabolic diseases.           U.S. Pat. No.
     5,166,195, proposes oligonucleotide inhibitors of HIV.       U.S. Pat. No. 5,004,810 proposes
     oligomers for hybridizing to herpes simplex virus Vmw65 mRNA and inhibiting replication.
             Antisense compounds are provided, including oligonucleotides, for use in modulating
15   the function of nucleic acid molecules encoding connexins, ultimately modulating the amount
     of connexins produced. This is accomplished by providing, for example, oligonucleotides
     which specifically hybridize with nucleic acids, preferably mRNA, encoding connexins.
              An antisense oligonucleotide or polynucleotide may, for example, hybridize to all or
     part of a connexin mRNA. Typically the antisense polynucleotide hybridizes to the ribosome
 20   binding region or the coding region of the connexin mRNA. The polynucleotide may be
      complementary to all of or a region of a connexin mRNA. For example, the polynucleotide
      may be the exact complement of all or a part of connexin mRNA.                     The antisense
      polynucleotide may inhibit transcription and/or translation of the connexin. Preferably the
      polynucleotide is a specific inhibitor of transcription and/or translation of the connexin gene,
 25   and does not inhibit transcription and/or translation of other genes. The product may bind to
                                                      55

   the connexin gene or mRNA either (i) 5' to the coding sequence, and/or (ii) to the coding
   sequence, and/or (iii) 3' to the coding sequence. Generally the antisense polynucleotide will
   cause the expression of connexin mRNA and/or protein in a cell to be reduced. The antisense
   polynucleotide is generally antisense to the connexin mRNA. Such a polynucleotide may be
 5  capable of hybridizing to the connexin mRNA and may inhibit the expression of connexin by
    interfering with one or more aspects of connexin mRNA metabolism including transcription,
    mRNA processing, mRNA transport from the nucleus, translation or mRNA degradation. The
    antisense polynucleotide typically hybridizes to the connexin mRNA to form a duplex which
    can cause direct inhibition of translation and/or destabilization of the mRNA. Such a duplex
10  may be susceptible to degradation by nucleases.
             Hybridization of antisense oligonucleotides with mRNA interferes with one or more of
    the normal functions of mRNA. The functions of mRNA to be interfered with include all vital
     functions such as, for example, translocation of the RNA to the site of protein translation,
     translation of protein from the RNA, splicing of the RNA to yield one or more mRNA species,
15   and catalytic activity which may be engaged in by the RNA. Binding of specific protein(s) to
     the RNA may also be interfered with by antisense oligonucleotide hybridization to the RNA.
              The overall effect of interference with mRNA function is modulation of expression of
      connexin.     In the context of this invention "modulation" includes either inhibition or
      stimulation; i.e., either a decrease or increase in expression. This modulation can be measured
20    in ways which are routine in the art, for example by Northern blot assay of mRNA expression,
      or reverse transcriptase PCR, as taught in the examples of the instant application or by Western
      blot or ELISA assay of protein expression, or by an immunoprecipitation assay of protein
      expression. Effects on cell proliferation or tumor cell growth can also be measured, as taught
      in the examples of the instant application. Inhibition is presently preferred.
                                                        56

            Once the target site or sites have been identified, oligonucleotides are chosen which are
    sufficiently complementary to the target, i.e., hybridize sufficiently well and with sufficient
    specificity, to give the desired modulation.        The antisense nucleic acids (DNA, RNA,
    modified, analogues, and the like) can be made using any suitable method for producing a
 5  nucleic acid. Oligodeoxynucleotides directed to other connexin proteins can be selected in
    terms of their nucleotide sequence by any art recognized approach, such as, for example, the
    computer programs MacVector and OligoTech (from Oligos etc.Eugene, Oregon, USA).
    Equipment for such synthesis is available through several vendors including MacVector and
    OligoTech (from Oligos etc. Eugene, Oregon, USA).                For general methods relating to
10  antisense polynucleotides, see Antisense RNA and DNA, D. A. Melton, Ed., Cold Spring
    Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY (1988)).           See also, Dagle et al., Nucleic Acids
     Research, 19: 1805 (1991).     For antisense therapy, see, for example, Uhlmann et al., Chem.
     Reviews, 90: 543-584 (1990). Typically, at least a portion of the nucleotide sequence is known
     for connexins in which the inhibition of expression is desired. Polynucleotide targets may be
15   further identified by gene walking techniques and walking PCR.              Such approaches for
     identifying unknown polynucleotide sequences adjacent to known nucleotide sequences are
     well known in the art. See for example Parker J.D., et al. Nucleic Acids Res 19:3055-60
     (1991) for a description of walking PCR). All of the preceding references, as well as others
     referenced herein, are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.          Preferably, an
20    antisense compound is targeted to one or more specific connexin isotypes. Particular connexin
      isotypes may be targeted, for example, based upon their temporal or spatial expression. Gap
     junctions are expressed in vascular tissues and, in certain embodiments, connexin isotypes
      expressed in vascular tissues (e.g. endothelial cells) are targeted.      See Camelliti P. et al.,
      Cardiovasc. Res. 62: 414 - 425 (2004). Endothelial cells, endothelial progenitor cells, and
 25    smooth muscle cells have been reported to express connexins 37, 40, 43 and 45. See De Wit,
                                                       57

                                                                         Szmitko et al., (2003). It has
    (2004); Haefliger et al., (2004), Sohl and Willecke, (2004), and
    also been reported that connexin 43 is upregulated in the blood vessels adjacent to wound
    sites. Qiu C et al., Current Biology, 13: 1967 - 1703 (2003).
              In other embodiments, other isotypes are be targeted. Specific isotypes of connexins
 5   that may be targeted by the antisense compounds include, without limitation 45, 43, 37, 31.1,
                                                                                                targets
     26, and others described herein. In certain embodiments the anti-connexin compound
     connexin 43, 45 and/or 40, and in others the anti-connexin compound targets connexin 7, 32
                                                                                               one anti
      and/or 26. One or more than one connexin may be targeted In certain embodiments
      connexin compound targets more than one connexin (e.g. connexin 43 and connexin 45). In
                                                                                                    or
10    other embodiments, more than one anti-connexin compound is included in a formulation
      composition (e.g. a pharmaceutical composition). The invention contemplated that any
      connexin may be targeted by one or more than one anti-connexin compound described herein,
      known in the art, or later discovered.
               It is preferred, but not required, that the targeted connexins are human. A connexin
                                                                                                   certain
15    may, for example, have a nucleobase sequence selected from SEQ ID NO: 12-31. In
                                                                                                       acid
       embodiments, antisense compounds are targeted to at least 8 nucleobases of a nucleic
                                                                                               NO: 12-31.
       molecule encoding a connexin having a nucleobase sequence selected from SEQ ID
               Connexin targets will vary depending upon the type of tissue to be engineered or
                                                                                                       will
       remodeled and the precise sequence of the antisense polynucleotide used in the invention
 20    depend upon the target connexin protein. The connexin protein or proteins targeted by the
                                                                                        is to be directed.
       oligonucleotides will be dependent upon the site at which downregulation
       This reflects the nonuniform make-up of gap junction (s) at different sites throughout the body
        in terms of connexin sub-unit composition.         Some connexin proteins are however more
        ubiquitous than others in terms of distribution in tissue. As described herein,
                                                         58

            Oligonucleotides either alone or in combination may be targeted towards connexin 45,
    43, 26, 37, 30 and /or 31.1 (e.g. see SEQ. ID. NOS:12-31) which are suitable for corneal
    engineering      or   remodeling   application.     In   one   aspect   of the    invention,  the
    oligodeoxynucleotides may be unmodified phosphodiester oligomers. In another aspect of the
 5  invention, the polynucleotides may be single or double stranded.
             In certain non-limiting examples, antisense compounds are targeted to specific regions
    of a connexin mRNA or pre-mRNA molecule, including exons, introns, mRNA splice sites
    (exon-exon or intron-exon junctions), the 5'-untranslated region, and the 3'-untranslated region.
             It is also contemplated that oligonucleotides targeted at separate connexin proteins may
10  be used in combination (for example one, two, three, four or more different connexins may be
    targeted). For example, ODNs targeted to connexin 45, and one or more other members of the
     connexin family (such as connexin 43, 26, 30, 31.1, 37 and 43) can be used in combination. It
     is also contemplated that individual antisense polynucleotides may be specific to a particular
     connexin, or may target 1, 2, 3 or more different connexins.        Specific polynucleotides will
15   generally target sequences in the connexin gene or mRNA which are not conserved between
     connexins, whereas non-specific polynucleotides will target conserved sequences. Thus, in
     certain embodiments, antisense compounds are targeted to at least 8 nucleobases of a nucleic
      acid molecule encoding human connexin 26, connexin 30, connexin 31.1, human connexin 37,
      connexin 43, connexin 45, wherein said antisense compound inhibits the expression of a
20    human connexin protein in cells associated with the eye of said patient.
              In certain embodiments, the nucleic acid molecules corresponding to a connexin have a
      nucleobase sequence selected from SEQ. ID NO: 12-31 included in the sequence listing of this
      application (corresponding to includes for example complements, cDNA's, portions encoding
      a connexin protein, etc.). In certain embodiments, the compositions target two or more human
 25   connexin proteins and inhibit the expression of two or more human connexin proteins. In
                                                      59

    further certain embodiments, the antisense compounds are antisense oligonucleotides.
    Exemplary antisense oligonucleotides to connexin 43 include GTA ATT GCG GCA AGA
    AGA ATT GTT TCT GTC (SEQ ID NO: 1); GTA ATT GCG GCA GGA GGA ATT GTT
    TCT GTC (SEQ ID NO: 2); and GGC AAG AGA CAC CAA AGA CAC TAC CAG CAT
 5  (SEQ ID NO: 3). An example of an antisense oligonucleotide to connexin 26 has the sequence
    TCC TGA GCA ATA CCT AAC GAA CAA ATA (SEQ ID NO: 4). Exemplary antisense
    oligonucleotide to connexin 37 selected include 5' CAT CTC CTT GGT GCT CAA CC 3'
     (SEQ ID NO: 5) and 5' CTG AAG TCG ACT TGG CTT GG 3' (SEQ ID NO: 6). Exemplary
     antisense oligonucleotide to connexin 30 selected include 5'CTC AGA TAG TGG CCA GAA
10   TGC 3' (SEQ ID NO: 7) and 5' TTG TCC AGG TGA CTC CAA GG 3' (SEQ ID NO: 8).
     Exemplary antisense oligonucleotide to connexin 31.1 selected include 5' CGT CCG AGC
     CCA GAA AGA TGA GGT C 3'( SEQ ID NO: 9); 5' AGA GGC GCA CGT GAG ACA C 3'
     (SEQ ID NO: 10); and 5' TGA AGA CAA TGA AGA TGT T 3'(SEQ ID NO: 11).
              In a further embodiment, oligodeoxynucleotides selected from the following sequences
15    are particularly suitable for down-regulating connexin 43 expression:
              5' GTA ATT GCG GCA AGA AGA ATT GTT TCT GTC 3'                      (SEQ ID NO: 1)
      5' GTA ATT GCG GCA GGA GGA ATT GTT TCT GTC 3'; and (SEQ ID NO: 2)
      5' GGC AAG AGA CAC CAA AGA CAC TAC CAG CAT 3'                        (SEQ ID NO: 3)
      In yet another embodiment, oligodeoxynucleotides selected from the group following
20    sequences are particularly suitable for connexins 26, 37, 30, and 31.1:
      5' TCC TGA GCA ATA CCT AAC GAA CAA ATA 3' (connexin26)                      (SEQ ID NO: 4)
      5' CAT CTC CTT GGT GCT CAA CC 3' (connexin37)                               (SEQ ID NO: 5)
      5' CTG AAG TCG ACT TGG CTT GG 3' (connexin37)                               (SEQ ID NO: 6)
       5' CTC AGA TAG TGG CCA GAA TGC 3' (connexin30)                             (SEQ ID NO: 7)
 25    5' TTG TCC AGG TGA CTC CAA GG 3' (connexin30)                              (SEQ ID NO: 8)
                                                      60

    5' CGT CCG AGC CCA GAA AGA TGA GGT C 3'(connexin31.1)                          (SEQ ID NO: 9)
    5' AGA GGC GCA CGT GAG ACA C 3' (connexin3 1.1)                                (SEQ ID NO: 10)
    5' TGA AGA CAA TGA AGA TGT T 3' (connexin3 1.1)                                (SEQ ID NO: 11)
             Antisense compounds provided herein generally comprise from about 8 to about 40
 5  nucleobases (i.e. from about 8 to about 40 linked nucleosides), and more typically those
    comprising from about 12 to about 40 nucleobases, and even more typically about 30
    nucleobases. Antisense compounds comprising polynucleotides may be at least about 40, for
    example at least about 60 or at least about 80, nucleotides in length and up to 100, 200, 300,
    400, 500, 1000, 2000 or 3000 or more nucleotides in length. Suitable antisense compounds
10   include, for example, a 30 mer ODN.
             In certain embodiments, antisense compounds are targeted to at least about 8
     nucleobases of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a connexin having a nucleobase sequence
     selected from SEQ ID NO:12-31. In other embodiments, the antisense compound is targeted
     to at least about 10, at least about 12, at least about 14, at least about 16, at least about 18, at
15   least about 20, at least about 25, at least about 30, and at least about 35 nucleobases of a
     nucleic acid molecule encoding a connexin having a nucleobase sequence selected from SEQ
      ID NO:12-31.    The size of the antisense compounds, including oligonucleotides targeted to
      between at least about 8 and 35 nucleobases of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a human
      connexin, may be 8 nucleobases in length or longer, between 8 and 100 nucleobases, between
20    eight and 50 nucleobases, between eight and 40 nucleobases, between 10 and 50 nucleobases,
      between 12 and 50 nucleobases, between 14 and 50 nucleobases, between 16 and 50
      nucleobases, between 18 and 50 nucleobases, between 20 and 50 nucleobases, between 25 and
       50 nucleobases, between 15 and 35 nucleobases in length, and the like.            Other antisense
       compounds of the invention may be or smaller or larger is size, for example having more than
 25    100 nucleobases in length.
                                                       61

             Antisense compounds include without limitation antisense oligonucleotides (ODN),
    antisense polynucleotides, deoxyribozymes, morpholino oligonucleotides, RNAi molecules or
    analogs thereof, siRNA molecules or analogs thereof, PNA molecules or analogs thereof,
    DNAzymes or analogs thereof, 5'-end -mutated U 1 small nuclear RNAs and analogs thereof..
 5           As    provided     herein,    the    antisense   compound      may  include   the  use  of
    oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs). ODNs are generally about 20 nucleotides in length and act by
    hybridizing to pre-mRNA and mRNA to produce a substrate for ribonuclease H (RNase H),
    which specifically degrades the RNA strand of the formed RNA-DNA duplexes. If modified
    in a way to prevent the action of RNase H, ODNs can inhibit translation of mRNA via steric
10  hindrance, or inhibit splicing of pre-mRNAs. ODNs and modifications thereof have been used
    to target dsDNA for the inhibition of transcription by the formation of triple helices. ODN
    may be obtained by art-recognized methods of automated synthesis and it is relatively
     straightforward to obtain ODNs of any sequence and to block gene expression via antisense
     base pairing.
15            In certain aspects, the phosphodiester backbone of ODNs can be modified to increase
     their efficacy as target-specific agents for blocking gene expression.              These backbone
     modifications were developed to improve the stability of the ODNs and to enhance their
     cellular uptake. The most widely used modification is one in which the nonbridging oxygen is
     replaced by a sulfur atom, creating phosphorothioate ODNs. At least one phosphorothioate
20   ODN has been approved by the FDA, and several other phosphorothioate antisense ODNs are
      in earlier stages of clinical trials for a variety of cancers and inflammatory diseases.
               The mechanisms of action of ODNs with respect to blocking gene function vary
      depending upon the backbone of the ODN (Branch, A. D. Hepatology 24, 1517-1529 (1996);
      Dias, N. and Stein, C. A. Mol. Cancer Thor. 1,347-355 (2002); Stein, C.A. and Cohen, J. S.,
 25   Cancer Res. 48, 2659-2668 (1988); Zon, G. Ann. N.Y. Acad Sci., 616, 161-172 (1990). Net
                                                           62

    negatively charged ODNs, such as phosphodiesters and phorphorothioates, elicit RNAse H
    mediated cleavage of the target mRNA. Other backbone modifications that do not recruit
    RNAse H, because of their lack of charge or the type of helix formed with the target RNA, can
    be classified as steric hindrance ODNs. Popularly used members of this latter group include
 5  morpholinos, U-O-methyls, 2"-O-allyls, locked nucleic acids and peptide nucleic acids
    (PNAs).     These ODNs can block splicing, translation, nuclear-cytoplasmic transport and
    translation, among other inhibition targets.
             In another aspect, modulation of the connexin expression involves the use of
    ribozymes. Ribozymes are RNA molecules that act as enzymes, even in the complete absence
10  of proteins. They have the catalytic activity of breaking and/or forming covalent bonds with
     extraordinary specificity, thereby accelerating the spontaneous rates of targeted reactions by
     many orders of magnitude.
              Ribozymes bind to RNA through Watson - Crick base pairing and act to degrade target
     RNA by catalysing the hydrolysis of the phosphodiester backbone. There are several different
15   classes of ribozymes, with the 'hammerhead' ribozyme being the most widely studied. As its
     name implies, the hammerhead ribozyme forms a unique secondary structure when hybridized
     to its target mRNA. The catalytically important residues within the ribozyme are flanked by
     target-complementary sequences that flank the target RNA cleavage site.          Cleavage by a
     ribozyme requires divalent ions, such as magnesium, and is also dependent on target RNA
20    structure and accessibility.   Co-localizing a ribozyme with a target RNA within the cell
     through the use of localization signals greatly increases their silencing efficiency.      The
      hammerhead ribozymes are short enough to be chemically synthesized or can be transcribed
      from vectors, allowing for the continuous production of ribozymes within cells.
              The ability of RNA to serve as a catalyst was first demonstrated for the self-splicing
 25   group I intron of Tetrahymena thermophila and the RNA moiety of RNAse.               After the
                                                     63

    discovery of these two RNA enzymes, RNA-mediated catalysis has been found associated with
    the self-splicing group II introns of yeast, fungal and plant mitochondria (as well as
    chloroplasts) single-stranded plant viroid and virusoid RNAs, hepatitis delta virus and a
    satellite RNA from Neurospora crassamitochondria. Ribozymes occur naturally, but can also
 5  be artificially engineered for expression and targeting of specific sequences in cis (on the same
    nucleic acid strand) or trans (a noncovalently linked nucleic acid). New biochemical activities
     are being developed using in vitro selection protocols as well as generating new ribozyme
     motifs that act on substrates other than RNA.
             The group I intron of T. thermophila was the first cis-cleaving ribozyme to be
10   converted into a trans-reactingform, which we refer to as an intron/ribozyme, making it useful
     both in genomic research and as a possible therapeutic.          In the trans-splicing reaction, a
     defective exon of a targeted mRNA can be exchanged for a correct exon that is covalently
     attached to the intron/ribozyme. This occurs via a splicing reaction in which the exon attached
     to the intron is positioned by base pairing to the target mRNA so that it can be covalently
15   joined to the 5" end of the target transcript in a transesterification reaction. This reaction has
     been used to trans-splice wild-type sequences into sickle cell globin transcripts and mutant
     p53 transcripts and replace the expanded triplets in the 3"-UTR of protein kinase transcripts in
      a myotonic dystrophy allele.
              The endoribonuclease RNAse P is found in organisms throughout nature. This enzyme
20    has RNA and one or more protein components depending upon the organism from which it is
      isolated. The RNA component from the Escherichiacoli and Bacillus subtilis enzymes can act
      as a site-specific cleavage agent in the absence of the protein trader certain salt and ionic
      conditions.    Studies of the substrate requirements for human and bacterial enzymes have
      shown that the minimal substrates for either enzyme resemble a segment of a transfer RNA
 25   molecule. This structure can be mimicked by uniquely designed antisense RNAs, which pair
                                                      64

    to the target RNA, and serve as substrates for RNAse P-mediated, site-specific cleavage both
    in the test tube and in cells. It has also been shown that the antisense component can be
    covalently joined to the RNAse P RNA, thereby directing the enzyme only to the target RNA
     of interest. Investigators have taken advantage of this property in the design of antisense
 5   RNAs, which pair with target mRNAs of interest to stimulate site-specific cleavage of the
     target and for targeted inhibition of both herpes simplex virus and cytomegalovirus in cell
     culture.
              A number of small plant pathogenic RNAs (viroids, satellite RNAs and virusoids), a
     transcript from a N. crassa mitochondrial DNA plasmid and the animal hepatitis delta virus
10   undergo a self-cleavage reaction in vitro in the absence of protein.         The reactions require
      neutral pH and Mg2 +. The self-cleavage reaction is an integral part of the in vivo rolling circle
      mechanism of replication. These self-cleaving RNAs can be subdivided into groups depending
      on the sequence and secondary structure formed about the cleavage site. Small ribozymes
      have been derived from a motif found in single-stranded plant viroid and virusoid RNAs. On
15    the basis of a shared secondary structure and a conserved set of nucleotides, the term
      "hammerhead" has been given to one group of this self-cleavage domain. The hammerhead
      ribozyme is composed of 30 nucleotides. The simplicity of the hammerhead catalytic domain
      has made it a popular choice in the design of trans-actingribozymes. Using Watson-Crick
      base pairing, the hammerhead ribozyme can be designed to cleave any target RNA. The
 20    requirements at the cleavage site are relatively simple, and virtually any UH sequence motif
       (where H is U, C or A) can be targeted.
               A second plant-derived, self-cleavage motif, initially identified in the negative strand of
       the tobacco ringspot satellite RNA, has been termed the 'hairpin' or "paperclip." The hairpin
       ribozymes cleave RNA substrates in a reversible reaction that generates 2", Y-cyclic phosphate
 25    and 5"-hydroxT1 termini - engineered versions of this catalytic motif also cleave and turn over
                                                      65

    multiple copies of a variety of targets in trans. Substrate requirements for the hairpin include
    a GUC, with cleavage occurring immediately upstream of the G. The hairpin ribozyme also
    catalyzes a ligation reaction, although it is more frequently used for cleavage reactions.
             There have been numerous applications of both hammerhead and hairpin ribozymes in
 5  cells for downregulating specific cellular and viral targets. Haseloff and Gerlach designed a
    hammerhead motif (Haseloff and Gerlach; Nature. Aug 18; 334(6183): 585-91 (1988)) that can
    be engineered to cleave any target by modifying the arms that base pair with right target.
    Ramemzani et al. demonstrated that this hammerhead ribozyme motif had potential
    therapeutic applications in a study in which there was a virtual complete inhibition of viral
10   gene expression and replication using cells engineered to express an anti-human
     immunodeficiency virus (HIV) gag ribozyme (Ramezani A. et al., Frontiers in Bioscience 7:a,
     29-36; (2002)).
              In another aspect, modulation of the connexin expression involves the use of catalytic
     DNAs (or DNAzymes). Small DNAs capable of site specifically cleaving RNA targets have
15   been developed via in vitro evolution (as no known DNA enzymes occur in nature). Two
      different catalytic motifs, with different cleavage site specificities have been identified. The
      most commonly used 10-20 enzymes bind to their RNA substrates via Watson-Crick base
      pairing and site specifically cleave the target RNA, as do the hammerhead and hairpin
      ribozymes, resulting in 2; 3"-cyclic phosphate and 5"-OH termini.         Cleavage of the target
 20   mRNAs results in their destruction and the DNAzymes recycle and cleave multiple substrates.
      Catalytic DNAs are relatively inexpensive to synthesize and have good catalytic properties,
      making them useful substitutes for either antisense DNA or ribozymes.
               Several applications of DNAzymes in cell culture have been published including the
       inhibition of veg FmRNA and consequent prevention of angiogenesis, and inhibition of
 25    expression of the bcr/abl fusion transcript characteristic of chronic myelogenous leukemia.
                                                       66

    Catalytic DNAs can be delivered exogenously, and they can be backbone-modified to in order
    to optimize systemic delivery in the absence of a carrier.
             In another aspect of the present invention, the modulation of the constitutive connexin
    gene involves the use of oligonucleotides              having morpholino backbone       structures.
 5   Summerton, J.E. and Weller, D.D. U.S. Pat. No. 5,034,506.
             In another aspect of the invention, the antisense polynucleotides may be chemically
     modified in order to enhance their resistance to nucleases and increase the efficacy of cell
     entry.    For example, mixed backbone oligonucleotides (MBOs) containing segments of
     phosphothioate oligodeoxynucleotides        and appropriately placed segments of modified
10   oligodeoxyor oligoribonucleotides may be used. MBOs have segments of phosphorothioate
     linkages and other segments of other modified oligonucleotides, such as methylphosphonates,
     phosphoramidates, phosphorodithioates, N3'P5'-phosphoramidates and oligoribonucleotide
     phosphorothioates        and   their  2'-0-    alkyl   analogs  and    2'-O-methylribonucleotide
     methylphosphonates, which are non-ionic, and very resistant to nucleases or 2'-O
15   alkyloligoribonucleotides.
              As is known in the art, a nucleoside is a base-sugar combination. The base portion of
     the nucleoside is normally a heterocyclic base.          The two most common classes of such
      heterocyclic bases are the purines and the pyrimidines.        Nucleotides are nucleosides that
      further include a phosphate group covalently linked to the sugar portion of the nucleoside. For
20    those nucleosides that include a pentofuranosyl sugar, the phosphate group can be linked to
      either the 2', 3' or 5' hydroxyl moiety of the sugar. In forming oligonucleotides, the phosphate
      groups covalently link adjacent nucleosides to one another to form a linear polymeric
      compound. In turn the respective ends of this linear polymeric structure can be further joined
      to form a circular structure, however, open linear structures are generally preferred. Within the
 25    oligonucleotide structure, the phosphate groups are commonly referred to as forming the
                                                        67

    internucleoside backbone of the oligonucleotide. The normal linkage or backbone of RNA and
    DNA is a 3' to 5' phosphodiester linkage.
              The antisense compounds useful in this invention may include oligonucleotides
    containing modified backbones or non-natural internucleoside linkages.          Oligonucleotides
 5  having modified backbones include those that retain a phosphorus atom in the backbone and
    those that do not have a phosphorus atom in the backbone. In the context of this invention,
    modified oligonucleotides that do not have a phosphorus atom in their internucleoside
    backbone can also be considered to be oligonucleosides.
               The antisense compounds with modified oligonucleotide backbones useful in this
10   invention     may   include,    for  example,    phosphorothioates,    chiral phosphorothioates,
     phosphorodithioates, phosphotriesters, aminoalkylphosphotriesters, methyl and other alkyl
     phosphonates including 3' -alkylene phosphonates and chiral phosphonates, phosphinates,
     phosphoramidates including 3'-amino phosphoramidate and aminoalkylphosphoramidates,
     thionophosphoramidates,         thionoalkylphosphonates,      thionoalkylphosphotriesters,     and
15   boranophosphates having normal 3'-5' linkages, 2'-5' linked analogs of these, and those having
      inverted polarity wherein the adjacent pairs of nucleoside units are linked 3'-5' to 5'-3' or 2'-5'
      to 5'-2'. Various salts, mixed salts and free acid forms are also included.
               In one aspect, it is contemplated that modified oligonucleotide backbones that do not
      include a phosphorus atom therein have backbones that are formed by short chain alkyl or
20    cycloalkyl internucleoside linkages, mixed heteroatom and alkyl or cycloalkyl internucleoside
      linkages, or one or more short chain heteroatomic or heterocyclic internucleoside linkages.
      These include those having morpholino linkages (formed in part from the sugar portion of a
       nucleoside); siloxane backbones; sulfide, sulfoxide and sulfone backbones; formacetyl and
       thioformacetyl backbones; methylene formacetyl and thioformacetyl backbones; alkene
 25    containing backbones;       sulfamate backbones; methyleneimino         and methylenehydrazino
                                                        68

    backbones; sulfonate and sulfonamide backbones; amide backbones; and others having mixed
    N, 0, S and CH2 component parts.
             In one aspect, it is contemplated that oligonucleotide mimetics, both the sugar and the
    internucleoside linkage, i. e. the backbone of the nucleotide units are replaced with novel
 5  groups. The base units are maintained for hybridization with an appropriate nucleic acid target
    compound. One such oligomeric compound, an oligonucleotide mimetic that has been shown
    to have excellent hybridization properties, is referred to as a peptide nucleic acid (PNA). In
    PNA compounds, the sugar-backbone of an oligonucleotide is replaced with an amide
    containing backbone, in particular an aminoethylglycine backbone.           The nucleobases are
10  retained and are bound directly or indirectly to aza nitrogen atoms of the amide portion of the
    backbone. Further teaching of PNA compounds can be found in Nielsen et al. (Science, 254,
     1497-1500 (1991)).
              In one aspect, oligonucleotides with phosphorothioate backbones and oligonucleosides
     with heteroatom backbones, and in particular --CH2 --NH--O--CH2 -- , --CH--2 N(CH)3 --0-
15   CH--2 [known as a methylene (methylimino) or MMI backbone], --CH2 --O--N(CH3)--CH2
     ,-CH2      --N(CH3)--N(CH3)--CH2      -- and --O--N(CH3)--CH2 --CH2 -- [wherein the native
     phosphodiester backbone is represented as --O--P--O--CH2 -- ] are contemplated.             In yet
     another aspect, oligonucleotides having morpholino and amide backbone structures are also
     contemplated.
20             In another aspect, it is contemplated that the modified oligonucleotides may also
     contain one or more substituted sugar moieties. For example, oligonucleotides comprising one
      of the following at the 2 position: OH; F; 0--, S--, or N-alkyl, 0-alkyl-O-alkyl, 0--, S--, or N
      alkenyl, or 0--, S-- or N-alkynyl, wherein the alkyl, alkenyl and alkynyl may be substituted or
      unsubstituted C1 to C10 alkyl or C2 to C10 alkenyl and alkynyl. Particularly preferred are
 25   O[(CH2)n O]m CH3, O(CH2)n OCH3, O(CH2)2 ON(CH3)2, O(CH2)n NH2, O(CH2)n CH3,
                                                       69

    O(CH2)n ONH2, and O(CH2)n ON[(CH2)n CH3)]2, where n and m are from 1 to about 10.
    Other preferred oligonucleotides may comprise one of the following at the 2' position: C1 to
    C10 lower alkyl, substituted lower alkyl, alkaryl, aralkyl, 0-alkaryl or O-aralkyl, SH, SCH3,
    OCN, Cl, Br, CN, CF3, OCF3, SOCH3, S02 CH3, ON02, N02, N3, NH2, heterocycloalkyl,
 5  heterocycloalkaryl, aminoalkylamino, polyalkylamino, substituted silyl, an RNA cleaving
    group, a reporter group, an intercalator, a group for improving the pharmacokinetic properties
    of an oligonucleotide, or a group for improving the pharmacodynamic properties of an
    oligonucleotide, and other substituents having similar properties. A preferred modification
    includes 2'-methoxyethoxy (2'--O--CH2 CH2 OCH, 3 also known as 2'--O--(2-methoxyethyl)
10  or 2'-MOE) (Martin et al. Helv. Chim. Acta 1995, 78, 486-504) i.e. an alkoxyalkoxy group.
    Other modification includes 2'-dimethylaminooxyethoxy, i.e., a O(CH2)2 ON(CH3). 2 group,
    also known as 2'-DMAOE, and 2'-dimethylamino-ethoxyethoxy (2'-DMAEOE), i.e., 2'--0-
    CH2 --O--CH2 --N(CH2)2.
            It is further contemplated that the modifications may include 2'-methoxy (2'--O--CH3),
15   2'-aminopropoxy (2'--OCH2 CH2 CH2 N12) and 2'-fluoro (2'-F). Similar modifications may
     also be made at other positions on the oligonucleotide, particularly the 3' position of the sugar
     on the 3' terminal nucleotide or in 2'-5' linked oligonucleotides and the 5' position of 5'
     terminal nucleotide.     Oligonucleotides may also have sugar mimetics such as cyclobutyl
     moieties in place of the pentofuranosyl sugar.
 20          In another aspect, it is contemplated that the oligonucleotides may also include
     nucleobase (often referred to in the art simply as "base") modifications or substitutions. As
     used herein, "unmodified" or "natural" nucleobases include the purine bases adenine (A) and
      guanine (G), and the pyrimidine bases thymine (T), cytosine (C) and uracil (U).         Modified
      nucleobases include other synthetic and natural nucleobases such as 5-methyleytosine (5-me-C
 25   or m5c), 5-hydroxymethyl cytosine, xanthine, hypoxanthine, 2-amincadenine, 6-methyl and
                                                     70

    other alkyl derivatives of adenine and guanine, 2-propyl and other alkyl derivatives of adenine
    and guanine, 2-thiouracil, 2-thiothymine and 2-thiocytosine, 5-halouracil and cytosine, 5
    propynyl uracil and cytosine, 6-azo uracil, cytosine and thymine, 5-uracil (pseudouracil), 4
    thiouracil, 8-halo, 8-amino, 8-thiol, 8-thioalkyl, 8-hydroxyl and other 8-substituted adenines
 5  and guanines, 5-halo particularly 5-bromo, 5-trifluoromethyl and other 5-substituted uracils
    and cytosines, 7-methylguanine and 7-methyladenine, 8-azaguanine and 8-azaadenine, 7
    deazaguanine      and 7-deazaadenine     and 3-deazaguanine      and 3-deazaadenine.      Further
    nucleobases include those disclosed in U.S.       Pat. No.     3,687,808, those disclosed in the
    Concise Encyclopedia Of Polymer Science And Engineering, pages 858-859 (1990),
10  Kroschwitz, J. John Wiley & Sons, those disclosed by Englisch et al. (Angewandte Chemie,
     International Edition, 30, 613-722 (1991)), and those disclosed by Sanghvi, Y. S., Chapter 15,
     Antisense Research and Applications, pages 289-302, Crooke, S.T. and Lebleu, B., ed., CRC
     Press (1993).    Certain of these nucleobases are particularly useful for increasing the binding
     affinity of the oligomeric compounds.           These include 5-substituted pyrimidines, 6
15   azapyrimidines and N-2, N-6 and 0-6 substituted purines, including 2-aminopropyladenine, 5
     propynyluracil and 5-propynylcytosine.      5-methylcytosine substitutions have been shown to
     increase nucleic acid duplex stability by 0.6-1.2 'C.     (Sanghvi, Y. S., Crooke, S. T. and
     Lebleu, B., eds., Antisense Research and Applications, CRC Press, Boca Raton, pages 276-278
      (1993)) and are presently preferred base substitutions, even more particularly when combined
20    with 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar modifications.
              In another aspect, it is contemplated that the modification of the oligonucleotides
      involves chemically linking to the oligonucleotide one or more moieties or conjugates which
      enhance the activity, cellular distribution or cellular uptake of the oligonucleotide.      Such
      moieties include but are not limited to lipid moieties such as a cholesterol moiety (Letsinger et
 25   al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86, 6553-6556 (1989)), cholic acid (Manoharan et al., Bioorg.
                                                     71

   Med. Chem. Lett. 4, 1053-1059 (1994)), a thioether, e.g., hexyl-S-tritylthiol (Manoharan et
   al., Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 660, 306-309; Manoharan et al., Bioorg (1992). Med. Chem. Let.
   3, 2765-2770 (1993)), a thiocholesterol (Oberhauser et al., Nucl. Acids Res., 20, 533-538
   (1992)), an aliphatic chain, e.g., dodecandiol or undecyl residues (Saison-Behmoaras et al.,
 5 EMBO J.         10, 1111-1118 (1991); Kabanov et al., FEBS Lett.          259, 327-330 (1990);
   Svinarchuk et al., Biochimie 75, 49-54 (1993)), a phospholipid, e.g., di-hexadecyl-rac-glycerol
   or triethylammonium 1,2-di-0-hexadecyl-rac-glycero-3-H-phosphonate          (Manoharan et al.,
   Tetrahedron Lett.      36, 3651-3654 (1995); Shea et al., Nucl. Acids Res.        18, 3777-3783
   (1990)), a polyamine or a polyethylene glycol chain (Manoharan et al., Nucleosides &
10 Nucleotides 14, 969-973 (1995)), or adamantane acetic acid (Manoharan et al., Tetrahedron
   Lett. 36, 3651-3654 (1995)), a palmityl moiety (Mishra et al., Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1264,
    229-237 (1995)),     or an octadecylamine or hexylamino-carbonyl-oxycholesterol           moiety
    (Crooke et al., J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 277, 923-937 (1996)).
             Also contemplated are the use of oligonucleotides which are chimeric oligonucleotides.
15  "Chimeric"     oligonucleotides  or  "chimeras,"    in the   context of this invention,        are
    oligonucleotides which contain two or more chemically distinct regions, each made up of at
    least one nucleotide. These oligonucleotides typically contain at least one region wherein the
    oligonucleotide is modified so as to confer upon the oligonucleotide increased resistance to
     nuclease degradation, increased cellular uptake, and/or increased binding affinity for the target
20   nucleic acid. An additional region of the oligonucleotide may serve as a substrate for enzymes
     capable of cleaving RNA:DNA or RNA:RNA hybrids. By way of example, RNase H is a
     cellular endonuclease which cleaves the RNA strand of an RNA:DNA duplex. Activation of
     RNase H, therefore, results in cleavage of the RNA target, thereby greatly enhancing the
     efficiency of antisense inhibition of gene expression.    Cleavage of the RNA target can be
25   routinely detected by gel electrophoresis        and, if necessary, associated nucleic acid
                                                    72

    hybridization techniques known in the art. This RNAse H-mediated cleavage of the RNA
    target is distinct from the use of ribozymes to cleave nucleic acids.
              Examples of chimeric oligonucleotides include but are not limited to "gapmers," in
    which three distinct regions are present, normally with a central region flanked by two regions
 5  which are chemically equivalent to each other but distinct from the gap. A preferred example
     of a gapmer is an oligonucleotide in which a central portion (the "gap") of the oligonucleotide
     serves as a substrate for RNase H and is preferably composed of 2'-deoxynucleotides, while
     the flanking portions (the 5' and 3' "wings") are modified to have greater affinity for the target
     RNA molecule but are unable to support nuclease activity (e.g. fluoro- or 2'-O-methoxyethyl
10   substituted).    Chimeric oligonucleotides are not limited to those with modifications on the
     sugar, but may also include oligonucleosides or oligonucleotides with modified backbones,
     e.g., with regions of phosphorothioate (P = S) and phosphodiester (P = 0) backbone linkages
      or with regions of MMI and P = S backbone linkages. Other chimeras include "wingmers,"
      also known in the art as "hemimers," that is, oligonucleotides with two distinct regions. In a
15    preferred example of a wingmer, the 5' portion of the oligonucleotide serves as a substrate for
      RNase H and is preferably composed of 2'-deoxynucleotides, whereas the 3' portion is
      modified in such a fashion so as to have greater affinity for the target RNA molecule but is
      unable to support nuclease activity (e.g., 2'-fluoro- or 2'-O-methoxyethyl- substituted), or vice
      versa. In one embodiment, the oligonucleotides of the present invention contain a 2'-0
20    methoxyethyl (2'--O--CH2 CH2 OCH3) modification on the sugar moiety of at least one
      nucleotide. This modification has been shown to increase both affinity of the oligonucleotide
      for its target and nuclease resistance of the oligonucleotide. According to the invention, one, a
      plurality, or all of the nucleotide subunits of the oligonucleotides may bear a 2'-0
      methoxyethyl (--O--CH2 CH2 OCH3) modification. Oligonucleotides comprising a plurality
 25    of nucleotide subunits having a 2'-O-methoxyethyl modification can have such a modification
                                                        73

    on any of the nucleotide subunits within the oligonucleotide, and may be chimeric
    oligonucleotides.       Aside from or in addition         to 21-0-methoxyethyl     modifications,
    oligonucleotides containing other modifications which enhance antisense efficacy, potency or
    target affinity are also contemplated.
 5            The present invention also provides polynucleotides (for example, DNA, RNA, PNA or
    the like) that bind to double-stranded or duplex connexin nucleic acids (for example, in a
    folded region of the connexin RNA or in the connexin gene), forming a triple helix containing,
     or "triplex" nucleic acid. Triple helix formation results in inhibition of connexin expression
     by, for example, preventing transcription of the connexin gene, thus reducing or eliminating
10   connexin activity in a cell. Without intending to be bound by any particular mechanism, it is
     believed that triple helix pairing compromises the ability of the double helix to open
     sufficiently for the binding of polymerases, transcription factors, or regulatory molecules to
     occur.
               Triplex oligo- and polynucleotides are constructed using the base-pairing rules of triple
15   helix formation (see, for example, Cheng et al., J. Biol. Chem. 263: 15110 (1988); Ferrin
     and Camerini-Otero, Science 354:1494 (1991); Ramdas et al., J. Biol. Chem. 264:17395
     (1989); Strobel et al., Science 254:1639 (1991); and Rigas et al., Proc. Nati. Acad. Sci.
     U.S.A.      83: 9591 (1986)) and the connexin mRNA and/or gene sequence.            Typically, the
     triplex-forming oligonucleotides comprise a specific sequence of from about 10 to about 25
20    nucleotides or longer "complementary" to a specific sequence in the connexin RNA or gene
      (i.e., large enough to form a stable triple helix, but small enough, depending on the mode of
      delivery, to administer in vivo, if desired). In this context, "complementary" means able to
      form a stable triple helix.      In one embodiment, oligonucleotides are designed to bind
      specifically to the regulatory regions of the connexin gene (for example, the connexin 5'
 25   flanking sequence, promoters, and enhancers) or to the transcription initiation site, (for
                                                      74

    example, between -10 and +10 from the transcription initiation site). For a review of recent
    therapeutic advances using triplex DNA, see Gee et al., in Huber and Carr, 1994, Molecular
    and Inmunologic Approaches, Futura Publishing Co, Mt Kisco NY and Rininsland et al.,
    Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94:5854 (1997).
 5            The present invention also provides ribozymes useful for inhibition of connexin
    activity. The ribozymes bind and specifically cleave and inactivate connexin mRNA. Useful
    ribozymes can comprise 5'- and 3'-terminal sequences complementary to the connexin mRNA
     and can be engineered by one of skill on the basis of the connexin mRNA sequence. It is
     contemplated that ribozymes provided herein include those having characteristics of group I
10   intron ribozymes (Cech, Biotechnology 13:323 (1995)) and others of hammerhead ribozymes
     (Edgington, Biotechnology 10:256 (1992)).
               Ribozymes include those having cleavage sites such as GUA, GUU and GUC. Short
     RNA oligonucleotides between 15 and 20 ribonucleotides in length corresponding to the region
     of the target connexin gene containing the cleavage site can be evaluated for secondary
15    structural features that may render the oligonucleotide more desirable.         The suitability of
      cleavage sites may also be evaluated by testing accessibility to hybridization with
      complementary oligonucleotides using ribonuclease protection assays, or by testing for in vitro
      ribozyme activity in accordance with standard procedures known in the art.
               Further contemplated are antisense compounds in which antisense and ribozyme
20    functions can be combined in a single oligonucleotide. Moreover, ribozymes can comprise one
      or more modified nucleotides or modified linkages between nucleotides, as described above in
       conjunction with the description of illustrative antisense oligonucleotides provided herein.
               The present invention also provides polynucleotides useful for inhibition of connexin
       activity by methods such as RNA interference (RNAi). This and other techniques of gene
 25    suppression are well known in the art.        A review of this technique is found in Science
                                                        75

    288:1370-1372 (2000). RNAi operates on a post-transcriptional level and is sequence specific.
    The process comprises introduction of RNA with partial or fully double-stranded character, or
    precursors of or able to encode such RNA into the cell or into the extracellular environment.
                     As described by Fire et al., U.S. Patent No. 6,506,559, the RNA may comprise
 5  one or more strands of polymerized ribonucleotide.         The double-stranded structure may be
    formed by a single self-complementary RNA strand or two complementary RNA strands. The
    RNA may include modifications to either the phosphate-sugar backbone or the nucleosides.
    RNA duplex formation may be initiated either inside or outside the cell.
             Studies have demonstrated that one or more ribonucleases specifically bind to and
10   cleave double-stranded RNA into short fragments. The ribonuclease(s) remains associated with
    these fragments, which in turn specifically bind to complementary mRNA, i.e., specifically
     bind to the transcribed mRNA strand for the connexin gene. The mRNA for the connexin gene
     is also degraded by the ribonuclease(s) into short fragments, thereby obviating translation and
     expression of the connexin gene, and so inhibiting connexin activity. Additionally, an RNA
15   polymerase may act to facilitate the synthesis of numerous copies of the short fragments, which
     exponentially increases the efficiency of the system. A unique feature of this gene suppression
     pathway is that silencing is not limited to the cells where it is initiated. The gene-silencing
     effects may be disseminated to other parts of an organism and even transmitted through the
     germ line to several generations.
20            In   one   aspect,  the  double-stranded     (ds)RNA-dependent     gene   specific  post
     transcriptional silencing strategy of RNAi involves the use of short interfering RNAs (siRNA).
     The use of the general RNAi approach is subject to certain limitations, including the
     nonspecific antiviral defense mechanism in mammalian cells activated in response to long
      dsRNA molecules (Gil J, Esteban M, "Induction of apoptosis by the dsRNA-dependent protein
 25   kinase (PKR): Mechanisms of action". Apoptosis 2000, 5:107-114). Advances in the field
                                                      76

    have been made with the demonstration that synthetic duplexes of 21 nucleotide RNAs could
    mediate gene specific RNAi in mammalian cells without invoking generic antiviral defense
    mechanisms (Elbashir S, et al., "Duplexes of 21 -nucleotide RNAs mediate RNA interference in
    cultured mammalian cells". Nature, 411:494-498 (2001); Caplen N. et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci,
 5  98:9742-9747 (2001)). Thus, siRNAs are increasingly being recognized as powerful tools for
    gene-specific modulation.
              As described herein, RNAi includes to a group of related gene-silencing mechanisms
    sharing many common biochemical components in which the terminal effector molecule is for
    example, but not limited to, a small 21-23-nucleotide antisense RNA. One mechanism uses a
10   relatively long, dsRNA 'trigger; which is processed by the cellular enzyme Dicer into short, for
     example, but not limited to, 21-23-nucleotide dsRNAs, referred to as siRNAs. The strand of
     the siRNA complementary to the target RNA becomes incorporated into a multi-protein
     complex termed the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), where it serves as a guide for
     endonucleolytic cleavage of the mRNA strand within the target site. This leads to degradation
15   of the entire mRNA; the antisense siRNA can then be recycled. In lower organisms, RNA
     dependent RNA polymerase also uses the annealed guide siRNA as a primer, generating more
      dsRNA front the target, which serves in turn as a Dicer substrate, generating more siRNAs and
      amplifying the siRNA signal. This pathway is commonly used as a viral defense mechanism in
      plants.
20             As described herein, the siRNA may consist of two separate, annealed single strands of
      for example, but not limited to, 21-23 nucleotides, where the terminal two 3"-nucleotides are
      unpaired (3" overhang). Alternatively, the siRNA may be in the form of a single stem-loop,
      often referred to as a short hairpin RNA (shRNA). Typically, but not always, the antisense
      strand of shRNAs is also completely complementary to the sense partner strand of the
 25   si/shRNA.
                                                    77

              In mammalian cells, long dsRNAs (usually greater than 30 nucleotides in length) trigger
    the interferon pathway, activating protein kinase R and 2; 5"-oligoadenylate synthetase.
    Activation of the interferon pathway can lead to global downregulation of translation as well as
    global RNA degradation. However, shorter siRNAs exogenously introduced into mammalian
 5  cells have been reported to bypass the interferon pathway.
              The siRNA antisense product can also be derived from endogenous microRNAs. In
    human cells, regardless of the initial form (siRNAs and microRNAs) or processing pathway, a
     final mature for example, but not limited to, 21-23-nucleotide antisense RNA that is
     completely homologous to the mRNA will direct mRNA cleavage. In general, the effect of
10   mismatches between siRNAs and target sites can vary from almost none to complete
     abrogation of activity, for reasons that are only partially understood; however, in at least one
     case, partial homology resulted in mRNA translation inhibition. In general, siRNA with target
     mismatches designed to mimic a prototypical microRNA-target interaction can mediate
      varying degrees of translational repression, depending on both the specific interaction and the
15    number of target sites in the mRNA. RNAi can be activated by either exogenous delivery of
      preformed siRNAs or via promoter-based expression of siRNAs or shRNAs.
               Short interfering RNAs (siRNA) can be chemically synthesized or generated by DNA
      based vectors systems. In general, this involves transcription of short hairpin (sh)RNAs that
      are efficiently processed to form siRNAs within cells (Paddison P, Caudy A, Hannon G: Stable
20    suppression of gene expression by RNAi in mammalian cells. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
      99:1443-1448 (2002); Paddison P, Caudy A, Bernstein E, Hannon G, Conklin D: Short hairpin
      RNAs (shRNAs) induce sequence-specific silencing in mammalian cells.               Genes & Dev
       16:948-958 (2002); Sui G, et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci 8:5515-5520 (2002); Brummelkamp T, et
       al., Science 296:550-553 (2002)). Therefore, in the context, siRNAs can be employed as an
 25    effective strategy for the tissue-specific targeting and modulation of gene expression.
                                                         78

            Oligonucleotides used in accordance with this invention may be conveniently and
   routinely made through the well-known technique of solid phase synthesis. Equipment for
   such synthesis is sold by several vendors known in the art. Any other means for such synthesis
   may also be employed; the actual synthesis of the oligonucleotides is well recognized in the
 5 art.   It is well known to use similar techniques to prepare oligonucleotides such as the
   phosphorothioates and 2'-alkoxy or 21-alkoxyalkoxy derivatives, including 2'-O-methoxyethyl
   oligonucleotides (Martin, P. Helv. Chim. Acta 78, 486-504 (1995)). It is also well known to
   use similar techniques and commercially available modified amidites and controlled-pore glass
    (CPG) products such as biotin, fluorescein, acridine or psoralen-modified amidites and/or CPG
10  (available from Glen Research, Sterling, Va.) to synthesize fluorescently labeled, biotinylated
    or other conjugated oligonucleotides.
     Methods
             In another aspect, the invention includes methods of treating a subject (e.g. patient),
    target organ, target tissue, or target cell by administering compounds provided herein.
15           Certain embodiments are directed to methods for treating a subject, target organ, target
    tissue, or target cell with a vascular disorder comprising administering to a subject an antisense
     compound, mimetic peptide, or other compound provided herein capable of inhibiting the
     expression, formation, or activity of a connexin hemichannel. Vascular disorders include, for
     example, any disorder or condition associated with arteries, blood vessels, and the vascular
20   and/or cardiovascular system, including disorder or conditions in associated organs or tissues.
     Representative examples include, without limitation, atherosclerosis, microvascular disorders,
     macrovascular disorders, stroke, cerebrovascular disease (cerebral ischemia), thromboses,
     vascular injuries resulting from trauma (e.g. subcutaneous wounds, stent insertion, restenosis,
     or angioplasty), vascular damage resulting from elevated levels of glucose (diabetes), diabetic
                                                      79

   retinopathy, vascular diseases of the extremities, organ ischemia, and endothelial cell
   disruption.
            Other embodiments are directed to methods of treating an inflammatory disorder
   comprising administering to a subject, target organ, target tissue, or target cell an antisense
 5 compound, mimetic peptide, or other compound provided herein capable of inhibiting the
    expression, formation, or activity of a connexin hemichannel.
             Other embodiments are directed to methods for treating a subject , target organ, target
    tissue, or target cell in connection with a transplant or grafting procedure comprising
    administration to said patient an antisense compound, mimetic peptide, or other compound
10  provided herein capable of inhibiting the expression, formation or activity of a connexin
    hemichannel and inhibiting or preventing tissue edema associated with said transplant or
    grafting procedure.
             Other embodiments are directed to methods of treating myocardial infarction and its
     associated heart diseases comprising administering to a subject an antisense compound,
15   mimetic peptide, or other compound provided herein capable of inhibiting the expression,
     formation, or activity of a connexin hemichannel.
             Still other embodiments are directed to methods of treating coronary artery disease
     comprising administering to a subject, target organ, target tissue, or target cell an antisense
     compound, mimetic peptide, or other compound provided herein capable of inhibiting the
20   expression, formation, or activity of a connexin hemichannel.
             Other embodiments are directed to methods of treating damage associated with
      ischemia, including initial ischemic damage and a subsequent reperfusion injury.
              Other embodiments are directed to methods of treating myocardial infarction and its
      associated heart diseases comprising by co-administering to a subject an antisense compound,
25    mimetic peptide, or other compound provided herein capable of inhibiting the expression,
                                                     80

    formation, or activity of a connexin hemichannel in combination with other known therapeutic
    approaches or procedures for the treatment of ischemic conditions associated with the heart,
    including those described in Baker D.W. et al. (ACC/AHA Guidelines for the Evaluation and
    Management of Chronic Heart Failure in the Adult, 2001; American College of Cardiology
 5  and the American Heart Association, the contents of which is hereby incorporated by
    reference).     Such procedures include, for example, cardiac transplantation, surgical and
    mechanical approaches, mitral valve repair or replacement for hemodynamic and clinical
     improvements, extra-corporeal devices for circulatory support, left ventricular assist devices,
     mechanical decompression, left ventriculectomy (Batista procedure), cardiomyoplasty and a
10   variant of the aneurysmectomy procedure for the management of patients with ischemic
     cardiomyopathy.
               Implants and other surgical or medical devices may be coated with (or otherwise
     adapted to release) agents of the invention (e.g. anti-connexin compounds and compositions)
      in a variety of manners, including for example: (a) by directly affixing to the implant or device
15    an anti-connexin agent or composition (e.g. by either spraying the implant or device with a
      polymer/drug film, or by dipping the implant or device into a polymer/drug solution, or by
      other covalent or noncovalent means); (b) by coating the implant or device with a substance
      such as a hydrogel which will in turn absorb the anti-connexin composition (or anti-connexin
      factor above); (c) by interweaving anti-connexin composition coated thread (or the polymer
20     itself formed into a thread) into the implant or device; (d) by inserting the implant or device
       into a sleeve or mesh which is comprised of or coated with an anti-connexin composition; (e)
       constructing the implant or device itself with an anti- connexin agent or composition; or (f) by
       otherwise adapting the implant or device to release the anti-connexin agent. Within preferred
       embodiments of the invention, the composition should firmly adhere to the implant or device
 25    during storage and at the time of insertion. The anti- connexin agent or composition should
                                                       81

    also preferably not degrade during storage, prior to insertion, or when warmed to body
    temperature after insertion inside the body (if this is required). In addition, it should preferably
    coat the implant or device smoothly and evenly, with a uniform distribution of anti-connexin
    agent, while not changing the stent contour. Within preferred embodiments of the invention,
 5  the anti- connexin agent or composition should provide a uniform, predictable, prolonged
    release of the anti-connexin factor into the tissue surrounding the implant or device once it has
    been deployed. For vascular stents, in addition to the above properties, the composition should
    not render the stent thrombogenic (causing blood clots to form), or en cause significant
     turbulence in blood flow (more than the stent itself would be expected to cause if it was
10   uncoated).
              The anti-connexin compounds, compositions, and methods provided herein can be used
     in a variety of procedures that utilize of implants, medical and surgical devices, and the like.
     In one aspect, implants, surgical devices or stents, are coated with or otherwise constructed to
      contain and/or release any of the anti- connexin agents provided herein.            Representative
15    examples include cardiovascular devices (e.g., implantable venous catheters, venous ports,
      tunneled venous catheters, chronic infusion lines or ports, including hepatic artery infusion
      catheters, pacemaker wires, implantable defibrillators); neurologic/neurosurgical devices (e.g.,
      ventricular peritoneal shunts, ventricular atrial shunts, nerve stimulator devices, dural patches
      and implants to prevent epidural fibrosis post-laminectomy,              devices for continuous
20     subarachnoid infusions); gastrointestinal devices (e.g., chronic indwelling catheters, feeding
      tubes, and shunts) ophthalmologic implants (e.g., multino implants and other implants for
       neovascular glaucoma, drug eluting contact lenses for pterygiums, splints for failed
       dacrocystalrhinostomy, drug eluting contact lenses for corneal neovascularity, implants for
       diabetic retinopathy,   drug eluting contact lenses for high risk corneal transplants);
 25    otolaryngology devices (e.g., ossicular implants, Eustachian tube splints or stents for glue ear
                                                       82

    or chronic otitis as an alternative to transtempanic drains); plastic surgery implants (e.g.,
    prevention of fibrous contracture in response to gel- or saline-containing breast implants in the
    subpectoral or subglandular approaches or post-mastectomy, or chin implants), and orthopedic
    implants (e.g., cemented orthopedic prostheses).
 5          An antisense compound, mimetic peptide, or other compound provided herein can be
    administered at a predetermined time in certain embodiments. In certain embodiments, an
    antisense connexin hemichannel expression, formation, or activity is inhibited in endothelial
    cells. In certain embodiments, a subject may be treated for a vascular disorder comprising a
    stroke. In certain embodiments, a subject may be treated for a vascular disorder comprising an
10  ischemia. Such an ischemia may be, for example, a tissue ischemia, a myocardial ischemia, or
    a cerebral ischemia. In certain embodiments, a subject treated herein is at risk of loss of
    neurological function by ischemia.      In other embodiments, a subject may be treated for a
     vascular disorder comprising treating or ameliorating cell death or degeneration in the central
     or peripheral nervous system that is caused by an ischemia. In certain embodiments, a subject
15   may treated for a vascular disorder where an antisense compound, mimetic peptide, or other
     compound provided herein is administered in connection with a vascular or coronary
     procedure performed on a subject. In other embodiments, an antisense compound, mimetic
     peptide, or other compound provided herein is administered during said vascular or coronary
     procedure.
20           Administration of compounds provided herein may be before or subsequent to a
     selected time point. The "selected time point" may, for example, correspond to the onset of a
     disorder or condition such as a cardiovascular disorder, inflammation, a vascular disorder, or
      an ischemic event, or with performing a medical procedure such as a vascular or coronary
     procedure. Compounds provided herein may (e.g. antisense compounds, mimetic peptide, etc.)
 25   for example, may be administered before, coincident with, or after a selected time point. In
                                                     83

   certain embodiments, compounds are administered immediately and up to about 24 hours
   subsequent to a selected time point. In other embodiments, compounds are administered
   within about 1 hour after a selected time point, within about 2 hours after selected time point,
   within about 3 hours after a selected time point, within about 4 hours after a selected time
 5 point, within about 5 hours after a selected time point, within about 6 hours after a selected
   time point, within about 8 hours after a selected time point, within about 10 hours after a
   selected time point, within about 12 hours after a selected time point, within about 14 hours
   after a selected time point, within about 16 hours after a selected time point, within about 20
   hours after a selected time point, or within about 24 hours after a selected time point. In
10 certain embodiments, a compound provided herein is administered in connection with a heart
    or other surgery performed on a patient. "Selected time points," as referred to herein, include a
   time of injury, a time of performing a procedure, e.g., a heart or vascular procedured, etc. In
    certain other embodiments, a compound provided herein is administered in connection with a
    medical device for performing a vascular procedure.
15           In certain embodiments, the vascular disorder treated is selected from one or more of
    ischemic stroke, transient ischemic attack, intracerebral hemorage, subarachnoid hemorage,
    thromboembolic        stroke, venous   thrombosis,   pulmonary      embolism,   embolic    stroke,
    cerebrovascular disorder, peripheral occlusive arterial disease, arteriovenous malformation,
    and an aneurysm.
20            In certain embodiments, the vascular disorder treated is associated with one or more of
    coronary heart       disease, coronary vascular disorder,      atherosclerotic vascular disease,
     athersclerotic plaque rupture, and/or thromboembolic, a vascular disorder associated with
     hypertension, myocardial infarction, angina, ischemic heart disease, aortic disorder, peripheral
     arterial diseases, fibromuscular dysplasia, moyamo disease, and thromboangiitis.
                                                    84

              In certain embodiments, a inflammatory disorder treated is selected from one or more
    of arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), inflammation, destruction or damage of joints,
    inflammatory disorder, grave's disease, hashimoto's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic
    lupus erythematosus, sjogrens syndrome, immune thrombocytopenic purpura, multiple
 5  sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, scleroderma, psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease, crohn's
    disease, ulcerative colitis, sepsis and septic shock, and autoimmune diseases of the digestive
    system.
               In certain other embodiments, a subject, a target organ, a target tissue, or a target cell is
    treated for a condition that is associated with one or more of hemostatis, thrombosis,
10   fibrinolysis, cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, endocrine disorders affecting the heart,
     cardiovascular disease associated with pregnancy, rheumatic fever, cardiovascular disorders
     associated with HIV-infection, hematological and oncological disorders associated with heart
     disease, neurological disorders associated with heart disease, and renal disorders associated
     with heart disease.
15              In certain other embodiments, a subject, a target organ, a target tissue, or a target cell is
      treated in association with a transplant or grafting procedure associated with heart failure,
      congenital heart disease, acquired heart disease in children, valvular heart disease, infective
      endocarditis, cardiomypopathy, tumors of the heart, pericardial heart disease, traumatic heart
      disease, pulmonary embolism, pulmonary hypertension, cor pulmonale, and athletic heart
20    syndrome, peripheral arterial circulation disorder, vascular disorder affecting an organ system,
      vascular disorder affecting the central nervous system, vascular disorder affecting the brain,
       vascular disorder affecting the retina, vascular disorder affecting the kidney, vascular disorder
       affecting and nerves, microvascular disorder, and macrovascular disorder. The subject can be
       treated with a transplant or grafting procedure associated selected from one or more of a heart
 25    transplant, kidney transplant, liver transplant, lung transplant, pancreatic transplant, intestinal
                                                        85

   transplant, or a combined organ transplant. The subject can be treated with a transplant or
   grafting procedure involves one or more of eye tissue, skin, heart valves, bones, tendons,
   veins, ligaments, bone marrow transplants, dental or gum tissue, grafting or implantation
   associated with cosmetic surgery, grafting or implantation associated with a hip or joint
 5 replacement procedure, and tissue grafting or implants involving stem cells.
             While not intending being bound by or limited to a particular mechanism, in certain
    embodiments a subject, target organ, target tissue, or target cell is treated by administration of
    an anti-connexin compound that is capable of to binding or modulating a connexon
    (hemichannel) for the purpose of achieving a desired effect, including for example one or more
10  of the following: for the prevention of oedema in the spinal cord following ischaemia or
    trauma, for the prevention of blood vessel wall degradation in tissues following ischaemia or
    trauma (e.g. in brain, optic nerve, spinal cord and heart), for the treatment of inflammatory
    arthritis and other inflammatory disorders in which oedema and inflammation are symptomatic
    or in which blood vessel die back occurs as a result of persistent inflammation, for the
15  treatment of sub-acute or chronic wounds to the cornea of the eye in which prevention of blood
    vessel die back allows recovery from limbal        ischaemia, for the treatment of sub-acute or
     chronic wounds to the cornea of the eye as a means to trigger re-epithelialisation, for the
    treatment of chemical burns in the eye in order to trigger epithelial recovery and to bring about
     recovery from sub-acute limbal ischaemia, for the treatment of sub-acute or chronic skin
20   wounds or diabetic ulcers in which prevention of continued blood vessel die back will allow
     recovery from tissue ischaemia, for the treatment of chronic skin wounds or diabetic ulcers in
     which continued expression of connexin 43 at the leading edge prevents re-epithelialisation,
     for the treatment of perinatal ischaemia using connexin mimetic peptides delivered directly to
     ventricles of the brain or via spinal column /cord, for the inhibition or prevention of oedema
25   following perinatal ischaemia using connexin mimetic peptides delivered directly to ventricles
                                                    86

   of the brain or via spinal column /cord, as a treatment for perinatal ischaemia using connexin
   mimetic peptides delivered systemically, as a treatment for stroke or CNS ischaemia using
   connexin mimetic peptides delivered directly to ventricles of the brain or via spinal column
   /cord, as a treatment for stroke or CNS ischaemia using connexin mimetic peptides delivered
 5 systemically, for the prevention of epileptiform activity in the brain following ischaemia, for
   the prevention of epileptiform activity in the brain (e.g. epilepsy), for the prevention of tissue
   oedema using connexon mimetic peptides or connexin specific antisense polynucleotides,
   and/or for the prevention of lesion spread, oedema (and rejection) with reperfusion following,
   organ transplantation.
10          In another aspect, compounds of the invention are administered in an amount desired to
   modulate the expression, formation or activity of a connexin, hemichannel, or a gap junction.
            While not intending to be bound by or limited to any mechanism and without intending
   any limitation, it is believed that in certain embodiments a target connexin hemichannel is
   located on a cell cytoplasmic membrane and it may be desirable to effect an inhibition of
15 undesired transmission of molecules from the cytoplasm of said cell into an extracellular
    space. Again, without intending on being limited to any particular mechanism, in certain
    embodiments it may be desirable to administer a compound provided herein capable of
    inhibiting or preventing progressive infarction and reperfusion injury in the heart by
    maintaining blood vessel endothelial cell integrity, for promoting reperfusion of blood to
20  damaged tissue in an amount effective to enhance cell survival and/or tissue repair, for
    maintaining the blood brain barrier by inhibiting endothelial cell disruption subsequent to a
    stroke or injury to the central nervous system, for maintenance of vascular integrity subsequent
    to tissue damage, or for inhibiting or preventing tissue edema associated with a transplant or
    grafting procedure.
25
                                                    87

   Pharmaceutical Compositions
           In another aspect, the invention includes pharmaceutical compositions comprising
   compounds of the invention, including antisense compounds and mimetic peptides.
           The antisense compounds provided herein may also include bioequivalent compounds,
 5 including pharniaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs. This is intended to encompass any
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts, esters, or salts of such esters, or any other compound which,
   upon administration to an animal including a human, is capable of providing (directly or
   indirectly) the biologically active metabolite or residue thereof. Peptides, for example, can be
   altered to enhance their stability in the body. For example synthetic side chains can be added
10 which link to each other resulting in the peptide becoming circular. This circularisation can
   also be accomplished by linking the N- and C-termini together forming a pro-drug which, after
   insertion into the body, is made linear by protease activity. Accordingly, for example, the
   disclosure is also drawn to pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the nucleic acids and prodrugs
   of such nucleic acids.         "Pharmaceutically acceptable salts" are physiologically and
15 pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the nucleic acids provided herein: i.e., salts that retain the
   desired biological activity of the parent compound and do not impart undesired toxicological
   effects thereto (see, for example, Berge et al., J. ofPharmaSci. 66, 1-19 (1977)).
           Peptides or variants thereof, can be synthesized in vitro, e.g., by the solid phase peptide
   synthetic method or by enzyme catalyzed peptide synthesis or with the aid of recombinant
20 DNA technology. Solid phase peptide synthetic method is an established and widely used
   method, which is described in references such as the following: Stewart et al., Solid Phase
   Peptide Synthesis, W. H. Freeman Co., San Francisco (1969); Merrifield, J Am. Chem. Soc. 85
   2149 (1963); Meienhofer in "Hormonal Proteins and Peptides," ed.; C.H. Li, Vol.2 (Academic
   Press, 1973), pp.48-267; and Bavaay and Merrifield, "The Peptides," eds. E. Gross and F.
25 Meienhofer, Vol.2 (Academic Press, 1980) pp.3-285. These peptides can be further purified
                                                     88

   by fractionation on immunoaffinity or ion-exchange columns; ethanol precipitation; reverse
   phase HPLC; chromatography on silica or on an anion-exchange resin such as DEAE;
   chromatofocusing; SDS-PAGE; ammonium sulfate precipitation; gel filtration using, for
   example, Sephadex G-75; ligand affinity chromatography; or crystallization or precipitation
 5 from non-polar solvent or nonpolar/polar solvent mixtures. Purification by crystallization or
   precipitation is preferred.
            The pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention may include, as optional
   ingredients, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, diluents, solubilizing or emulsifying agents,
   and salts of the type that are available in the art. Examples of such substances include normal
10 saline solutions such as physiologically buffered saline solutions and water. Specific non
   limiting examples of the carriers and/or diluents that are useful in the pharmaceutical
   formulations of the present invention include water and physiologically acceptable buffered
   saline solutions such as phosphate buffered saline solutions pH 7.0-8.0. Suitable
   pharmaceutical carriers include, but are not limited to sterile water, salt solutions (such as
15 Ringer's solution), alcohols, polyethylene glycols, gelatin, carbohydrates such as lactose,
   amylose or starch, magnesium stearate, talc, silicic acid, viscous paraffin, fatty acid esters,
   hydroxymethylcellulose, polyvinyl pyrolidone, etc. The pharmaceutical preparations can be
   sterilized and desired, mixed with auxiliary agents, e.g., lubricants, preservatives, stabilizers,
   wetting agents, emulsiers, salts for influencing osmotic pressure, buffers, coloring, and/or
20 aromatic substances and the like which do not deleteriously react with the active compounds.
   They can also be combined where desired with other active substances, e.g., enzyme inhibitors,
   to reduce metabolic degradation.
            Salts of carboxyl groups of a peptide or peptide variant of the invention may be
   prepared in the usual manner by contacting the peptide with one or more equivalents of a
25 desired base such as, for example, a metallic hydroxide base, e.g., sodium hydroxide; a metal
                                                      89

   carbonate or bicarbonate base such as, for example, sodium carbonate or sodium bicarbonate;
   or an amine base such as, for example, triethylamine, triethanolamine, and the like.
           N-acyl derivatives of an amino group of the peptide or peptide variants may be
   prepared by utilizing an N-acyl protected amino acid for the final condensation, or by acylating
 5 a protected or unprotected peptide. O-acyl derivatives may be prepared, for example, by
   acylation of a free hydroxy peptide or peptide resin. Either acylation may be carried out using
   standard acylating reagents such as acyl halides, anhydrides, acyl imidazoles, and the like.
   Both N-acylation and O-acylation may be carried out together, if desired.
           Acid addition salts of the peptide or variant peptide, or of amino residues of the peptide
10 or variant peptide, may be prepared by contacting the peptide or amine with one or more
   equivalents of the desired inorganic or organic acid, such as, for example, hydrochloric acid.
   Esters of carboxyl groups of the peptides may also be prepared by any of the usual methods
   known in the art.
           For oligonucleotides, examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not
15 limited to (a) salts formed with cations such as sodium, potassium, ammonium, magnesium,
   calcium, polyamines such as spermine and spermidine, etc.; (b) acid addition salts formed with
   inorganic acids, for example hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric
   acid, nitric acid and the like; (c) salts formed with organic acids such as, for example, acetic
   acid, oxalic acid, tartaric acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, gluconic acid, citric
20 acid, malic acid, ascorbic acid, benzoic acid, tannic acid, palmitic acid, alginic acid,
   polyglutamic acid, naphthalenesulfonic acid, methanesulfonic acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid,
   naphthalenedisulfonic acid, polygalacturonic acid, and the like; and (d) salts formed from
   elemental anions such as chlorine, bromine, and iodine.
           Oligonucleotides provided herein may additionally or alternatively be prepared to be
25 delivered in a "prodrug" form.       The term "prodrug" indicates a therapeutic agent that is
                                                    90

   prepared in an inactive form that is converted to an active form (i.e., drug) within the body or
   cells thereof by the action of endogenous enzymes or other chemicals and/or conditions. In
   particular, prodrug versions of the oligonucleotides may be prepared as SATE [(S-acetyl-2
   thioethyl) phosphate] derivatives according to the methods disclosed in WO 93/24510 to
 5 Gosselin et al., published December 9, 1993.
            Compounds provided herein may be formulated in a pharmaceutical composition,
   which may include pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, thickeners, diluents, buffers,
   preservatives, surface active agents, neutral or cationic lipids, lipid complexes, liposomes,
   penetration enhancers, carrier compounds and other pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or
10 excipients and the like in addition to the oligonucleotide.
            Pharmaceutical compositions may also include one or more active ingredients such as
   interferons, antimicrobial agents, anti-inflammatory agents, anesthetics, and the like.
   Formulations for parenteral administration may include sterile aqueous solutions which may
   also contain buffers, liposomes, diluents and other suitable additives.             Pharmaceutical
15 compositions comprising the oligonucleotides provided herein may include penetration
   enhancers in order to enhance the alimentary delivery of the oligonucleotides.         Penetration
   enhancers may be classified as belonging to one of five broad categories, i.e., fatty acids, bile
   salts, chelating agents, surfactants and non-surfactants (Lee et al., Critical Reviews in
   Therapeutic Drug Carrier Systems 8, 91-192 (1991); Muranishi, Critical Reviews in
20 Therapeutic Drug Carrier Systems 7, 1-33 (1990)).        One or more penetration enhancers from
   one or more of these broad categories may be included.
            Various fatty acids and their derivatives which act as penetration enhancers include, for
   example, oleic acid, lauric acid, caprice acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, linoleic
    acid, linolenic acid, dicaprate, tricaprate, recinleate, monoolein (a k.a. 1-monooleoyl-rac
25  glycerol),   dilaurin,   caprylic  acid,    arachidonic    acid, glyceryl    1-monocaprate,      1
                                                    91

   dodecylazacycloheptan-2-one,       acylcarnitines, acylcholines, mono- and di-glycerides and
   physiologically acceptable salts thereof (i.e., oleate, laurate, caprate, myristate, palmitate,
   stearate, linoleate, etc.). Lee et al., Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug Carrier Systems page
   92 (1991); Muranishi, Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug Carrier Systems 7, 1 (1990); El
 5 Hariri et al., J. Pharm. Pharmacol. 44, 651-654 (1992)).
           The physiological roles of bile include the facilitation of dispersion and absorption of
   lipids and fat-soluble vitamins (Brunton, Chapter 38 In: Goodman & Gilman's The
   Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th Ed., Hardman et al. McGraw-Hill, New York, N.
   Y., pages 934-935 (1996)).      Various natural bile salts, and their synthetic derivatives, act as
10 penetration enhancers.      Thus, the term "bile salt" includes any of the naturally occurring
   components of bile as well as any of their synthetic derivatives.
            Complex formulations comprising one or more penetration enhancers may be used.
   For example, bile salts may be used in combination with fatty acids to make complex
   formulations.         Chelating    agents     include,  but    are  not   limited   to,   disodium
15 ethylenediaminetetraacetate     (EDTA), citric acid, salicylates (e.g., sodium salicylate, 5
   methoxysalicylate and homovanilate), N-acyl derivatives of collagen, laureth-9 and N-amino
   acyl derivatives of beta-diketones (enamines) [Lee et al., Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug
   Carrier Systems page 92 (1991); Muranishi, Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug Carrier
   Systems 7, 1-33 (1990); Buur et al., J. Control Rel.      14, 43-51 (1990)). Chelating agents have
20 the added advantage of also serving as DNase inhibitors.
            Surfactants include, for example, sodium lauryl sulfate, polyoxyethylene-9-lauryl ether
   and polyoxyethylene-20-cetyl ether (Lee et al., Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug Carrier
    Systems page 92 (1991)); and perfluorochemical emulsions, such as FC-43 (Takahashi et al.,
   J. Pharm. Phamacol. 40, 252-257 (1988)). Non-surfactants include, for example, unsaturated
25 cyclic ureas, 1-alkyl- and 1-alkenylazacyclo-alkanone derivatives (Lee et al., Critical Reviews
                                                       92

   in Therapeutic Drug Carrier Systems page 92 (1991)); and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
   agents such as diclofenac sodium, indomethacin and phenylbutazone (Yamashita et al., J.
   Pharm. Pharmacol. 39, 621-626 (1987)).
            As used herein, "carrier compound" includes a nucleic acid, or analog thereof, which is
 5 inert (i.e., does not possess biological activity per se) but is recognized as a nucleic acid by in
   vivo processes that reduce the bioavailability of a nucleic acid having biological activity by,
   for example, degrading the biologically active nucleic acid or promoting its removal from
   circulation. The coadministration of a nucleic acid and a carrier compound, typically with an
   excess of the latter substance, can result in a substantial reduction of the amount of nucleic
10 acid recovered in the liver, kidney or other extracirculatory reservoirs, presumably due to
   competition between the carrier compound and the nucleic acid for a common receptor. In
   contrast to a carrier compound, a "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" (excipient) is a
   pharmaceutically acceptable solvent, suspending agent or any other pharmacologically inert
   vehicle for delivering one or more nucleic acids to an animal.                The pharmaceutically
15 acceptable carrier may be liquid or solid and is selected with the planned manner of
   administration in mind so as to provide for the desired bulk, consistency, etc., when combined
   with a nucleic acid and the other components of a given pharmaceutical composition. Typical
   pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include, but are not limited to, binding agents (e.g.,
   pregelatinized maize starch, polyvinylpyrrolidone or hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, etc.);
20  fillers (e.g., lactose and other sugars, microcrystalline cellulose, pectin, gelatin, calcium
    sulfate, ethyl cellulose, polyacrylates or calcium hydrogen phosphate, etc); lubricants (e.g.,
    magnesium stearate, talc, silica, colloidal silicon dioxide, stearic acid, metallic stearates,
    hydrogenated vegetable oils, corn starch, polyethylene glycols, sodium benzoate, sodium
    acetate, etc.); disintegrates (e.g., starch, sodium starch glycolate, etc.); or wetting agents (e.g.,
25  sodium lauryl sulphate, etc.).
                                                      93

           The compositions provided herein may additionally contain other adjunct components
   conventionally found in pharmaceutical compositions, at their art-established usage levels.
   Thus, for example, the compositions may contain additional compatible pharmaceutically
   active materials such as, e.g., antipruritics, astringents, local anesthetics or anti-inflammatory
 5 agents, or may contain additional materials useful in physically formulating various dosage
   forms of the composition of present invention, such as dyes, flavoring agents, preservatives,
   antioxidants, opacifiers, thickening agents and stabilizers.      However, such materials, when
   added, should not unduly interfere with the biological activities of the components of the
   compositions provided herein.
10         Regardless of the method by which compounds (e.g. oligonucleotides, mimetic
   peptides, etc.) are introduced into a patient, colloidal dispersion systems may be used as
   delivery vehicles to enhance the in vivo stability of the oligonucleotides and/or to target the
   oligonucleotides to a particular organ, tissue or cell type.         Colloidal dispersion systems
   include, but are not limited to, macromolecule complexes, nanocapsules, microspheres, beads
15 and lipid-based systems including oil-in-water emulsions, micelles, mixed micelles, liposomes
   and lipid:oligonucleotide complexes of uncharacterized structure.            A preferred colloidal
   dispersion system is a plurality of liposomes. Liposomes are microscopic spheres having an
    aqueous core surrounded by one or more outer layers made up of lipids arranged in a bilayer
    configuration (see, generally, Chonn et al., Current Op. Biotech. 6, 698-708 (1995)).
20          In certain embodiments, antisense compounds             and mimetic peptides can be
    incorporated into or used in conjunction with a biodistribution directing moiety, including one
    or more polymer, to direct the biodistribution of the antisense compound, mimetic peptide, or
    other compound provided herein to the proximity of the a desired target or to allow for
    continuous release of thereof. Active agents include, for example, compounds useful for
25  increasing therapeutic efficacy, for optimizing biodistribution and bioavailability, for reducing
                                                     94

   tissue damage, for promoting healing, or for increasing patient comfort; exemplary active
   agents include vasoactive agents, anesthetics, therapeutic agents for ischemia, growth factors
   and cytokines. Alternatively, microparticulate or nanoparticulate polymeric bead dosage forms
   may be used in composition provided herein. Compounds provided herein may be used in
 5 combination with an active agent and encapsulated in a particulate dosage form with a number
   of ligand or anti-ligand molecules attached thereto.
            In this manner, mimetic peptides, antisense compounds, and other compounds provided
   here, alone or in combination with other active agents, are released at that site over time to
    provide a sustained therapeutic benefit. Sustained release dosage forms are also useful with
10  regard to other active agents useful in the practice of the present invention, such as growth
    factors, cytokines, and the like. Release of the active agent from the particulate dosage forms
    of the present invention can occur as a result of both diffusion and particulate matrix erosion.
    Biodegradation rate directly impacts active agent release kinetics.
            In certain embodiments, controlled release parenteral formulations of the mimetic
15  peptide compositions, antisense compounds, and compounds of the present invention can be
    made as implants, oily injections, or as particulate systems.       Particulate systems include
    microspheres, microparticles, microcapsules, nanocapsules, nanospheres, and nanoparticles.
    Microcapsules contain the therapeutic protein as a central core.           In microspheres the
    therapeutic is dispersed throughout the particle. Liposomes can be used for controlled release
20  as well as drug targeting of entrapped drug.
             Antisense polynucleotides may be present in a substantially isolated form. It will be
     understood that the product may be mixed with carriers or diluents which will not interfere
    with the intended purpose of the product and still be regarded as substantially isolated. A
     product may also be in a substantially purified form, in which case it will generally comprise
25   90%, e.g. at least about 95%, 98% or 99% of the polynucleotide or dry mass of the preparation.
                                                    95

           In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition of the invention, including
   antisense compounds or mimetic peptides, can be administered locally, nasally, orally,
   gastrointestinally,  intrabronchially, intravesically,   intravaginally, into the uterus, sub
   cutaneously, intramuscularly, periarticularly, intraarticularly, into the cerebrospinal fluid
 5 (ICSF), into the brain tissue (e.g. intracranial administration), into the spinal medulla, into
   wounds, intraperitoneally or intrapleurally, or systemically, e.g. intravenously, intraarterially,
   intraportally or into the organ directly, such as the heart. An intravenously administered agent
   becomes bioavailable faster than an agent administered via other routes, therefore generally
   rendering    intravenous    administered     agents   more    toxic.   Alternatively,   intraarterial
10 administration of the antisense compounds, mimetic peptides, and other compounds of the
   invention can be applied to disease targets present in organs or tissues for which supply
   arteries are accessible. Applications for intraarterial delivery include, for example, treatment
   of liver-related conditions through hepatic artery administration, brain-related conditions
   through carotid artery administration, lung-related conditions through bronchial artery
15 administration and kidney-related conditions through renal artery administration.          Thus, for
   example, in certain embodiments the compound is a peptide/polypeptide (e.g. mimetic peptide)
   for systemic delivery, and in other embodiments the compound is a peptide/polypeptide (e.g.
   mimetic peptide) for direct delivery (e.g. to the ventricles of the brain or into the spinal cord).
            For example, US patent 6,752,987 and US published app. No. 20030148968 to
20  Hammond, incorporated by reference herein, which describe in vivo delivery for heart disease,
    which can be accomplished by injection of the pharmaceutical composition into a blood vessel
    or other conduit directly supplying the myocardium or tissue. Preferably, the injection can be
    performed by administration into one or both coronary arteries or other tissue-specific arteries
    (or by a bolus injection into peripheral tissue). By way of illustration, for delivery to the
25  myocardium, such injection is preferably achieved by catheter introduced substantially
                                                     96

   (typically at least about 1 cm) within the lumen of one or both coronary arteries or one or more
   saphenous veins or internal mammary artery grafts or other conduits delivering blood to the
   myocardium.      Preferably the injection is made in both left and right coronary arteries to
   provide general distribution to all areas of the heart. To further augment the localized delivery
 5 of the peptide mimetics or peptide mimetics in combination with active agent, and to enhance
   delivery efficiency, in accordance with the present invention, one can infuse a vasoactive
   agent, preferably histamine or a histamine agonist or a vascular endothelial growth factor
   (VEGF) protein or a nitric oxide donor (e.g. sodium nitroprusside), into the tissue to be treated,
   either coincidently with or, preferably, within several minutes before, introduction of the
10 peptide mimetics or peptide mimetics in combination with active agents.
            In one aspect, methods of spinal administration include but not limited to, techniques
   of spinal injections known in the art.           General methods of intra-spinal injection or
    administration include, for example, epidural injections (including caudal block, translumbar,
    and transforaminal injections); facet joint injections (including interarticular and nerve block
15  injections); hardware injections; sacroiliac joint injections, and differential lower extremity
    injections.   With most spinal injections, a local anesthetic (numbing medication) such as, for
    example, lidocaine (or Xylocaine) or Bupivacaine (Marcaine), is co-injected into a specific
    area of the spine.
            In certain aspects, the antisense compounds or mimetic peptides can be administered
20  alone or co-administered in combination with agents used for general treatment of stroke and
    ischemia.     These include, for example, ischema stroke, which is treated by removing
    obstruction and restoring blood flow to the brain, and 2) hemorrhagic stroke, which involves
    the introduction of an obstruction to prevent rupture and bleeding of aneurysms and
    arteriovenous malformations. In one aspect, treatments for ischemic stroke can include the use
25  of clot-busters, such as tPA. Generally, tPA is administered within a three-hour window from
                                                    97

   the onset of symptoms. In another aspect, treatment may include preventative measure with
   administration of anticoagulants/antiplatelets.      Antiplatelet agents such as aspirin, and
   anticoagulants such as warfarin interfere with the blood's ability to clot and can be used to
   prevent stroke onset.     In one aspect, treatments for ischemic stroke can include Carotid
 5 Endarterectomy, which is a procedure where a blood vessel blockage is surgically removed
   from the carotid artery.      In another aspect, treatments for ischemic stroke can include
   Angioplasty/Stents, which involves the use of balloon angioplasty and implantable steel
    screens called stents to treat cardiovascular disease in which mechanical devices are used to
   remedy fatty buildup clogging the vessel. For hemorrhagic stroke, surgical treatment is often
10  recommended to either place a metal clip at the base, called the neck, of the aneurysm or to
    remove the abnormal vessels comprising an Arteriovenous Malformation (AVM). One such
    example is the Endovascular Procedures, e.g., "coils," which is less invasive and involve the
    use of a catheter introduced through a major artery in the leg or arm, guided to the aneurysm or
    AVM where it deposits a mechanical agent, such as a coil, to prevent rupture.
15          In certain aspects, the antisense compounds or mimetic peptides can be co
    administered as a combined modality for surgical treatment of stroke and ischemia. Surgical
    interventions for treatment of stroke includes, but is not limited to, conventional surgical
    modalities for treatment of stroke, which can be used to prevent stroke, to treat acute stroke, or
    to repair vascular damage or malformations (for example, AVM) in and around the brain.
20  These include, for example, carotid endarterectomy which is a procedure used to remove
    atherosclerotic   plaque from the      carotid artery when       this vessel     is blocked;    and
    Extracranial/intracranial (EC/IC) bypass; which is a procedure that restores blood flow to a
     blood-deprived area of brain tissue by rerouting a healthy artery in the scalp to the area of brain
    tissue affected by a blocked artery.
                                                    98

           In other aspects, surgical modalities for stroke or ischemia include, for example,
   clipping technique, which is useful for treatment of brain aneurysms that cause subarachnoid
   hemorrhage.     Clipping involves clamping off the aneurysm from the blood vessel, which
   reduces the chance that it will burst and bleed. In another aspect, surgical modality can include
 5 "detachable coil technique" for the treatment of high-risk intracranial aneurysms.            The
   technique generally involves the insertion of a small platinum coil through an artery in the
   thigh and threaded through the arteries to the site of the aneurysm. The coil is then released
   into the aneurysm, where it evokes an immune response from the body. The body produces a
   blood clot inside the aneurysm, strengthening the artery walls and reducing the risk of rupture.
10 Once the aneurysm is stabilized, a neurosurgeon can clip the aneurysm with less risk of
   hemorrhage and death to the patient. It is also contemplated that the surgical treatment of
   stroke include recently developed techniques such as Stereotactic Microsurgery for AVMs and
   Aneurysms.      It employs sophisticated computer technology and geometric principles to
   pinpoint the precise location of the AVM. During the procedure, a custom-fitted frame is
15 attached to the patient's head and three-dimensional reference points are established using CT
   or MRI. This technique allows neurosurgeons to locate the AVM within one or two
   millimeters so they can operate, using microscope-enhanced methods and delicate instruments,
   without affecting normal brain tissue. Other modalities include, for example, Stereotactic
   Radiosurgery for AVMs, which is a minimally invasive, relatively low-risk procedure that uses
20 the same basic techniques as stereotactic microsurgery to pinpoint the precise location of the
   AVM. Once located, the AVM can be obliterated by focusing a beam of radiation that causes
    it to clot and then disappear.    Due to the precision of this technique, normal brain tissue
    usually is not affected. Other modalities include, for example, Hypothermia, which utilizes
    hypothermia (cooling of the body) to prevent stroke during surgical treatment of giant and
25  complex aneurysms or difficult AVMs. Dropping the brain temperature gives the surgeon the
                                                    99

   necessary time to operate with minimal risk of surgery-induced stroke. Special equipment
   known as a cardiopulmonary bypass machine is sometimes used to completely shunt blood
   flow away from the brain while the body is placed under deep hypothermia. Other modalities
   include, for example, revascularization, which is a surgical technique for treating aneurysms or
 5 blocked cerebral arteries. The technique essentially provides a new route of blood to the brain
   by grafting another vessel to a cerebral artery or providing a new source of blood flow to the
   brain.
           In certain embodiments, targeted administration can be conducted using antisense
   compounds or mimetic peptides alone or in combination with other active agents such as, for
10 example, compounds useful for increasing efficacy, reducing tissue damage, promoting
   healing, or increasing patient comfort.        US published patent application 20040259768
   describes methods and agents for targeted release and the contents of which is hereby
   incorporated by reference.
            A variety of catheters and delivery routes can be used to achieve intracoronary delivery,
15 as is known in the art. For example, a variety of general-purpose catheters, as well as modified
   catheters, suitable for use in the .present invention are available from commercial suppliers
   such as Advanced Cardiovascular Systems (ACS), Target Therapeutics and Cordis. Also,
   where delivery to the myocardium is achieved by injection directly into a coronary artery
    (which is presently most preferred), a number of approaches can be used to introduce a
20  catheter into the coronary artery, as is known in the art. By way of illustration, a catheter can
    be conveniently introduced into a femoral artery and threaded retrograde through the iliac
    artery and abdominal aorta and into a coronary artery. Alternatively, a catheter can be first
    introduced into a brachial or carotid artery and threaded retrograde to a coronary artery.
    Detailed descriptions of these and other techniques can be found in the art (see, e.g., Topol, E J
25  (ed.), The Textbook of Interventional Cardiology, 2nd Ed. (W.B. Saunders Co. 1994);
                                                    100

   Rutherford, R B, Vascular Surgery, 3rd Ed. (W.B. Saunders Co. 1989); Wyngaarden J B et al.
   (eds.), The Cecil Textbook of Medicine, 19th Ed. (W. B. Saunders, 1992); and Sabiston, D,
   The Textbook of Surgery, 14th Ed. (W.B. Saunders Co. 1991)).
           The compounds provided herein may be administered parentally.             It is sometimes
 5 preferred that certain compounds are combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or
   diluent to produce a pharmaceutical composition.           Suitable carriers and diluents include
   isotonic saline solutions, for example phosphate-buffered saline. The composition may be
   formulated for parenteral,       intramuscular,   intracerebral,  intravenous,  subcutaneous,   or
   transdermal administration.      Uptake of nucleic acids by mammalian cells is enhanced by
10 several known transfection techniques, for example, those that use transfection agents. The
   formulation which is administered may contain such agents. Example of these agents include
   cationic agents (for example calcium phosphate and DEAE-dextran) and lipofectants (for
   example lipofectamTM and transfectam TM).
           Formulations for topical administration may include transdermal patches, ointments,
15 lotions, creams, gels, drops, suppositories, sprays, liquids and powders.             Conventional
   pharmaceutical carriers, aqueous, powder or oily bases, thickeners and the like may be
   necessary or desirable.       Coated gloves, condoms, and the like may also be useful.
   Compositions for oral administration include powders or granules, suspensions or solutions in
   water or non-aqueous media, capsules, sachets or tablets.            Thickeners, flavoring agents,
20  diluents, emulsifiers, dispersing aids or binders may be desirable. Compositions for parenteral
    administration may include sterile aqueous solutions which may also contain buffers, diluents
    and other suitable additives. In some cases it may be more effective to treat a patient with an
    oligonucleotide in conjunction with other traditional therapeutic modalities in order to increase
   the efficacy of a treatment regimen. As used herein, the term "treatment regimen" is meant to
25  encompass therapeutic, palliative and prophylactic modalities.
                                                    101

           Dosing can be dependent on a number of factors, including severity and responsiveness
   of the disease state to be treated, and with the course of treatment lasting from several days to
   several months, or until a cure is effected or a diminution of the disease state is achieved.
   Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of compounds provided herein can be determined by
 5 standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals. For example, for
   determining The LD 5o (the dose lethal to 50% of the population) and the ED 5o (the dose
   therapeutically effective in 50% of the population).          The dose ratio between toxic and
   therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be expressed as the ratio LD5o /ED 5o.
   Compounds which exhibit large therapeutic indices are preferred.          While compounds that
10 exhibit toxic side effects may be used, care should be taken to design a delivery system that
   targets such compounds to the site of affected tissues in order to minimize potential damage to
   uninfected cells and, thereby, reduce side effects.
            The data obtained from the cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in
   formulating a range of dosage for use in humans.             The dosage of such compounds lies
15 preferably within a range of circulating concentrations that include the ED50 with little or no
   toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed
    and the route of administration utilized.       For any compound used in the method of the
    invention, the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture assays.
    A dose may be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma concentration
20  range that includes the IC50 (i.e., the concentration of the test compound which achieves a half
    maximal inhibition of symptoms) as determined in cell culture. Such information can be used
    to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. Levels in plasma may be measured, for
    example, by high performance liquid chromatography. Dosing schedules can be calculated
    from measurements of drug accumulation in the body of the patient.            Dosages may vary
25  depending on the relative potency of individual compounds, including peptide mimetics or
                                                     102

   oligonucleotides, and can generally be estimated based on EC50 s found to be effective in vitro
   and in in vivo animal models.
           Suitable dosage amounts may, for example, vary from about 0.1 ug up to a total dose of
   about 1 gram, depending upon the route of administration. Guidance as to particular dosages
 5 and methods of delivery is provided in the literature and generally available to practitioners in
   the art. Those skilled in the art will employ different formulations for nucleotides than for
   proteins or their inhibitors. Similarly, delivery of polynucleotides, polypeptides, and
   compounds provided herein will be specific to particular cells, conditions, and locations. In
   general, dosage is from 0.01 mg/kg to 100 mg per kg of body weight, and may be given once
10 or more daily, weekly, monthly or yearly, or even once every 2 to 20 years.            In certain
   embodiments, the dosage may be given from immediately post surgery to 24 hours, in another
   embodiment; the dosage is given from 2 hours and up to 24 hours. Long-acting compositions
   may be administered every 3 to 4 days, every week, or biweekly depending on the half-life and
    clearance rate of the particular formulation. Persons of ordinary skill in the art can easily
15  estimate repetition rates for dosing based on measured residence times and concentrations of
   the drug in bodily fluids or tissues. Following successful treatment, it may be desirable to
    have the patient undergo maintenance therapy to prevent the recurrence of the disease state,
    wherein the mimetic peptide is administered in maintenance doses, ranging from 0.01 mg/kg
    to 100 mg per kg of body weight, once or more daily, to once every 20 years. In the treatment
20  or prevention of conditions which require connexin modulation an appropriate dosage level
    will generally be about 0.001 to 100 mg per kg patient body weight per day which can be
    administered in single or multiple doses. A suitable dosage level can be about 1 to about 40
    mg/kg per day. In certain embodiments, compounds provided herein, including specifically
    antisense compounds or mimetic peptides, are administered in an amount to achieve in vivo
25  concentrations from about 1 micromolar to about 1 millimolar, from about 10 micromolar to
                                                  103

   about 500 micromolar, or from about 30 micromolar to about 300 micromolar, and from about
   25 micromolar to about 300 micromolar final concentration over the damaged site,
   andincluding, about 25 micromolar, or about 160 micromolar, or about 300 micromolar final
   concentration over the damaged site, and still more typically between about 1 micromolar to
 5 about 10 micromolar.
           In another aspect, peptide inhibitors and mimetic peptides may be administered to
   achieve from about 0.1 micrograms per ml to about 1 mg per ml, from about 10 micrograms
   per ml to about 500 micrograms per ml, or from about 100 micrograms per ml to about 500
   micrograms per ml, about 250 micrograms per ml, or about 300 micrograms per ml final
10 concentration over the damaged site.
           The anti-connexin compound (e.g. peptide mimetic molecules) are introduced at a
   number of different concentrations preferably between 1xlO10 M to 1 x 10             -4 M. Once the
   minimum concentration that can adequately modulate a connexin (including control gene
   expression is identified, the optimized dose is translated into a dosage suitable for use in vivo.
15 Thus, an anti-connexin compound can be administered to achieve at desired concentration in
   vivo in a particular cell, tissue, or organ of a subject (e.g. a mammal). For example, in certain
   embodiments a mimetic peptide or other peptide-based anti-connexin compound is
   administered (e.g. systemically, orally, or parenterally, e.g., IV, etc.) to achieve a final in vivo
   peptide concentration of about 0.1 micromolar I x 10 ~7 M), about 1 micromolar (1 x 10 -6 M),
20 about 2 micromolar (2 x 10 -6 M), about 3 micromolar (3 x 10         6 M),   about 5 micromolar (5 x
   10  -6M),  about 10 micromolar (1 x 10 ~5 M), about 50 micromolar (5 x 10 ~5 M), about 250
   micromolar (2.5 x 10    4 M), about 500 micromolar (5 x 10      4 M), and 1 milimolar (1 x 10  - M),
   and 5 milimolar (1 x 10    -3 M) or greater. With some mimetic peptides an in vivo concentration
   of between about 1 to 10 micromolar (1 x 10            -6 M to 1 x 10     -5  M), including about 5
25 micromolar (5 x 10      -6 M),   is desirable.  In another aspect, a peptide-based anti-connexin
                                                     104

   compound is administered directly to a tissue (e.g. ventricles of the brain of a mammal) in an
   amount of about 0.1 micromol/kg, 1 micromol/kg, 10 micromol/kg, 50 micromol/kg, 250
   micromol/kg, 500 micromol/kg, 1000 micromol/kg, 5000 micromol/kg.                For example, an
   inhibiting concentration in culture of 1 x 10    -7 M translates into a dose of approximately 0.6
 5 mg/kg bodyweight for certain compounds.             Levels of an anti-connexin compound (e.g.
   antisense compound or mimetic peptide molecules) approaching 100 mg/kg bodyweight or
   higher may be possible after testing the toxicity of the compound in laboratory animals. It is
   also contemplated that cells from the vertebrate are removed, treated with the mimetic peptide,
   and reintroduced into the vertebrate.
10         Compounds described herein can be used in diagnostics, therapeutics, prophylaxis, and
   as research reagents and in kits.     Since the oligonucleotides of this invention hybridize to
   nucleic acids encoding connexin, sandwich, calorimetric and other assays can easily be
   constructed to exploit this fact.        Provision of means for detecting hybridization of
   oligonucleotide with the connexin genes or mRNA can routinely be accomplished.               Such
15 provision may include enzyme conjugation, radiolabel ling or any other suitable detection
   systems. Kits for detecting the presence or absence of connexin may also be prepared.
           The compounds of the invention may also be used for research purposes. Thus, the
   specific hybridization exhibited by the oligonucleotides may be used for assays, purifications,
   cellular product preparations and in other methodologies which may be appreciated by persons
20 of ordinary skill in the art.
           Various aspects of the invention will now be described with reference to the following
   experimental section which will be understood to be provided by way of illustration only and
   not to constitute a limitation on the scope of the invention.
                                                    105

           The following Examples are included for illustration and not limitation.
                              EXAMPLE 1: CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM
           Damage to the central nervous system can be devastating with enormous long-term
   cost to society in patient care.    The pathological changes that occur in severely injured
 5 neuronal tissue share common characteristics. Within 24 - 48 hours after injury the damage
   spreads significantly increasing the size of the area affected. This spread is propagated by the
   gap junction-mediated bystander effect by which gap junction channels spread neurotoxins and
   calcium waves from the damage site to otherwise healthy tissue. Lin, J.H. et al. Nature
   Neurosci. 1: 431-432 (1998). This is, however, also accompanied by inflammatory swelling
10 which results in closure of the extracellular space and cell death over the following 24 - 48
   hours. In fetal brain damage the swelling, for example, can be tracked as a change in cortical
   electrical impedance which measures cytotoxic edema Reddy, K., et al., PediatricResearch
   43: 674 - 682 (1998). This new damage, which is not an immediate result of the initial insult
   but subsequent events, occurs between 6 and 48 hours after injury, but may be as early as two
15 hours, provides a window of opportunity for treatment preventing damage spread.
           Figure 1 shows that oedema and swelling occurs even when the cord is excised from
   the animal (Figure 1A).        In both cases, the oedema can be blocked using antisense
   oligodexoynucleotides (ODNs) which prevent translation of the gap junction protein Connexin
   43 (Figure 1B). In the excised cord segments, the volume of swelling assessed is significantly
20 different between treated and controls (assessed by measuring area of swelling viewed from
   the top - p=0.00 1).
            This swelling observed after CNS damage and blocked using connexin specific
   antisense ODNs indicates that gap junction hemichannels are being expressed and are opening
   under pathological conditions leading to a direct pathway between the cell cytoplasm and the
25  extracellular space. Neurons subsequently die. Examination of cells 24 hours after injury
                                                   106

   shows vacuolation and membrane inward blebbing (Figure 2) caused by the uptake of
   extracellular fluid.    As described in the Figure 3A legends for color photographs,
   immunohistochemical labeling of connexin43 using antibodies which bind to the extracellular
   loop (broad band top left of the connexin topography diagram and labelled Gap7M) and
 5 antibodies to the cytoplasmic carboxyl tail of the protein (broad band at bottom right of
   connexin topography diagram and labelled GAP1A). The cytoplasmic antibody labels all
   connexin43 proteins and is used with a red fluorescently tagged secondary antibody. The
   Gap7M antibody can only label exposed extracellular loops of hemichannels and is used with a
   green fluorescently tagged secondary antibody. Gap7M is sterically hindered from binding to
10 docked connexons which are forming intact channels between cells and the only connexons
   which label with both antibodies (and will therefore appear yellow when both the red and
   green secondary antibody are colocalised) are existing as hemichannels. Figure 3B: As
   described in the Figure legends for colour photographs, this image shows dual labeling with
   the two antibodies described in Figure 3A applied to spinal cord sections 24 hours after a crush
15 wound. The image has small bright spots which are labelled connexins and large, lighter
   shaded spots marking cell nuclei labelled with DAPI. A significant portion of the connexin
    labelling appears yellow in combined inages indicating that the two antibodies (Gap7M and
   GAP1A) are colocalised. This means that the connexin extracellular loops are exposed and
   most of the connexons present have not docked with the neighboring cell's connexons and
20 remains as hemichannels. Figure 3C: As described in the Figure legends for colour
   photographs, this image shows dual labeling with the two connexin antibodies described in
   Figure 3A applied to spinal cord 24 hours after a crush wound. In this case the application of
    Connexin43 specific antisense ODNs has been applied to prevent protein translation.
    Hemichannels will appear as bright spots (which appear yellow in coloured images where the
25  green fluorescently tagged Gap7M and red fluoresecently tagged GAP1A are colocalised). The
                                                107

   larger, lighter spots are cell nuclei labelled with DAPI. Little gap junction protein is labelled,
   and few hemichannels are seen in these treated cords.
            Furthermore, gap junction antibodies which bind and label the extracellular loops of
   the connexin protein (Gap7M antibodies - Figure 3A) were shown to label extensive protein
 5 levels 24 hours following rat spinal cord injury (Figure 3B). These antibodies only bind to the
   portions of hemichannels that interact to form a mutimer upon docking in the membrane.
   These data indicates that much of the connexin 43 upregulation seen in early stages after CNS
   damage remains in hemichannel form.
            The expression of the connexin protein and hemichannel formation is blocked using
10 connexin 43 specific antisense ODNs applied in a Pluronic F-127 (Poloxamer) gel at the time
   of wounding (Figure 3C).
            This treatment indicates that ODN treatment in an explant model has maximum effect
   on protein levels (maximum knockdown) at 6 - 8 hours after application with knockdown
   apparent within 2 hours and protein levels recovering after about 24 hours (see Qiu et al, 2003;
15 Becker et al, 1999). In the brain similarly, slices of tissue placed into culture swell, but the
   swelling can be blocked using the connexin 43 specific antisense ODNs preventing
   hemichannel formation (C Green - data not shown).
            Following injury, upregulation of connexin levels leads to hemichannel formation
    causing cellular oedema and death. This is not, however, restricted to the neural population.
20  In the excised spinal cord segments, Isolectin B4 label (which binds to carbohydrates on the
    surface of microglial cells and endothelial cells of blood vessels) outlines blood capillaries
    even after 5 days in culture in the antisense treated tissue (Figure 5). In control segments few
    capillaries remain after two days (and after 5 days the predominant Isolectin B4 labeling is of
    activated macrophage phenotype (foam) glial cells). In connexin 43 antisense treated brain
                                                    108

   slices, capillaries remain intact even after two weeks in culture; while none remain in control
   slices (data not shown).
                    Following injury to rat spinal cord in vivo, rats were treated with connexin
   specific antisense ODNs and 24 hours later injected fluoresceinated -Bovine Serum Albumin
 5 (FITC tagged BSA) into the rat-tail vein. Control animals show extensive leakage of the dye
   from the vascular system into surrounding tissues even 5mm rostral to the wound site (Figure
   5A).    In sharp contract, antisense treated animals show little sign of leakage with the dye
   restricted to the capillary bed (Figure 5B). The capillary endothelial cells, which express
   connexin 43, are also forming hemichannels and becoming disrupted.               Importantly, the
10 connexin 43 specific antisense ODN treatment provided herein prevents the breakdown of the
   blood-brain barrier, breakdown of the vascular system (necessary for reperfusion and
   recovery), and the spread of damage.           The results show that this breakdown in the
   capillary/blood vessel system is not restricted to the central nervous system, and that a broader
   range of applications, such as for treatment vascular conditions, would benefit from
15 modulation of connexins. As described in the Figure 5Alegends for colour photographs, this
   image shows triple labeling of sheep heart ventricle wall 24 hours after an ischemic infarct.
   The four panels comprising this image are from tissue distant to the infarcted region. The
   tissue is labeled with Isolection B4 (top left panel) which is binding to blood vessel endothelial
   cells, and with antibodies to Gap7M (top right panel) and antibodies to connexin43 (bottom
20  left panel). The Gap7M antibodies recognize conserved extracellular loop regions of the
   connexin proteins so are not connexin isoform specific, but do mark hemichannels (they are
   sterically hindered from accessing their epitope in intact channels). The top left image shows
   normal capillary structure is present in this region. No hemichannels are present (top right) but
    connexin43 is present in intercalated disks of the working myocardium (bottom left). The
25 bottom right panel shows an overlay of the other three images. Little connexin43 label overlies
                                                    109

   the capillary vessel walls as it is prdominantly associated with the muscle cells. As described
   in the Figure 5B legends for colour photographs, this image shows triple labeling of sheep
   heart ventricle wall 24 hours after an ischemic infarct. The region seen is away from the infarct
   but closer to it than is shown in Figure 5B shows the tissue is labeled with Isolection B4 (top
 5 left panel) which is binding to blood vessel endothelial cells. Most of the vessels are still intact
   but the vessel walls are disrupted in areas (areas of broader dispersed labelling). Antibodies to
   Gap7M (top right panel) label hemichannels. Elongated patches of dense hemichannel label
   are evident. The bottom left panel shows antibody labelling of connexin 43. Careful
   comparison between these first three panels, or analysis of the patterns present on the bottom
10 right panel which shows the other three merged, shows that the connexin43 is uniquely
   associated with muscle cells. However, the hemichannel antibody has colabelled regions of the
   blood vessel wall that appear disrupted, indicating the presence of connexon hemichannels in
   those areas. As described in the Figure 5C legends for colour photographs, this image shows
   triple labeling of sheep heart ventricle wall 24 hours after an ischemic infarct. The region
15 shown is within the infarcted area itself. The tissue is labeled with Isolection B4 (top left
   panel) which is binding to blood vessel endothelial cells. Most of the vessels appear disrupted
   (areas of broader dispersed labelling in discontinuous lines). Antibodies to Gap7M (top right
   panel) label hemichannels. Multiple patches of dense hemichannel label are evident across the
   whole panel. The bottom left panel shows antibody labelling of connexin43. Careful
20  comparison between these first three panels, or analysis of the patterns present on the bottom
   right panel which shows the other three panels merged, shows that the connexin43 is
    associated with muscle cells, but the label is in short patches, quite unlike the usual labelling
    of connexin43 in the intercalated disks of cardiac muscle. This indicates that the myocytes
    have also become severely damaged in this central infarct region. The hemichannel antibody
25  has colabelled extensive regions of the blood vessel wall that appear disrupted, indicating the
                                                   110

   presence of connexon hemichannels in the blood vessel wall. Few capillaries remain intact
   apparently following this hemichannel expression. Here, as in figure 6B, the Gap7M antibody
   label does not colocalise with the connexin43 label (as it does in the spinal cord - Figure 2B),
   indicating they must be of a different gap junction protein isoform, most likely connexin45
 5 (See Camelliti, P., et al., Cardiovasc.Res. 62: 414 - 425 (2004).
                                EXAMPLE   2: CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM
           This Example examines the regulation and role of gap junction hemichannels to
   maintain vascular integrity in the capillary bed adjacent to ischemic tissue damage. A sterile
   gel foam was delivered through the left anterior descending or circumflex artery to induce
10 transmural myocardial infarcts. The gel was delivered essentially according to the methods of
   Devlin, G., et al., J. An ovine model of chronic stable heart failure. J. Card.Fail.6: 140 - 143
   (2000). Isolection-B4 labeling of capillary endothelial cells shows that the capillary bed
   adjacent to ischemic tissue is breaking down. We have recently analyzed progressive
   infarction in the sheep infarct model (Camelliti et al., Spatially and temporally distinct
15 expression of fibroblast connexins after sheep infarction, CardiovascularResearch, 62:415
   425 (2004)), and we proposed that this is caused by a gap junction mediated bystander effect.
   The data presented herein indicate a key role of gap junction mediated bystander effect
   associated with endothelial cell disruption and following expression of gap junction
   hemichannels. In triple labeling of 24-hour ischemic sheep heart using Isolectin-B4, connexin
20 43 and hemichannel antibodies the data show that the hemichannels are not connexin 43 in this
   case, but instead appear to be connexin 45 (Figures 6A, 6B, 6C). Note that Gap7M antibody
   recognizes conserved regions of the first extracellular loop of the connexin protein and is not
   connexin specific; it cross reacts with a number of the connexin family members. Connexin
   45 is the first connexin to be upregulated following ischemic heart injury (Camelliti et al,
25 2004). This series of panels (Figures 6A, 6B, 6C) show that while damage to the vessel walls
                                                   111

   is not apparent distant from the infarcted region (Figure 6A) it becomes progressively worse
   closer to the infarct region (Figure 6B) and in conjunction with hemichannel expression.
   Within the infarct region itself (Figure 6C) hemichannel protein expression is high, the
   capillary walls are extensively disrupted, and myocyte intercalated discs (where the connexin
 5 43 gap junctions are located) are becoming dispersed. As described in the Figure 6 legends for
   colour photographs, this image shows shows Isolectin B4 (top panel) marking capillary
   endothelial cells and myomesin antibody labeling (middle panel) marking M lines in the
   sacromeres of myocytes in a sheep heart ventricular infarct, 24 hours after ischemia. This
   region is the same as that shown in Figure 6C. The blood capillaries are completely disrupted
10 and normal myocyte sarcomeric banding pattern has been destroyed indicating muscle cell
   death is occurring in parallel with vessel wall disintegration. The lower image is a merger of
   the top two showing the relationship between the disrupted capillaries and abnormal muscle
   band labelling.
            Figure 7 shows Isolectin B4 label of disrupted blood vessels within the infarct zone
15 correlating with sarcomere disruption illustrated using antibodies for myomesin which label
   the M-bands of the sarcomeres. As in neural tissues, subsequent damage to the blood vessel
   walls appears to follow hemichannel expression, and cell death in general becomes significant
   and as a result of hemichannel opening.
            It has been reported that in hearts made hypoxic for 30 minutes and reperfused with
20 heptanol (a non-specific gap junction channel blocker) in the medium prevented the oxygen
   paradox leading to hypercontraction and myocyte death. Garcia-Doradaet al., Circulation
    96:3579-3586 (1997). These authors reported that hypercontracture may be transmitted to
    adjacent myocytes through gap junctions. Our data is consistent with the idea that within 30
   minutes hemichannel expression may be playing a significant role in hypercontracture.
                                                   112

           Increased gap junction protein expression and hemichannel opening under pathological
   conditions is leading to endothelial cell disruption and breakdown of the cardiac vascular
   system in the regions surrounding ischemia damaged tissue. This finding, first described
   herein, it is believed to have enormous significance for the treatment of reperfusion injury and
 5 is a probable mechanism for progressive infarction.          Robbins, S. and Cotran, R. 1979.
   Pathologic basis of disease.  2 nd Edition. WB Saunders Company, Philadelphia.
                                EXAMPLE     3: MIMETIC PEPTIDE DESIGN
   Mimetic Peptide Design
           In this example, nine overlapping peptidomimetics were designed to have the same
10 amino acid sequence as connexin 43 extracellular loop regions believed to be involved in the
   connexon docking process (Foote et al., J Cell Biol 140(5):1187-97, (1998)). These particular
   peptides were all designed to be 11 - 13 residues long. Some peptides included amino acids
   matching the outer portions of the alpha helical transmembrane subunits, which may show
   enhanced functional inhibition. Not all of these peptides are necessarily connexin 43 specific
15 due to the conservation of connexin sequences in the extracellular loop regions.
           Peptides targeted to connexon 43 (hemichannel) are shown below. M1, 2, 3 and 4 refer
   to the 1st to  4 th transmembrane regions of the connexon 43 protein respectively. El and E2
   refer to the first and second extracellular loops respectively:
                     FEVAFLLIQWI (SEQ ID NO:32)                    M3 & E2
20                   LLIQWYIGFSL(SEQ ID NO:33)                     E2
                     SLSAVYTCKRDPCPHQ(SEQ ID NO:34)                E2
                     VDCFLSRPTEKT (SEQ ID NO:35)                   E2
                     SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ ID NO:36)                    E2 & M4
                     LGTAVESAWGDEQ (SEQ ID NO:37)                  M1& El
25                   QSAFRCNTQQPG (SEQ ID NO:38)                   El
                     QQPGCENVCYDK(SEQ ID NO:39)                    El
                     VCYDKSFPISHVR (SEQ ID NO:40)                  El
30
                                                    113

                     EXAMPLE    5: FUNCTIONAL TESTING OF MIMETIC PEPTIDES
           Two functional tests were carried out using peptides. These functional test were (i)
   blockage of dye (Lucifer Yellow) uptake by cells in spinal cord slices, and (ii) prevention of
   oedema in spinal cord segments (using connexin 43 specific antisense as a positive control).
 5 All peptides used were synthesised by Sigma-Genosys (Australia).
   Blockage of dye (Lucifer Yellow) uptake by cells in spinal cord slices.
           Lucifer Yellow is a small water soluble, fixable, dye able to pass from cell to cell via
   gap junction channels, but not across the cell membrane. The addition of Lucifer Yellow to
   the extracellular medium makes it is possible to check for the presence of open gap junction
10 hemichannels.     The dye will appear in the cytoplasm of cells which are expressing open
   channels.
           Wistar p7 rats were anesthetized with carbon dioxide and immediately decapitated.
   The spinal cord was excised and transferred to cold Hank's balanced salt solution (HBSS) at
   pH 7.4. Excess branch nerves and ligaments were removed and the cord transferred to a
15 manual tissue chopper and a series of 500 micron thick slices cut. The damage caused by the
   slicing induces connexin 43 upregulation through the entire slice (exacerbated by the gap
   junction mediated bystander effect), and leads to the expression of connexin hemichannels.
    Slices were placed onto 3 cm diameter Millipore inserts in 24 well plates and cultured in the
   presence of mimetic peptides in the media. The final concentration for all 9 peptides tested
20 was 500 micromolar. Controls were; no peptide added, or with 1% ethanol or 1% DMSO
    added as some peptides were re-dissolved in these compounds (peptides were received
    lyophilised). Some slices were also treated at this time with connexin 43 specific antisense
    oligodeoxynucleotides in 30% Pluronic F-127 gel or with gel only, as control experiments.
    The slices treated with antisense oligodeoxynucleotides indicated that the antisense prevented
25  connexin expression and subsequently dye uptake, and thus these acted as a positive control.
                                                 114

            Slices were incubated for four hours at 37 degrees C, and then 2.5mg per ml Lucifer
   Yellow was added to each well for 30 minutes (in the dark). The tissues were then rinsed
   twice in PBS, with three further 10 minute washes, and the slices fixed with 4%
   paraformaldehyde.     They were then viewed using a Leica TCS4D laser scanning confocal
 5 microscope to assess dye uptake into cells, or not.
            Results showed that media alone cultured slices, and DMSO, ethanol and gel only
   treated slices had significant dye uptake. Connexin 43 treated slices had no dye uptake. The
   peptide treated slices showed considerable dye uptake, with the exception of those treated with
   the following peptides (which have overlapping sequences):
10                  VDCFLSRPTEKT (SEQ ID NO:35), and
                    SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ ID NO:36)
            The level of dye uptake for slices treated with the peptides having SEQ ID NOS:32-34
    ((FEVAFLLIQWI          (SEQ        ID     NO:32),      LLIQWYIGFSL(SEQ         ID     NO:33),
    SLSAVYTCKRDPCPHQ (SEQ ID NO:34)) and SEQ ID NOS:37-40 (LGTAVESAWGDEQ
15  (SEQ ID NO:37), QSAFRCNTQQPG (SEQ ID NO:38), QQPGCENVCYDK (SEQ ID
   NO:39), and VCYDKSFPISHVR (SEQ ID NO:40)) was comparable with control slices.
            In summary, these data show that the spinal cord slices express hemichannels that are
    open within 4 hours of injury. Importantly, the data also show that peptides corresponding to
    SEQ ID NO: 35 and 36 are capable of preventing and/or blocking and/or closing the opening
20  of the hemichannels and preventing swelling.
    Prevention of oedema in spinal cord
            The system described in Example 1 was used to examine the effects of the peptides
    VDCFLSRPTEKT (SEQ ID NO:35) and SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ ID NO:36) on cultured spinal
    cord segments to test their ability to block swelling.
                                                    115

           The peptide QQPGCENVCYDK (SEQ ID NO:39) was used a negative control because
   it allowed dye uptake in the slice cultures described above, and was thus believed to not be
   able to block oedema in the segments. DMSO was again used as an additional control.
           5mm long spinal cord segments were placed in separate wells of a 24 well plate in
 5 HBSS. The segments were held to the bottom of the well using a small drop of Superglue.
   The HBSS was removed and 500 micromolar peptide (final concentration) added to media (no
   peptide for media alone or DMSO controls). The plates were incubated for 24 hours, the
   media removed and the tissue fixed with Bouin's fixative for 24 hours. Analysis involved
   photographing cord segments from above, with Image J used to calculate the total area of the
10 cord segment compared with the area of swelling at the cut ends of the segments. Swelling
   (oedema) was calculated as (cultured area - original area divided by original area) to give %
   swelling. Single factor Analysis of Variance was used to determine statistical significance,
   with cut-off level for significance at p=0.05.
            Results were that DMSO treated cord segments swelled the most (33%) with all control
15 cord     segments    swelling    21    -   23%.     Segments    treated   with   the   peptide
   QQPGCENVCYDK(SEQ               ID   NO:39)     also showed   23%      swelling  but   peptides
   VDCFLSRPTEKT (SEQ ID NO:35) and SRPTEKTIFH (SEQ ID NO:36) showed a reduced
    15 and 17% swelling respectively (Figure 8). The difference between the peptides
    VDCFLSRPTEKT (SEQ ID NO:35) and SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ ID NO:36) treated cord
20  segments and controls was significant (p=0.43). Subsequent histological examination of the
    tissues revealed that the peptide SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ ID NO:36) treated segments retained
    better morphology and so dose response experiments were then carried out with this peptide.
            Determining the most effective concentration of the peptide SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ ID
    NO:36) for blocking of oedema in spinal cord segments was carried out using the same
25  protocol. In this case a dose response was determined with final concentration of peptides
                                                   116

   used at 5, 10, 50 250 and 500 micromolar. Results are shown in Figure 8. Interestingly the
   lowest concentration of the peptide (5 micromolar) gave the best result (least oedema) when
   compared to media alone (p= 0.001). The middle range 50 micromolar was somewhat less
   effective in repeat experiments.
 5          Immunohistochemical analysis showed reduced astrocytosis (GFAP expression) in the
   peptide SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ ID NO:36) treated segments after 24 hours in culture. Again 5
   micromolar was most effective at preventing the inflammatory response although difference
   between the concentrations used were less marked than in the oedema experiments. All
   treatments showed significantly reduced glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression (area
10 of label per area of section analysed using Image J) (Table 7).
             Our experiments have indicated that a dose of 5 pmol/kg brain weight for the perinatal
    sheep experiment (average 25 g at this fetal age) of the selected peptidomimetic (SEQ ID
   NO:36) given in 1 ml of artificial CSF i.c.v.( vs. vehicle of CSF alone) over one hour, followed
   by a further 1ml per day perfused into the brain for 72 hours had a significant effect. Dosages
15  of about 5   smol/kg  brain, 50 pmol/kg and 250 pimol/kg brain weight are also possible. For
    intravenous (systemic delivery) the effect of log-order increases in plasma concentrations can
    be used to determine an appropriate dose, starting with loading doses to achieve 0.5 ptmol/L
    (mean fetal blood volume is approximately 350 ml in our perinetal sheep at this age), then 5,
     10, 50, 250, 500 and 5000 pM.
20           ImageJ is Java script open source, public domain image analysis software originally
    developed by the NIH (and called NIH Image).
                                                Table 7
                           Treatment                    Area of GFAP label (square units)
               Control                                2450
               5 micromolar peptide 5                 300
               50 micromolar peptide 5                950
               250 micromolar peptide 5                1000
               500 micromolar peptide 5                750
                                                   117

            Table 7: Areas of GFAP label in images taken in spinal cord 24 hours after slicing.
   Control cords have high levels of GFAP indicating an inflammatory response and greater
   bystander effect than the treated segments.      The lower peptide concentration is the most
 5 effective at limiting astrocytosis.
            Activated microglial cell counts revealed no differences at 24 hours as expected. This
   secondary inflammatory process (differentiation and proliferation from resting microglial cells
   to macrophage phenotype) usually takes three - seven days.
    EXAMPLE     6: IN Vivo APPLICATION OF CONNEXIN SPECIFIC MIMETIC PEPTIDES To BLOCK
10        ISCHAEMIA AND EPILEPTIFORM BRAIN ACTIVITY IN            A PERINATAL SHEEP MODEL
            Brain damage resulting from cerebral ischaemia remains a significant problem at all
   stages of life. In the term newborn, moderate to severe damage at birth occurs in 2 to 3 per
    1000 live births. One of the most striking features is that the injury spreads over time from the
   most severely damaged areas outwards, into previously undamaged regions. Immediately after
15 cerebral ischaemia there is transient recovery of brain metabolism that lasts for some hours.
   After this, however, there is a progressive mitochondrial failure, coupled with secondary cell
   swelling, reaching a maximum 36 to 48 h after initial injury.
            Active coupling of gap junctions, between glia and neurons, mediates a bystander
    effect in which cell death signals are transferred from dying cells to less severely injured or
20 healthy cells. Earlier studies showed that in vivo topical application of gap junction protein
    connexin 43 specific antisense oligodeoxynucleotides can restrict the spread of injury and
    secondary inflammation following trauma. See W02000/44409 to Becker, D. and Green. C.,
    entitled "Formulations Comprising Antisense Mucleotides to Connexins."
             The peptide SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ ID NO:36) was used in an in vivo model of sheep
25  perinatal ischaemia. The data indicate that connexin specific mimetic peptides provide a
                                                   118

   treatment with potential to significantly reduce secondary damage in the ischaemic perinatal
   brain or following a stroke. Preliminary analysis showed that 24 h after cerebral ischaemia in
   the near-term fetal sheep there is increased expression of gap junction hemi-channels (i.e.
   uncoupled connexons) (Figure 9).
 5          A Romney-Suffolk cross fetal sheep was instrumented between 117 to 124 days of
   gestation (0.85 term) under general anaesthesia as described elsewhere in detail (Gerrits et al,
   PediatrRes 57(3):342-6, (2005); Guan et al., Neuroscience 95(3):831-839, (1999); Guan et
   al., J Cereb Blood Flow Metab 21(5):493-502, (2001); Gunn et al., J Clin Invest 99(2):248
   256, (1997), Gunn et al., Pediatrics 102(5):1098-1106, (1998), Gunn et al., Pediatr Res
10 46(3):274-280, (1999); Roelfsema et al., J Cereb Blood Flow Metab 24(8):877-886, (2004)).
   Instrumentation included brachial artery and vein catheters, EKG electrodes, an inflatable
    occluder around a fetal carotid artery (Gunn et al., 1997; Roelfsema et al., 2004), parietal EEG
    electrodes 5 and 15 mm anterior, and 10 mm lateral to bregma, a pair of electrodes placed
    lateral to these to measure cortical impedance (a measure of cytotoxic oedema (Gunn et al.,
15  1997) and a 17-mm-long left i.c.v. cannula 4mm anterior and 6mm lateral to bregma. The
    instrumentation was exteriorised to the maternal flank, uterine and abdominal walls closed,
    and fetal vascular catheters heparinised (20 RI/ml). The maternal wound was infiltrated with a
    long acting local anaesthetic bupivacaine (100 mg/20 ml).
             After 5 days recovery, fetal cerebral hypoperfusion was induced by a 30 minute period
20  of bilateral carotid artery occlusion (Gunn et al., 1997; Roelfsema et al., 2004; Tan et al., Ann
    Neurol 32(5):677-682,       (1992); Tan et al., Pediatr Res 39(5):791-797, (1996)).            An
    intracerebroventricular infusion of connexin mimetic peptide 5 was started 90 minutes after
    the ischaemia and continued for 72 hours. A dose of 5 pmol/kg brain weight (average 25 g at
    this fetal age) of the peptidomimetic 5 was given in 1 ml of artificial CSF i.c.v.( vs. vehicle of
25  CSF alone) over one hour, followed by a further Iml per day perfused into the brain for 72
                                                    119

   hours. The experiment was ended by a maternal intravenous overdose of sodium pentobarbital
   (30 ml, 300 mg/ml). The fetal brain was removed for histology and immunohistochemical
   analysis.
            The results (Figure 10) show that early infusion of the peptide attenuates secondary,
 5 delayed seizure activity and cytotoxic oedema.
            In summary, these data demonstrate that a peptidomimetic protein that targets the
   extracellular domain of connexin 43 hemichannels can suppress secondary oedema and
   inflammation following brain ischaemia. In a near-term fetal sheep, we found that cerebral
   ischaemia was associated with a dramatic induction of connexin 43 and of hemichannels
10 within 24 h after ischaemia, while an i.c.v infusion of the peptidomimetic protein to the term
   fetus from 90 min after reperfusion showed significant attenuation of secondary seizures and
   cytotoxic oedema.
     EXAMPLE 7: TREATMENT OF A HUMAN PATIENT WITH CONNEXIN                 43 SPECIFIC ANTISENSE
    IN A SUB-ACUTE WOUND - PREVENTION OF BLOOD VESSEL DIE BACK ALLOWS RECOVERY
15                                       FROM LIMBAL ISCHAEMIA
             In this study, a patient presented with a sub-acute non-healing wound (chemical burn)
    to the eye. The eye remained inflamed and limbal ischaemia was still present after 8 days
    (indicating poor limbal vascularisation). The limbus contains the stem cells necessary for
    epithelial recovery of the cornea. Following treatment with connexin 43 specific antisense the
20  limbal ischaemia had gone within 20 hours and re-epithelialisation had commenced. The
    conclusion is that continuing inflammation leads to a persistent die back of the blood vessels
    exacerbating the injury through limbal ischaemia. Treatment of the eye with the connexin 43
    antisense reduced the inflammatory response and triggered epithelial recovery (Qiu et al., Curr
    Biol 13:1697-1703, (2003)).         Note however that this was a sub-acute wound implying
25  treatment for chronic wounds is possible - such wounds in humans retain high connexin 43
                                                     120

   levels at the epithelial leading edge (Brandner et al., J Invest Derinatol 122:1310-1320,
   (2004)).    In addition, the treatment allowed blood vessel recovery. We propose that the
   mechanism involved is prevention of further hemichannel expression in the vessel wall,
   allowing vessel regrowth.
 5         Patient: Patient was a 25 year old male. He first presented with alkaline burns to left
   eye following a building site accident with a high pressure concrete hose (concrete/alkali in the
   eye, coupled with delay getting to first treatment).      The damaged eye had no remaining
   epithelium covering the front of the eye (including the entire cornea).
           Initial Treatment: Patient was put onto 10% ascorbate drops, 10% citrate drops, 1%
10 prednisone acetate (steroid) drops, 1% cyclopentalate and chloramphenicol, plus oral vitamin
   C and deoxycycline. The prednisone was delivered hourly for first five days, after which the
   dose was reduced to four times per day.
            On day four an amniotic membrane was stitched over the cornea.
            Connexin 43 Antisense Treatment (DAY ZERO): At day eight post-injury the patient
15 still had high degree of inflammation, limbal ischaemia, and no sign of epithelial recovery.
   Ethical permissions were obtained based on lack of any viable treatment alternatives that could
   save the patient's eye. The other eye has signs of keratoconus and was thus not suitable for
    limbal transplant at a later date. The injured eye would either have been surgically removed or
   allowed to become a "conjunctive eye" (wherein the conjunctiva, in the form of a white sheath,
20  grows over the eye to render the patient blind).
            Connexin 43 antisense in 30% F-127 Pluronic gel was injected with a catheter needle
    under the amniotic membrane in two places either side of the cornea. Approximately 100
    microliters of two micromolar anti-connexin 43 was injected and gently spread around the
    cornea using a cotton wand over the amniotic membrane. The gel was injected cold and set
25  immediately to a soft jelly-like substance.
                                                    121

           The patient was removed from all other treatments for eight hours to avoid any
   potential adverse effects on the treatment. The patient was then placed back on steroid drops
   (three times per day), cyclopentalate (once per day), and ascorbate, citrate, chloramphenicol
   drops (four times each per day).
 5         Connexin 43 Antisense Treatment (DAY ONE): Within 20 hours following connexin
   43 antisense treatment the eye had become substantially quieter (reduced inflammation) and
   the epithelium was growing back in three places. The limbus was well vascularized with good
   blood flow, and no sign of limbal ischaemia, i.e., there was full blood flow back to the limbus
   within 20 hours post- treatment.
10          Connexin 43 Antisense (DAY THREE): Within 72 hours after connexin 43 antisense
   treatment the patient had continued to improve. The eye was quiet, the limbal blood supply
   was excellent, and the epithelium was growing back around 360 degrees. On one side there
   appeared to be a small area of lamellapodial crawling, but on the remainder of the
   circumference of the cornea there was nice even inward growth.
15          Connexin 43 Antisense Treatment (DAY SIX): Within six days following treatment
   (14 days post-injury) the epithelium was fully recovered (completely grown over) although it
    appeared slightly granular in places and perhaps patchy or thin in places (assessed looking
   through the amniotic membrane).       The limbal region remained well vascularized with full
   blood flow.
20          Forty days after treatment the patient had excellent recovery for a chemical burn,
    showing 6/48 vision unaided and 6/15 pinhole. Two thirds of the epithelium was absolutely
    healthy, one third at periphery showing some conjunctival growth but not covering the pupil
    and not vascularised. Very good limbal vascularisation.
25
                                                 122

   Optic Nerve Neuropathy
            Ischaemic optic neuropathy (ION), also known as stroke of the optic nerve, is a
   collection of diseases that affects the blood supply to the optic nerve. ION can be categorised
   based on the locality or aetiology. Anterior ION (AAOIN) referss to diseases affecting nerve
 5 segments prior to lamina cribrosa while the opposite is true for Posterior ION (PION) (Buono
   et al., Survey of Ophthalmology 50:15-26, (2005); Collignon et al., Ophthalmology 111:1663
    1672, (2004)). PION is less commonly observed, and is believed to be caused by infarction of
   the intraorbital portion of the optic nerve, most likely due to giant cell arteritis (GCA) or as a
   secondary complication of surgical procedures (Buono and Foroozan, 2005; Ho et al., Journal
10 of NeurosurgicalAnesthesiology 17:38-44, (2005)). ION can be also be divided into arteritic
   (Arteritic ION) and non-arteritic (NAION) based on aetiology. Arteritic ION is always caused
   by GCA and usually results in thrombotic occlusion of the posterior ciliary artery, which can
   lead to concomitant obstruction of other arteries in the optic nerve (Galasso et al., Seminars in
    Ophthalmology 19:75-77, (2004)). NAION is the most common form of non-glaucomic optic
15 neuropathy with an annual incidence of 2.3/10,000 (Collignon-Robe et al., Ophthalmology
    111:1663-1672, (2004)). GCA is a chronic vasculitis of large and medium vessels in the brain
    characterised by an increased inflammatory giant cell count (Buono et al., Survey of
    Ophthalmology 50:15-26, (2005); Khosla et al., Journal of PostgraduateMedicine 50:219
    221, (2004); Penn et al., Autoimmunity Reviews 2:199-203, (2003)).             Visual loss is not
20  common but does occur as a secondary complication owing to occlusion of the anterior vessels
    supplying the optic nerve, and is often irreversible (Khosla et al., 2004). The incidence of GCA
    in Western countries range from 1-30/10,000 with much higher prevalence in the population
    over 50 years of age (Penn and Dasgupta, 2003).
                                                    123

            The typical outcome of ION is the degeneration of axon tracts, accompanied by
   deterioration or even loss of vision (Buono et al., 2005; Khosla et al., 2004; Penn and
   Dasgupta, 2003).
            Conventional treatments of ION include administration of corticosteroids and
 5 antiplatelet agents (Arnold et al., Seminars in Ophthalmology 17: 39-46, (2002)). but patients
   treated with these drugs have not demonstrated significant improvement from the disease.
            In the optic nerve both astrocytes and oligodendrocytes express connexin molecules.
   Connexin 43 is abundantly found in the astrocytes and is potentially involved in various
   disease processes. Blood vessel endothelial cells in the optic nerve also express connexin 43.
10          In this study optic nerve ischaemia was induced in an ex vivo model and nerve
    segments placed into organotypic culture treated with connexin 43 specific antisense
   oligodeoxynucleotides delivered in 30% F-127 Pluronic gel, or control gel.
   Tissue Preparation:
            Wistar rats aged 21 to 25 days postnatal (p21 to p25) were used. The wiener rats were
15  sacrificed by overdosing with carbon dioxide, the skulls opened in a midsagittal orientation,
    and the brain region caudal to the cerebellum exercised and discarded. Incisions were then
    made below the olfactory lobes to reveal the intracranial regions of the optic nerve.
    Approximately 0.3 to 0.5 mm of optic nerve which spans the optic chiasm and terminal point
    of the optic canal could be obtained through this method. The nerves were then subjected to
20  ischaemia as below.
            A viable organotypic culture model of ION protocol was suggested by Sundstrom et al.,
    Drug Discovery Today 10:993-1000, (2005), working on CNS ischaemia. Prior to the
    experiment, 1OmL of medium prepared in a falcon tube without glucose and glutamine was
    bubbled with 95% N 2 and 5% CO2 gas mixture for 30 minutes to remove al the oxygen. The
25  dissected optic nerves were transferred to the oxygen glucose deprived (OGD) solution and
                                                  124

   sealed with parafilm and cellophane. The optic nerves were incubated in ischaemic solution for
   two hours at 37*C and subsequently returned to organotypic culturing conditions for lengths of
   time as required.
           An interphase culturing methodology used. After incubation in OGD solutions, the
 5 optic nerves were placed onto a semi-porous membrane and into a six well plate containing
   lml of Neurobasal medium with B27 supplement, D-glucose and L-glutamine and antibiotics
   (Gibco, USA). For antisense treatment, 7gL of Pluronic F-127 gel (#P2443, Sigma, USA)
   containing I 0pM AS-ODN specific for connexin 43 translational block was administered to
   cover each optic nerve. This amount was sufficient to cover the whole segment without over
10 flooding the tissue. For gel only and control groups, the same amount (7RL) of Pluronic F-127
   gel and medium was applied to the nerves, respectively. The culture plates were then placed
   into an incubator with temperature set at 370 C with 5% CO2 . The main advantage of this
   culturing technique is that it ensures a constant supply of oxygen from the top while nutrients
   can diffuse from the bottom.
15         After culture, the nerves were rinsed for 15 minutes in 1x PBS (# BR14,oxoid,
   England) and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA) for approximately two hours prior to being
   cryoprotected by going through 20% then 30% sucrose in PBS. The nerves were then stored in
    15% sucrose in PBS until ready for further processing. To section the tissues, the optic nerves
   were embedded in OCT (#4583, Tissue Tek*, USA), frozen at -20'C and subsequently cut
20 into longitudinal 14 and 18ptm thick sections. The slices were collected onto Histobond slides
    (#08 10001, Marienfeld, Germany) and stored for further processing in a -80 C freezer.
            Swelling (oedema) was assessed by photographing optic nerves from above and
   measuring (cultured area - original area divided by original area) to give % swelling. Cell
    death was assessed using propidium iodide to label the nuclei of compromised cells. Cell death
25 was assessed near the cut ends of the nerves and in the middle region of the nerves.
                                                  125

           Figure 11 shows a dose response curve for antisense and control treated optic nerves
   cultured for 6 hours and 24 hours after ischemic injury. Figure 11 A shows percentage swelling,
   and Figure 11B cell death assessed using propidium iodide counts at the cut end (front) and in
   the middle of the nerve. Oedema is reduced in nerves with connexin 43 antisense, especially at
 5 the 10 micromolar concentration which we have previously shown to be optimal for crush
   wounds in spinal cord studies (unpublished). Cell death at both the cut end and toward the
   middle of the nerve is reduced using the antisense resulting is lower dead cell counts in both
   regions in a dose dependent manner.
           Figure 12 below shows that reduction in swelling (oedema) is maintained over time.
10 Figure 13 shows propidium iodide staining of dead cells in the middle of control and connexin
   43 specific AS-ODN treated optic nerve segments at 2, 6 and 24 hours after ischaemic
   induction. Little staining is exhibited by the connexin 43 specific AS-ODN treated group when
   compared to the controls at all three time points. The line graph in Figure 13 shows the number
   of dead cells per unit area in the medial region of the nerve for the control and AS-ODN
15 treated optic nerves. Cell death in the control group initially increases, peaks at six hours and
   then declines slightly (probably owing to tissue oedema leaving fewer cells per unit area). Only
   a very slight increase in cell death after even 24 hours in culture was noted for AS-ODN
   treated tissue.
   Blood Vessel Segment lengths - von Willebrand Factor staining:
20          In order to demonstrate that blood vessel integrity was being compromised by connexin
    expression vessels in control and connexin 43 specific antisense treated optic nerves in the
    ischemic model were labelled with von Willebrand factor, an endothelial cell marker. As
    vessels broke down increasing numbers of smaller segments could be counted and segment
    length measured. The mean length and number of blood vessels per section was investigated in
25  more than sixty vessels in six separate sections obtained from two animals for each point.
                                                    126

           On average, the number of blood vessel segments in the controls was fewer than that in
   connexin 43 specific AS-ODN treated nerves at all but the longest time point investigated
   (Table 8). The bar graph (Figure 14) shows that the mean vessel length in connexin 43 specific
   AS-ODN treated optic nerves remained relatively constant throughout the first three days, but
 5 starting to fall by approximately 30% by Day 6. A similar temporal pattern is observed for the
   control group but for all time points average vessel segment length is significantly shorter than
   for the antisense treated group.
                                              TABLE 8
                                    Number of Segments per Section
                                                  AS              Ctrl
                                 Day 1            10.8           23.5
                                 Day 2            13.3           19.2
                                 Day 3            29.7            41
                                 Day 6            18.2           13.8
10
   Table B shows the average number of blood vessel segments counted in control and treated
   groups. In the first three days, AS treated groups, on average, have 28- 50% fewer blood
   vessel segments in comparison to control. Only after 6 days in organotypic culture does the AS
   treated nerve a greater segment count than in controls, having 24% more vessels counted.
15 Extended culture times may by then be having an effect.
           This Example shows that prevention of connexin 43 expression following optic nerve
   ischaemia reduces oedema (reduced swelling), lesion spread (number of dead cells per unit
   area away from the original damage zone) and blood vessel degradation. It therefore behaves
   in a similar manner to that reported in Example 1 - spinal cord. It has therapeutic applications
20 as the same oedema and vessel loss is reported in in vivo studies (Bernstein et al., Invest
   Ophthahnol Vis Sci 44:4153-4162, (2003)).
                                                   127

           All patents, publications, scientific articles, web sites, and other documents and
   materials referenced or mentioned herein are indicative of the levels of skill of those skilled in
   the art to which the invention pertains, and each such referenced document and material is
   hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if it had been incorporated by reference
 5 in its entirety individually or set forth herein in its entirety. Applicants reserve the right to
   physically incorporate into this specification any and all materials and information from any
   such patents, publications, scientific articles, web sites, electronically available information,
   and other referenced materials or documents.
           The specific methods and compositions described herein are representative of preferred
10 embodiments and are exemplary and not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention.
   Other objects, aspects, and embodiments will occur to those skilled in the art upon
   consideration of this specification, and are encompassed within the spirit of the invention as
   defined by the scope of the claims. It will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that
   varying substitutions and modifications may be made to the invention disclosed herein without
15 departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The invention illustratively described
   herein suitably may be practiced in the absence of any element or elements, or limitation or
   limitations, which is not specifically disclosed herein as essential. Thus, for example, in each
    instance herein, in embodiments or examples of the present invention, any of the terms
    "comprising", "consisting essentially of', and "consisting of' may be replaced with either of
20 the other two terms in the specification.          Also, the terms "comprising", "including",
    containing", etc. are to be read expansively and without limitation.          The methods and
    processes illustratively described herein suitably may be practiced in differing orders of steps,
    and that they are not necessarily restricted to the orders of steps indicated herein or in the
    claims. It is also that as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an,"5
25  and "the" include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Under no
                                                    128

   circumstances may the patent be interpreted to be limited to the specific examples or
   embodiments or methods specifically disclosed herein.          Under no circumstances may the
   patent be interpreted to be limited by any statement made by any Examiner or any other
   official or employee of the Patent and Trademark Office unless such statement is specifically
 5 and without qualification or reservation expressly adopted in a responsive writing by
   Applicants.
           The terms and expressions that have been employed are used as terms of description
   and not of limitation, and there is no intent in the use of such terms and expressions to exclude
   any equivalent of the features shown and described or portions thereof, but it is recognized that
10 various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as claimed. Thus, it will
   be understood that although the present invention has been specifically disclosed by preferred
   embodiments and optional features, modification and variation of the concepts herein
   disclosed may be resorted to by those skilled in the art, and that such modifications and
   variations are considered to be within the scope of this invention as defined by the appended
15 claims.
            The invention has been described broadly and generically herein. Each of the narrower
   species and subgeneric groupings falling within the generic disclosure also form part of the
   invention. This includes the generic description of the invention with a proviso or negative
   limitation removing any subject matter from the genus, regardless of whether or not the
20 excised material is specifically recited herein.
            Other embodiments are within the following claims. In addition, where features or
   aspects of the invention are described in terms of Markush groups, those skilled in the art will
   recognize that the invention is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or
   subgroup of members of the Markush group.
                                                    129

Disclosed herein are the following forms:
1. A method for treating a vascular disorder comprising administering an anticonnexin
compound to a subject in an amount capable of modulating a connexin hemichannel in a
tissue associated with said vascular disorder.
2. A method for treating a subject for an inflammatory disorder comprising administering to
said subject a therapeutically effective amount of an anti-connexin compound capable of
inhibiting the expression, formation, or activity of a connexin hemichannel.
3. A method for treating a subject in connection with a transplant or grafting procedure
comprising administration to said subject an amount of an anti-connexin compound capable
of inhibiting the expression, formation or activity of a connexin hemichannel.
4. A method of treating a wound comprising administering to the wound a anticonnexin
binding protein capable of capable of inhibiting the expression, formation, or activity of a
connexin hemichannel.
5. The method of form 4, wherein tissue edema associated with said transplant or grafting
procedure is ameliorated.
6. A method of any one of forms 1-4 wherein a mimetic peptide is used.
7. A method of any one of forms 1-3 wherein said anti-connexin compound is an antisense
compound selected from the group consisting of antisense oligonucleotides, antisense
polynucleotides, deoxyribozymes, morpholino oligonucleotides, RNAi molecules, siRNA
molecules, PNA molecules, DNAzymes, and 5'-end-mutated Ul small nuclear RNAs, and
analogs of the preceding.
8. The method of form 1 wherein said anti-connexin compound is administered once.
9. The method of form 1 wherein the modulation of the hemichannel comprises inhibiting
extracellular hemichannel communication.
10. The method of any one of forms 1-4 wherein the anti-connexin compound is a peptide
comprising an amino acid sequence corresponding to a portion of a transmembrane region of
connexin 43.
11. The method of form 10 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that comprises
about 5 to about 20 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62 or SEQ ID NO:63.
12. The method of form 10 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that comprises
about 8 to about 15 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62 or SEQ ID NO:63.
13. The method of form 10 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that comprises
about 11 to about 13 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID N0:62 or SEQ ID N0:63.
                                               130
(14119622 1):KDJ

14. The method of one of forms 1-4 wherein the anti-connexin compound is a peptide
comprising an amino acid sequence corresponding to a portion of a transmembrane region of
connexin 45 is administered.
15. The method of form 14 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that comprises
about 5 to about 20 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62 or SEQ ID NO:63.
16. The method of form 14 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that comprises
about 8 to about 15 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62 or SEQ ID NO:63.
17. The method of form 14 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that comprises
about 11 to about 13 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62 or SEQ ID NO:63.
18. The method of any one of forms 1-4 wherein a hemichannel expression, formation, or
activity is inhibited in endothelial cells.
19. The method of form 1 wherein said vascular disorder is a stroke.
20. The method of form 1 wherein blood vessel die back is ameliorated.
21. The method of form 1 wherein blood vessel break down is ameliorated.
22. The method of form 1 wherein the vascular disorder is a central nervous system injury.
23. The method of form 1 wherein the vascular disorder comprises an ischemia.
24. The method of form 23 wherein the ischemia is a tissue ischemia.
25. The method of form 23 wherein the ischemia is a myocardial ischemia.
26. The method of form 23 wherein the ischemia is a cerebral ischemia.
27. The method of form 1 wherein the subject is at risk of loss of neurological function by
ischemia.
28. The method of form 1 wherein cell death or degeneration in the central or perhiperal
nervous system resulting from an ischemia is ameliorated.
29. A method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered in connection
with a vascular or coronary procedure performed on the subject.
30. A method of form 29 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered during the
vascular or coronary procedure.
31. A method of form 29 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered within about
one hour after the vascular or coronary procedure is performed.
32. A method of form 29 wherein said anti-connexin compound is administered within about
2-24 hours after the vascular or coronary procedure is performed.
33. A method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered in connection
with a heart surgery performed on a subject.
                                             131
(14119622 1):KDJ

34. A method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered in connection
with a medical device for performing a vascular procedure.
35. The method of form 1 wherein the antisense compound comprises a nucleobase sequence
selected from SEQ ID NO: 1-11.
36. The method of form 1 wherein the connexin target is selected from the group consisting
of connexins 45, 43, 26, 37, 30 and 31.1.
37. The method of form 1 wherein the connexin target is connexin 45.
38. The method of form 1 wherein the connexin target is connexin 43.
39. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is an antisense compound
targeted to at least about 8 nucleobases of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a connexin
having a nucleobase sequence selected from SEQ ID NO:12-31.
40. The method of form 39 wherein the antisense compound is an antisense oligonucleotide
of between about 15 and about 35 nucleobases in length.
41. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is an antisense compound
targeted to at least about 12 nucleobases of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a connexin
having a nucleobase sequence selected from SEQ ID NO: 12-3 1.
42. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is an antisense compound
comprising a nucleobase sequence selected from SEQ ID NO: 1-11.
43. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is an antisense
oligonucleotide comprising naturally occurring nucleobases and an unmodified
intemucleoside linkage.
44. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is an antisense
oligonucleotide comprising at least one modified intemucleoside linkage.
45. The method of form 44 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a
phosphorothioate linkage.
46. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is an antisense compound
comprising an oligonucleotide comprising at least one modified sugar moiety.
47. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is an antisense compound
comprising an oligonucleotide comprising at least one modified nucleobase.
48. A method of form 1 wherein said anti-connexin compound is administered in
combination with a second compound useful for reducing tissue damage or promoting
healing.
49. A method of form 48 wherein the second compound is a growth factor or cytokine.
                                            132
(14119622 1):KDJ

50. A method of form 49 wherein the growth factor or cytokine is selected from the group
consisting ofFGF, NGF, NT3, PDGF, TGF, VEGF, BDGF, EGF, KGF, plasmin, an integrin,
an interleukin, and a semaphorin.
51. A pharmaceutical formulation for administration in conjunction with a heart surgery, said
formulation comprising an agent capable of blocking a connexin hemichannel and a
pharmaceutically acceptable agent for a subject undergoing heart surgery.
52. The method of form 1 wherein the connexin hemichannel modulation inhibits
transmission of molecules from the cytoplasm of a cell bearing the hemichannel into an
extracellular space.
53. The method of form 1 wherein the vascular disorder is subsequent to a stroke resulting in
tissue damage.
54. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered systemically
to the subject.
55. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered intravenously
to the subject.
56. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered
intraarticularly to said subject.
57. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered
periarticularly to said subject.
58. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered intraportally
to said subject.
59. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered directly into
an organ of said subject.
60. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered into the
cerebrospinal fluid (ICSF) of said subject.
61. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered into the
cerebrospinal fluid (ICSF) of said subject.
62. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered intracranially
to said subject.
63. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered into the
spinal medulla of said subject.
64. The method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered directly into
the heart of said subject.
65. A method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered as a bolus dose.
                                            133
(14119622 1):KDJ

66. A method of form 1 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered by sustained
delivery.
67. A method of form 1 in which there is an ischemia, and wherein the anticonnexin
compound is administered for at least 72 hours post-ischemia.
68. The method of form 1 wherein the vascular disorder is selected from the group consisting
of ischemic stroke, transient ischemic attack, intracerebral hemorage, subarachnoid
hemorage, thromboembolic stroke, venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, embolic stroke,
cerebrovascular disorder, peripheral occlusive arterial disease, arteriovenous malformation,
and an aneurysm.
69. The method of form 1 wherein the vascular disorder is associated with one or more of
coronary heart disease, coronary vascular disorder, atherosclerotic vascular disease,
athersclerotic plaque rupture, and/or thromboembolic, a vascular disorder associated with
hypertension, myocardial infarction, angina, ischemic heart disease, aortic disorder,
peripheral arterial diseases, fibromuscular dysplasia, moyamo disease, or thromboangiitis.
70. The method of form 2 wherein the inflammatory disorder is selected from the group
consisting of arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), inflammation, destruction or damage of
joints, inflammatory disorder, grave's disease, hashimoto's disease, rheumatoid arthritis,
systemic lupus erythematosus, sjogrens syndrome, immune thrombocytopenic purpura,
multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, scleroderma, psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease,
crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, sepsis and septic shock, and autoimmune diseases of the
digestive system.
71. The method of form 1 or 4 wherein subject has one or more of hemostatis, thrombosis,
fibrinolysis, cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, an endocrine disorder affecting the
heart, cardiovascular disease associated with pregnancy, rheumatic fever, a cardiovascular
disorder associated with HIV-infection, a hematological or oncological disorder associated
with heart disease, a neurological disorder associated with heart disease, and a renal disorder
associated with heart disease.
72. The method of form 4 wherein the subject is treated with a transplant or grafting
procedure associated with heart failure, congenital heart disease, aquired heart disease in
children, valvular heart disease, infective endocarditis, cardiomypopathy, tumors of the heart,
pericardial heart disease, traumatic heart disease, pulmonary embolism, pulmonary
hypertension, cor pulmonale, and athletic heart syndrome, peripheral arterial circulation
disorder, vascular disorder affecting an organ system, vascular disorder affecting the central
nervous system, vascular disorder affecting the brain, vascular disorder affecting the retina,
                                                  134
(14119622 1):KDJ

vascular disorder affecting the kidney, vascular disorder affecting and nerves, microvascular
disorder, and macrovascular disorder.
73. The method of form 4 wherein the subject is treated with a transplant or grafting
procedure associated selected from one or more of a heart transplant, kidney transplant, liver
transplant, lung transplant, pancreatic transplant, intestinal transplant, or a combined organ
transplant.
74. The method of form 4 wherein the subject is treated with a transplant or grafting
procedure involves one or more of eye tissue, skin, heart valves, bones, tendons, veins,
ligaments, bone marrow transplants, dental or gum tissue, grafting or implantation associated
with cosmetic surgery, grafting or implantation associated with a hip or joint replacement
procedure, and tissue grafting or implants involving stem cells.
75. An anti-connexin mimetic peptide for use in the treatment of a subject with a vascular
disorder.
76. An anti-connexin mimetic peptide to a connexin protein for use in the treatment of a
subject with an inflammatory disorder.
77. An anti-connexin mimetic peptide to a connexin protein for use in the treatment of a
subject to prevent or inhibit tissue edema associated a transplant or grafting procedure.
                                             135
(14119622 1):KDJ

        Claims:
         1. A method for treating a vascular disorder comprising administering an anticonnexin
peptide mimetic compound to a subject in an amount capable of blocking or inhibiting the
activity of a connexin hemichannel in a tissue associated with said vascular disorder, wherein
said peptide mimetic binds to a connexin extracellular loop.
        2. A method for treating a subject for an inflammatory disorder comprising
administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of an anti-connexin peptide
mimetic compound capable of blocking or inhibiting the activity of a connexin hemichannel,
wherein said peptide mimetic binds to a connexin extracellular loop.
        3. The method of any one of claims 1 or 2 wherein said anti-connexin peptide mimetic
compound is administered once.
        4. The method of any one of claims 1 or 2 wherein the modulation of the hemichannel
comprises inhibiting extracellular hemichannel communication.
        5. The method of any one of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is a
mimetic peptide comprising an amino acid sequence corresponding to a portion of a
transmembrane region of connexin 43.
        6. The method of claim 5 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that
comprises about 5 to about 20 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62 or SEQ ID NO:63.
        7. The method of claim 5 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that
comprises about 8 to about 15 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62 or SEQ ID NO:63.
         8. The method of claim 5 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that
comprises about 11 to about 13 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62 or SEQ ID NO:63.
        9. The method of any one of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin peptide mimetic
compound is a peptide comprising an amino acid sequence corresponding to a portion of a
transmembrane region of connexin 45 is administered.
         10. The method of claim 9 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that
comprises about 5 to about 20 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62 or SEQ ID NO:63.
                                               136

        11. The method of claim 9 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that
comprises about 8 to about 15 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62 or SEQ ID NO:63.
        12. The method of claim 9 wherein said peptide has an amino acid sequence that
comprises about 11 to about 13 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:62 or SEQ ID NO:63.
        13. The method of any one of claims 1 or 2 wherein a hemichannel expression,
formation, or activity is inhibited in endothelial cells.
        14. The method of claim 1 wherein said vascular disorder is a stroke.
        15. The method of any one of claims 1 or 2 wherein blood vessel dieback is
ameliorated.
        16. The method of any one of claims 1 or 2 wherein blood vessel breakdown is
ameliorated.
        17. The method of claim 1 wherein the vascular disorder is a central nervous system
injury.
        18. The method of claim 1 wherein the vascular disorder comprises an ischemia.
        19. The method of claim 18 wherein the ischemia is a tissue ischemia.
        20. The method of claim 18 wherein the ischemia is a myocardial ischemia.
        21. The method of claim 18 wherein the ischemia is a cerebral ischemia.
        22. The method of claim 1 wherein the subject is at risk of loss of neurological
function by ischemia.
        23. The method of claim 1 wherein cell death or degeneration in the central or
peripheral nervous system resulting from an ischemia is ameliorated.
        24. A method of any one of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin peptide mimetic
compound is administered in connection with a vascular or coronary procedure performed on
the subject.
                                                137

        25. A method of claim 24 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered
during the vascular or coronary procedure.
        26. A method of claim 24 wherein the anti-connexin compound is administered within
about one hour after the vascular or coronary procedure is performed.
        27. A method of claim 24 wherein said anti-connexin compound is administered
within about 2-24 hours after the vascular or coronary procedure is performed.
        28. A method of claim 1 wherein the anti-connexin peptide mimetic compound is
administered in connection with a heart surgery performed on a subject.
        29. A method of claim 1 wherein the anti-connexin peptide mimetic compound is
administered in connection with a medical device for performing a vascular procedure.
        30. The method of claim 1 wherein the connexin target is selected from the group
consisting of connexins 45, 43, 26, 37, 30 and 31.1.
        31. The method of claim 1 wherein the connexin target is connexin 45.
        32. The method of claim 1 wherein the connexin target is connexin 43.
        33. A pharmaceutical formulation for administration in conjunction with a heart
surgery, said formulation comprising an agent capable of blocking a connexin hemichannel
and a pharmaceutically acceptable agent for a subject undergoing heart surgery.
        34. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the connexin hemichannel
modulation inhibits transmission of molecules from the cytoplasm of a cell bearing the
hemichannel into an extracellular space.
        35. The method of claim 1 wherein the vascular disorder is subsequent to a stroke
resulting in tissue damage.
        36. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered systemically to the subject.
        37. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered intravenously to the subject.
                                              138

        38. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered intraarticularly to said subject.
        39. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered periarticularly to said subject.
        40. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered intraportally to said subject.
        41. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered directly into an organ of said subject.
        42. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered into the cerebrospinal fluid (ICSF) of said subject.
        43. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered intracranially to said subject.
        44. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered into the spinal medulla of said subject.
        45. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered directly into the heart of said subject.
        46. A method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered as a bolus dose.
        47. A method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the anti-connexin compound is
administered by sustained delivery.
        48. A method of any of claims 1 or 2 in which there is an ischemia, and wherein the
anticonnexin compound is administered for at least 72 hours post-ischemia.
        49. The method of claim 1 wherein the vascular disorder is selected from the group
consisting of ischemic stroke, transient ischemic attack, intracerebral hemorage, subarachnoid
hemorage, thromboembolic stroke, venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, embolic stroke,
cerebrovascular disorder, peripheral occlusive arterial disease, arteriovenous malformation,
and an aneurysm.
                                               139

        50. The method of claim 1 wherein the vascular disorder is associated with one or
more of coronary heart disease, coronary vascular disorder, atherosclerotic vascular disease,
athersclerotic plaque rupture, and/or thromboembolic, a vascular disorder associated with
hypertension, myocardial infarction, angina, ischemic heart disease, aortic disorder,
peripheral arterial diseases, fibromuscular dysplasia, moyamo disease, or thromboangiitis.
        51. The method of claim 2 wherein the inflammatory disorder is selected from the
group consisting of arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), inflammation, destruction or damage
of joints, inflammatory disorder, grave's disease, hashimoto's disease, rheumatoid arthritis,
systemic lupus erythematosus, sjogrens syndrome, immune thrombocytopenic purpura,
multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, scleroderma, psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease,
crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, sepsis and septic shock, and autoimmune diseases of the
digestive system.
        52. The method of claim 1 wherein the subject has one or more of hemostatis,
thrombosis, fibrinolysis, cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, an endocrine disorder
affecting the heart, cardiovascular disease associated with pregnancy, rheumatic fever, a
cardiovascular disorder associated with HIV-infection, a hematological or oncological
disorder associated with heart disease, a neurological disorder associated with heart disease,
and a renal disorder associated with heart disease.
        53. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the vascular disorder is a a vascular
disorder affecting an organ system, a vascular disorder affecting the central nervous system, a
vascular disorder affecting the brain, a vascular disorder affecting the retina, a vascular
disorder affecting the kidney, a vascular disorder affecting and nerves, a microvascular
disorder, or a macrovascular disorder.
        54. The method of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein the vascular disorder or inflammation
involves eye tissue.
        55. An anti-connexin mimetic peptide for use in the treatment of a subject with a
vascular disorder.
        56. An anti-connexin mimetic peptide to a connexin protein for use in the treatment of
a subject with an inflammatory disorder.
                                                140

        57. An anti-connexin mimetic peptide to a connexin protein for use in the treatment of
a subject to prevent or inhibit tissue edema associated with a vascular disorder.
        58. An anti-connexin mimetic peptide to a connexin protein for use in the treatment of
a subject to prevent or inhibit tissue edema associated with inflammation.
        59. The method of claim 1 wherein the vascular disorder is a vascular disorder
affecting the retina.
        60. The method of claim 1 wherein the vascular disorder is a vascular disorder is
diabetes.
        61. The method of claim 1 wherein the vascular disorder is a vascular disorder is
damage resulting from elevated levels of glucose.
        62. The method of claim 1 wherein the vascular disorder is a vascular disorder is
diabetic retinopathy.
        63. The method of claim 1 wherein the vascular disorder is a vascular disorder is
macular degeneration.
        64. An anti-connexin mimetic peptide to a connexin protein for use in the treatment of
a subject with a vascular disorder affecting the retina.
        65. An anti-connexin mimetic peptide to a connexin protein for use in the treatment of
a subject with diabetic retinopathy.
        66. An anti-connexin mimetic peptide to a connexin protein for use in the treatment of
a subject with macular degeneration.
                                   CoDa Therapeutics Limited
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                               141

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
