                                     ABSTRACT
                The present invention discloses a process for the concentration
   and purification of carotenoids from waste fibers from whole cashew juice
   production under controlled conditions and without the use of any organic
 5 solvent. The process involves a pre-macerating the cashew fibers with the
   use of cell-structure-disaggregating enzymes, which act on the fibrous tissue
   in combination with controlled pressing operations in successive aqueous
   extraction cycles. The concentration of the crude extract obtained by
   maceration/pressing takes place at room temperature with the use of
10 tangential-flow microfiltration membranes. The concentrated product is then
   processed using diafiltration techniques in order to purify it, thereby removing
   the majority of the undesirable components and promoting the microbial and
   biochemical degradation thereof. The final concentrate has a potential use as
   a coloring in foods for human consumption and in animal feed, being
15 applicable in the areas of ready-to-drink juices and beverages owing to its
   significant solubility in water.

                                             1
   Specification     of     Patent   of   Invention:  "CONCENTRATION           AND
   PURIFICATION           OF     EXTRACT       OBTAINED       FROM        CASHEW
   PSEUDOFRUIT WASTES AND PRODUCTS WITH A HIGH CAROTENOID
   CONTENT".
 5
   The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
   application number <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional application from
   Australian patent application number 2013252503, which claims priority from
   Brazilian basic application No. BR102012009761-3, filed 26 April 2012, which
10 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                 The present invention belongs to the field of industrial processes
   for the extraction and purification of molecules of commercial interest,
15 describing the production of extracts containing carotenoids and other
   substances of interest from wastes of cashew processing            by means of
   techniques that involve pressing, optionally enzymatic maceration            and
   filtration (micro- or ultrafiltration), as well as diafiltration. The process
   proposed by the developed technology allows production of a yellow coloring
20 extract, a product that can be obtained from industrial wastes of large-scale
   cashew juice production. In this way, such concentrated and purified extract
   of cashew carotenoids represents a value aggregation to a byproduct needed
   by the entire food sector to meet the world demands of natural colorings.
   Generally, yellow coloring used in Brazil have a synthetic origin and available
25 natural yellows present an orange coloration, differently from what is
   obtained by means of the present technology, which is bright light yellow,
   owing to its composition containing xanthophylles, whose predominant color
   is light yellow.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
30               Industrial   processes for the extraction    and   purification of
   molecules of commercial interest, as a coloring, an antioxidant or a molecule
   with specific properties for the use in human nutrition and diet have been the

                                       1a
  target of numerous scientific and academic works as well as of requests of
  applications for patents worldwide.
              Patent document PI 0002359-0 discloses a process of high
  vacuum evaporation and distillation for extraction and concentration of
5 liposoluble vitamins and provitamins, including carotenoids, starting from
  byproduct materials deriving from plant and animal product industrialization.
  This state of the art document describes a process to concentrate

                                           2
   non-saponifiable    substances,     comprising    of  liposoluble  vitamins    and
   provitamins, growing factors and plant and animal hormones, called
   "products of value", obtained from plant or animal products, or from wastes of
   the industrialization of such products, without the need for solvents. The
 5 process comprises extraction and concentration of said products by
   evaporation/distillation and the production of fatty acids and other high quality
   organic      acids,    by    hydrolysis   of     the     wastes   obtained      by
   distillation/evaporation.
                 Paten   document     PI 0507797-4      describes a process       and
10 equipment for diafiltration of thickened fruit juices. The product to be filtrated
   is submitted to a filtration process. A first flow of wash fluid (water) and a
   second flow of a product permeate itself (flow driven back through the
   filtering means used) are added, thus the product flow is diluted by the first
   and second flow before entering the membranes system.
15               Patent document WO 2004094350 also describes a method for
   carotenoids extraction from plant material by means of supercritical fluid
   extraction. In this document, supercritical fluid extraction is processed in two
   steps. The first extract includes p-carotene production; the second extract
   may have a controlled p-carotene concentration and furthermore it includes
20 substantial quantities of lutein.
                 This process (WO 2004094350) exhibits significant differences
   from the process presented by the present invention, which does not include
   any heating or cryogenic step, and is a mass of industrial fibrous waste
   derived from cashew stalks pressing, however, it does not undergo trituration
25 and/or enzymatic inactivation. The process presented describes a sequence
   of single operations and processes which, altogether, aims at concentrating
   and purifying a carotenoid-enriched extract under mild conditions which
   maximize the yield and purity of the final product. On the other hand, the
   application for patent under analysis refers to the production of a purified
30 carotenoids extract from carrots and other triturated vegetables which are
   thermally treated for bleaching. In this case, a set of operations and
   processes is claimed, especially those for the production of a carotenoid-

                                            3
   enriched mass, mainly beta-carotene, by initially producing heating for
   enzymatic inactivation (bleaching), followed by successive triturations in
   different meshes to obtain a fine granulometric mass to be then treated with
   enzymatic liquefaction and by release of carotenoids in aqueous medium. In
 5 the following     phase, this mass is applied on          membranes        for pre
   concentration and thus filtered by one or two volumes and water to eliminate
   hydrosoluble compounds. At the end of such diafiltration step, the resulting
   mass is frozen and immediately defrosted to attain the final carotenoids
   concentration       and     the    final   mass     is   treated      with     flash
10 pasteurization in order to acquire microbiological and biochemical stability.
                 Therefore, unlike the present invention, a trituration system of the
   vegetal material is described in the referred document, treating the material
   aggressively with respect to the content of interest and it should be noted that
   carotenoids are highly sensible to temperatures above 65 2C, even at low pH
15 as it is indicated in the description thereof. Furthermore, unlike the document
   itself, the present patent application does not include heating above this
   temperature and none of the steps of the process in general, as such
   procedure degrades carotenoids molecules significantly and promotes a loss
   of product quality. Moreover, in the process of the present invention there is
20 no need for cryoconcentration since, the process proposed by the present
   invention, which involves the filtration step on microporous membranes,
   promotes a volume reduction up to 30 times, and thus, it is more efficient.
                 Similarly, patent document PI 0605425-0 describes a process of
   extraction and purification in series of active substances with coloring
25 capacity from solid matrixes by using supercritical extraction with C02 for
   colorings     production deriving from bixin from annatto. The referred process
   uses extraction and purification steps by means of adsorption and elution
   columns equipped with extractor and fractionator mounted in series that can
   be used in series or in batches. This process uses an aqueous solution as
30 solvent, which at the end of the process is evaporated at temperatures
   between 30 and 7 00C in order not to degrade bixin.
                 The recovery of mixed carotenoids from microalgae (Dunaliella

                                             4
   salina) is described in patent document WO 98/28082. This document
   describes a process in which collected cells are broken and the algal
   suspension circulates in high pressure by vigorous pumping. Cells can be
   dehydrated by means of techniques of separation bubble adsorption,
 5 including a flotation circuit, having a thinning zone and a concentration zone.
   If a higher carotenoids concentration is required, the algae concentrate can
   be filtered in a tangential-flow microfiltration unit, free of flocculant agents
   without losing carotenoids in the permeate.
                Patent document PI 0006126-3 presents an extraction process of
10 carotenoids and other antioxidants from previously pressed and incubated
   plant tissues. The molecules of interest are recovered by precipitations and
   thermal treatments, mainly heating followed by quick cooling; in this way, an
   extract containing carotenoids is recovered as a precipitate.
                Patent document PI 0416795-3 presents as subject matter an
15 integrated process for the extraction          and purification of tocopherols,
   carotenoids and sterols from plant oils by means of alcohol esterification
   processes. The specification of the referred patent reports as one of the
   advantage of the use of such a process the production of an enriched and
   purified product, free of factors of substantial decomposition of these
20 components of interest, such as sugars that are eliminated by dialysis.
                Besides the cited documents, patent document PI 0103885-0
   presents as subject matter the production of a cashew bagasse extract rich in
   pigments, obtained by a process comprising humidification of cashew
   bagasse waste from juice extraction, pressing of the resulting mixture,
25 separation of the extract        from solids    and concentration    thereof by
   centrifugation and filtration operations.
                The present application for protection represents a development
   of the technique presented in PI 0103885-0, having the same ownership and
   authorship of the present application, by pooling it with essential steps in
30 order to obtain a product with higher quality and by employing technologies
   that     allow a continuous optimization of its processing.
                Therefore, unlike state of the art documents, the present

                                           5
development intends to complement the production of a crude extract obtained
from cashew wastes with new processing technologies that involve pooling the
steps of pressing, enzymatic maceration and filtration techniques employing
membranes       in specific sequential steps, for the production of a final
concentrated and purified extract suitable for industrial use from which various
substances of commercial interest are isolated, from colorings to dietary
supplements. Furthermore, the state of the art does not introduce an equivalent
solution for processing cashew wastes crude extracts and it fails to describe a
synergic process, such as the one introduced by the present invention, in which the
fruit extract or waste undergoes integrated pre-treatments, such as pressing and
enzymatic maceration aiming at optimizing the production of compounds of
interest at the end of the process associated to final filtration and diafiltration
processes, which generate a product of high purity.
              The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and
the like is included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a
context for the present invention. It is not suggested or represented that any or
all of these matters formed part of the prior art base or were common general
knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the
priority date of each claim of this application.
              Where    the  terms    "comprise",     "comprises",     "comprised" or
"comprising" are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be
interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or
components, but not precluding the presence of one or more other features,
integers, steps or components, or group thereof.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
              The present invention describes a process for concentration and
purification of carotenoids extracts from cashew stalk fibers for the use as
natural yellow coloring with the use of microfiltration diafiltration membranes.
              In one aspect, the present invention provides a process for the
concentration and purification of the extract obtained from cashew pseudofruit
waste and product with a high carotenoid content comprising the steps of
washing cashew processing waste; successive pressing of the materials
comprised of cashew waste fibers; and filtration of the total liquid phase;

                                           5a
comprising the steps of: A) pressing a crude aqueous extract (A); B) sieving of
the crude aqueous extract (B); and C) concentration and purification of the
aqueous extract on microfiltration microporous membranes (C).
               The proposed process occurs under controlled conditions without
using any organic solvent, involving, optionally, pre-maceration of the cashew
fibers with the use of cell-structure-disaggregating      enzymes (pectinases,
amylases, cellulases and hemicellulases), acting on the fibrous tissues in
combination with controlled pressing operations in successive aqueous
extraction cycles. The concentration of the unprocessed extract obtained by
maceration/pressing takes place at room temperature by using tangential-flow
micro and/or ultrafiltration ceramic membranes. The concentrated product is
then treated with membrane diafiltration techniques, thereby removing the
majority of the undesirable components and those favoring its deterioration. The
final concentrate has a potential use as a coloring in foods for human
consumption and in animal feed, being applicable in the areas of ready-to-drink
juices and beverages owing to its considerable solubility in water. Based on the
properties of some carotenoids present in the final concentrated and purified
extract, it is estimated that this material has a

                                            6
   potential applicability in the area of dietary supplements as provitamin A and
   antioxidants for food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                Figure 1: it shows schematically the general steps of the process
 5 in a flowchart. The alphanumeric symbols displayed therein have the
   following correspondence:
                E0: waste fibers from cashew stalk processing;
               A: pressing;
                Ml: addition of enzymes for maceration of the extract to be
10 pressed (optional);
                El: intermediate crude aqueous extract;
                B: sieving;
                E2: crude aqueous extract;
                C: filtration on micro- and/or ultrafiltration and diafiltration porous
15 membranes; and
                E3: final concentrated and purified extract.
                Figure 2: it shows schematically the general steps of the process
   in a flowchart with emphasis on the optimized step of pressing. Alphanumeric
   symbols displayed therein possess the following correspondence:
20              MO: cashew fiber mass for juice production;
               AO: pressing for juice production;
                SO: produced whole juice;
                EC: waste fibers from cashew stalk processing;
                M: Enzymatic maceration (optional);
25              Ml: addition of enzymes for maceration of the extract to be
   pressed (optional);
               A: pressing step of E0 extract;
               Al; A2; A3; A4; A5 and A6: pressing cycles of E0 extract;
                Fl; F2; F3; F4; F5 and F6: waste fibers of each pressing cycle;
30              Sl; S2; S3; S4; S5 and S6: aqueous extract of each pressing
   cycle;
                El: intermediate crude aqueous extract;

                                               7
                 B: sieving;
                 E2: crude aqueous extract;
                 C: filtration on micro- and/or ultrafiltration and diafiltration porous
   membranes; and
 5               E3: final concentrated and purified extract.
                 Figure      3:  schematic     representation   of   a   screw       press.
   Alphanumeric         symbols     displayed     therein    possess    the     following
   correspondence:
                 EC: waste fibers from cashew stalk processing;
10               R: waste fibers outlets of each pressing cycle;
                 El: intermediate aqueous crude extract;
                 V: rotation speed control; and
                 F: applied force control.
                 Figure 4: it shows a scheme of the pilot unit of membrane
15 diafiltration operation. The aphanumeric symbols displayed therein have the
   following correspondence:
                 1: water;
                 2: retained;
                 4A: feeding tank;
20               5A; 5B; 5C and 5D: membranes system unites;
                 3A; 3B; 3C and 3D: permeate outlets; and
                 4B: permeate recovery tank.
                 Figure 5: it shows a scheme of the pilot unit of membrane
   diafiltration   operation     detailing   the    equipment    composing       it.   The
25 alphanumeric symbols displayed therein have the following correspondence:
                 3A; 3B; 3C and 3D: permeate outlets;
                 4A: feeding tank;
                 5A; 5B; 5C and 5D: membranes system unites;
                 6A: fluid inlet of the heat exchanger;
30               6B: fluid outlet of the heat exchanger;
                 7A; 7B and 7C: manometer;
                 8: thermometer;

                                             8
                  9A: purge valve;
                  9B: transmembrane pressure control valve;
                  10: heat exchanger; and
                  11: pump.
 5                Figure 6: flowchart of the permeate (L.h .m- 2 ) as a function of the
   volume reduction factor for different transmembrane pressures (Tmp).
                  Figure 7: flowchart of the permeate (L.h .m- 2 ) as a function of the
   concentration factor for two different situations - with and without pectinase
   addition - during the whole concentration step (filtration micro- and/or
10 ultrafiltration porous membrane and dialysis).
                  Figure 8: it shows four charts, wherein (8-1) is the evolution of
   volume reduction factor (VRF), (8-Il) or reduced diavolume (RD), (8-Ill)
   permeate flow (PF) density and (8-IV) the soluble solids content (SSC),
   respectively, as a function of time in the concentration process of E2 extract
15 for two different situations - with and without pectinase addition.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
                  The present patent application of invention differs from the state
   of the art in that it proposes a process combining concentration and
   purification by diafiltration with the usual techniques for extract purification
20 from cashew fiber crude extracts.
                  The present process allows the production on an industrial scale
   of a viscous and bright yellow liquid for different uses, such as natural
   coloring and antioxidant in food, cosmetic and pharmaceutic industry.
                  The subject matter of this patent application consists of a set of
25 operations that aims at obtaining a concentrate of carotenes and xanthophyll,
   with emphasis on auroxanthin in cis and trans form, p-cryptoxanthin,
   mutatoxanthin and zeaxanthin. Following the aforementioned, p-carotene
   and lutein come next in order of importance, as they have a composition
   enriched with several other carotenoids.
30                The    proposed    process    comprises   the     following    steps,
   corresponding to the information contained in Figure 1:
                  A) Obtaining a carotenoid crude aqueous extract, El, from

                                              9
   waste fibers from cashew stalk processing, EO, by means of pressing. In this
   step, enzymatic treatment is optional and it can take place by addition of cell
   structure-disaggregating enzymes (pectinases, amylases, cellulases and
   hemicellulases) (Ml);
 5                B) Sieving of the intermediate crude extract obtained (El)
   aiming at an initial standardization to avoid issues concerning an excessive
   increase in viscosity in the final phases of membranes processing, thus E2
   crude extract is obtained;
                  C) Concentration of the obtained crude extract, E2, by means of
10 techniques of microfiltration on porous membranes, reaching values of
   concentration factor between 2 and 30 times; and subsequent elimination of
   the soluble dry extract (sugars, hydrosoluble minerals and vitamins)
   contained in the concentrated extract through a process of diafiltration on
   micro- or ultrafiltration porous membranes, thus increasing the purity of
15 present carotenoids         and promoting the microbiological and biochemical
   stability. The resulting product of (C) is the final concentrated extract E3.
                  Considering that the pH of the crude extract (E2) is already in a
   range between 3.5 and 5.0, there is no need for a correction of this value in
   order to attain a major stability of carotenoids present in the final
20 concentrated and purified extract.
                  The first step of the process (A) for producing the crude extract is
   based on the optimization of the process proposed by Brazilian patent
   document PI 0103885-0. Therefore, the described technological development
   involves the use of such extract for the operation/process of concentration
25 and     purification   aiming    to  obtain  a   product   with  high   carotenoid
   concentrations.
                  Before the start of the process, cashews are harvested and taken
   to a reception area of the processing unit, where chestnuts are withdrawn
   immediately, and the stalks are separated to be selected and washed for
30 withdrawal from dirt and unwanted components for juice processing.
                  Afterwards, the stalks are directly pressed in an expeller-type or
   screw press, typical of cashew juice and cajuina processing in processing

                                            10
   units in the Northeast of Brazil. In this step, about 80% of whole juice and
   20% of waste fibers are produced, as described in PI 0103885-0. Thus, these
   fibers (EO) are humidified in the ratio from one to two parts of fibers for each
   part of water to be pressed.
 5               After that, the process introduced by the present technology
   begins, with step (A) referring to a series of pressing on E0 in order to obtain
   the intermediate extract (E2).       In this step, commercial enzymes with
   pectinolytic, amylolytic and cellulolytic activity may be added or not in order to
   increase the yield of pressing, if needed. The addition of enzymes may be
10 up to 0.5% of the mess of fibers, the used value usually being 0.2%.
                 After crude extract E2 is obtained, it is taken to step (B), where it
   is treated in sieves with meshes between 0.1 and 1.0 mm, aiming at an initial
   standardization to avoid issues of excessive increase in viscosity in the final
   phases of membranes processing.
15               The processing of the crude extract by filtration on microporous
   membranes is then carried out in (C) aiming at initially reducing the water
   that was added during the enzyme-assisted extraction in the previous phase,
   if this has occurred. Afterwards, step (C) is processed into distinct phases: a
   first phase (Cl) in which the volume of the feeding tank (1A) is kept constant
20 until the concentration of the crude extract reaches VRF (volume reduction
   factor) between 2 and 30 or until depletion of crude extract volume to be
   added, wherein in this moment it begins a phase (C2) of concentration with
   maximum      reduction of the volume of concentrated extract within the
   recirculation system, herein called retained, until the lowest recirculation limit
25 in the set of membranes. In this situation, aeration of the retained should be
   avoided, and a volume that does not allow aeration by recirculation pump
   should be kept. Therefore, a cold pre-concentration is promoted, using the
   technology of filtration on aluminum oxide microporous membranes, or
   simply aluminum, wherein other materials may be possibly used. These
30 membranes have the capacity of totally retaining carotenoids and other
   hydrophobic molecules and, due to this characteristic, they are employed as
   a means of retention of the carotenoids contained in the extract.

                                            11
                 Therefore, in this last step (C), following C1 and C2, in which an
   initial pre-concentration phase takes place and the concentration factor is
   increased until a recirculation within the system in the lowest limit of the
   feeding tank of the microfiltration unit, a phase C3 is processed, with the
 5 purification of the concentrated extract obtained after C1 and C2 by the
   execution of the process of diafiltration on microfiltration membranes.
                 Thus, what is retained at the end of (C2) undergoes diafiltration
   (C3) with volume of pure water (diavolume) added until the desired soluble
   solids content (2Brix) is reached.
10               The entire operation is carried out under temperature conditions
   between 10 e 502C aiming at maintaining the functional properties of
   carotenoids that will be obtained as a concentrated solution purified by
   diafiltration at the end of the process.
                 Due to the presence of low fermentable sugars concentration,
15 the obtained product may be stored at refrigeration temperatures for later
   use.
                 The final product may also be thermally treated to provide a
   longer durability, although the use of heat is avoided along the entire
   process, as it deteriorates the carotenoid content, modifying its molecular
20 profile and consequently its provitaminic and antioxidant activity. On the other
   hand, even if it is thermally treated, the final product has a high coloring
   power for use in the food and pharmaceutical field.
                 The carotenoid concentrate (E3) obtained has the characteristics
   of being an aqueous extract, in the form of a bright yellow emulsion with the
25 capacity of coloring juices in a yellow and yellow-orange tonality for the use
   in food and beverages. In this way, the product may be used as a natural
   yellow food coloring; a natural antioxidant in the form             of capsules
   (nutraceutics); provitamin A and fractioning to isolate carotenoid groups with
   specific functions is still possible.
30               With regard to step (C), it is important to characterize the pilot
   unit of tangential microfiltration, represented schematically in Figures 4 and
   5, in which the used solvent is water.

                                            12
                The microfiltration unit has a set of four membranes, preferably
   made of aluminum oxide (Membralox*), where other types of membrane may
   be used optionally, in order not to limit the embodiment of the invention to
   this one.   Its feeding tank (4A) has 3L to 10L capacity with four modules
 5 arranged in series, each one containing a ceramic membrane with a filtration
   area from 0.0001 to 0.0900 M2 , in preferred embodiments at least 0.0055 m2
   and a porous diameter from 0.01 pm to 0.5 pm, ideally 0.2 pm. The
   pressures of the four microfiltration sections are: P1 = 2.75 bar; P2 = 2.25
   bar; P3 = 1.75 bar and P4 = 1.25 bar, wherein all of them, as well as the
10 system pressure, can vary from 0.5 to 10.0 bar. Based on the presented
   data, the embodiments of the invention involve resizing on the basis of the
   same parameters, which use the base concept to treat the desired volumes
   of cashew stalk wastes.
                A progressive cavity pump (Moineau) whose power attains at
15 least 1.0 CV, being higher or lower as a function of the amount of matter to
   be processed, is represented in item (11)           of Figure 5, allows liquid
   pressurization and its tangential-flow in the system. Tangential speed is fixed
   at a value from 1 m.s     1 to 10 m.s   1 and what is retained is continuously
   circulated in the filtration system. The dead volume of the system is
20 calculated as 1.3 L for a feeding tank with a 3 L capacity, distributed in the
   construction elements (pumps, pipes, membranes and tray).
                The microfiltration unit allows controlling a series of parameters,
   among which: transmembrane pressure, general temperature of the system,
   tangential speed and, as set out, the phase involving diafiltration itself follows
25 a model comprising three phases, equivalent to C1, C2 and C3 described
   before: (1) pre-concentration, at constant volume (Cl); (2) concentration at
   variable volume (C2); and (3) diafiltration/purification at constant volume
   (C3).
                The general processing conditions for carotenoids purification
30 from waste fibers from cashew stalk processing involve checks of different
   operational parameters. The temperature was checked by means of a heat
   exchanger (10), as indicated in Figure 5, installed in the recirculation circuit of

                                             13
   what is retained by power usage in a jacket external to stainless pipes with
   cold or hot water aiming at obtaining a temperature stabilization at the
   required range, which is from 38 to       4 2 2C. When working with carotenoids,
   this temperature may be further broadened to a range varying from 10 to
 5 852C, depending on the purpose given to the final desired product. Based on
   metabolic pathways of carotenoid degradation, a further interest may exist in
   specific molecules that are degrading products possessing coloring activity
   that is more pronounced than in its natural state and, in other cases, the
   needs for maintaining the integrity of the molecule. Thus, according to the
10 target product lower or higher temperatures are used. The tangential speed
   was fixed by means of rotation control of the engine of the used pump (11),
   also shown in Figure 5, wherein it can be controlled through the use of
   frequency inverters for increasing or decreasing this velocity as a function of
   the nature of the treated material (either more viscous or less viscous). And
15 transmembrane pressure is controlled by means of a final control valve of
   inlet (9A) and outlet (9B) pressure of the pilot system, indicated in Figure 5.
   Depending on mechanical resistance of the used membrane, more or less
   flow speed of the retained may be used, thus increasing drag and, as a
   consequence, the self-cleaning process of the filtration surfaces, favoring an
20 increase of average permeate flow. In this case, an average transmembrane
   pressure from 1 to 5 bar in the system, preferably 2.7 bar, is recommended,
   due to the characteristics of the system and of the pump driving the motive
   power; however, such pressure can be adjusted to other values according to
   the needs/capacities of the production system.
25               The option for diafiltration system at constant volume was
   established with a view to optimizing the use of water as a component of
   diafiltration (solvent). As this natural resource is scarce in those regions
   where cashew is grown and the presented system promotes a reduced use
   of water, there is a significant gain in the process. However, the use of the
30 diafiltration system at a variable volume for extract and cashew fibers is not
   excluded.
                 Therefore, it is crucial to note that this technology is viable for a

                                           14
   great range of applications and equipment suitable for use, as well as
   operational parameters, Thus, they are not restricted to those presented in
   the examples and/or descriptions of the present invention.
   EXAMPLES
 5               The present invention is further explored by the following
   examples.
   Example 1 - Production of purified carotenoid extract.
                 A crude aqueous carotenoid extract was obtained, represented in
   Figure 1 as El, from waste fibers from cashew stalks processing (EO) and by
10 means of six consecutive pressing cycles, as indicated in Figures 1 and 2 by
   operation (A), which includes the addition of pectinases, as shown in Figure 2
   by operation (M). Water was added to the mass of cashew fibers (MO) (1:1
   mass/mass) and subjected to pressing in a INCOMAP-300 model press (300
   kg.h- 1 nominal capacity) for juice production, which resulted in waste crude
15 extract (EO) and whole juice (SO). Afterwards, water and pectinases (500
   mg.kg- 1 of pectinase Pectinex SP-L -      Ultrazymes*) were added to waste
   fibers (EO) and the material was homogenized. The temperature was kept at
   values from 50 to 55LC and the same press was used (2500 N force) to
   submit    the    material  to  six consecutive    pressing   cycles,   with   the
20 reincorporation of the extracts (S1 to S5) and the mass of fibers (F1 to F6)
   obtained in each of the pressing (A) step (Al to A6), as illustrated in Figure 2.
   Figure 3 shows a schematic representation of the press used.
                 After pressing, an emulsion presenting a yellow coloration due to
   the presence of carotenoids was obtained. Such emulsion was filtrated on
25 stainless steel sieves with 0.30 mm mesh in order to remove suspended
   particles. The extract obtained after sieving, E2, is called crude aqueous
   extract, and was stored under refrigeration (-2 0 C) in packages of low density
   polyethylene for storage prior to concentration process (C).
                 The subsequent concentration step (C)         employs tangential
30 microfiltration techniques. A four-membrane system MEMBRALOX (PALL
   EXEKIA), with 0.22 m2 filtration area and 0.2 pm porous diameter, made of
   aluminum oxide of the monotubular type was used. The system pressure was

                                           15
   2.75 bar, the temperature being set at 4 0C (±2 2C). The process was carried
   out under a concentration factor equals to 13. The concentration by means of
   techniques of microfiltration on microporous membranes was conducted in
   three phases: a first phase in which the volume of the feeding tank is kept
 5 constant until the depletion of the volume of the crude extract, wherein in this
   moment a concentration phase begins with maximum reduction of the
   volume of the concentrated extract within the recirculation system, herein
   called "retained", until the lowest recirculation limit in the set of membranes;
   and the third phase in which diafiltration on microfiltration microporous
10 membranes takes place with the addition of pure water volume until a soluble
   solids content between 20 and 30 2Brix is reached.
                 The operation yield deriving from 1000 kg cashew stalks is about
   from 30 to 40 kg of concentrated diafiltrate (E3).
                 Total carotenoid contents of both the intermediate crude extract
15 (El) and the final concentrated extract (E3) were analyzed by liquid
   chromatography, as shown in Table 1.
   Table 1 - Carotenoid content (mg.kg- 1) in the crude extract of cashew fibers
   (El) obtained in six consecutive pressing cycles and in the final concentrated
   extract (E3).
                                   Crude      Extract
   Carotenoids                     (E1)                 Concentrated Extract (E3)
   Auroxanthin (cis and trans)     3.08                 16.10
   Mutatoxanthin trans             0.62                 2.50
   Lutein                          1.04                 4.70
   Mutatoxanthin cis               1.25                 6.30
   Zeaxanthin                      1.10                 5.60
   Cis antheraxanthin              0.20                 0.80
   p-Cryptoxanthin                 1.52                 8.00
   13-cis-p-carotene               0.13                 0.70
   a-Carotene                      0.09                 0.60
   p-carotene                      0.52                 2.50

                                            16
   Others                           0.85               6.40
   Total Carotenoids                10.40              54.20
   Example 2 - Comparison between extraction with and without the use of
   enzymes.
                 100 kg batches of crude fibers (EO) were used and pressed with
   an INCOMAP 300 press in six pressing cycles. The extracts were submitted
 5 to two processes: the first (I), with 500 mg.kg- 1 commercial pectinase
   (Pectinex SP-L -       Ultrazymes*) and, the second (II), without addition of
   pectinase, the other operational conditions kept as the established optimized
   conditions provided by the process proposed by the present invention.
                 In both processes of this example (I and II) 20 L of crude extract
10 resulting from the described pressing were used, which underwent three
   phases in (C): pre-concentration with a decreasing concentration of feeding
   tank volume and; a final diafiltration step. Diafiltration begins when the
   system attains a lower circulation volume of what is retained, and starting
   from this point, the circulating volume is kept constant until the end of the
15 process. The system employed has a feeding tank of 3.0 L capacity.
                 Therefore, pre-concentration was initially carried at constant
   volume of feeding tank, wherein the concentration factor attained values of
   about 5 and after a second concentration phase with a decrease of tank
   volume to the least possible volume, when the concentration factor reaches
20 its maximum value, but without damaging the carotenoid content. After
   reaching the maximum concentration factor in the microfiltration system, a
   final phase of purification by diafiltration of what is retained is conducted at
   the limit condition of circulating volume, which is about from 1.3 to 1.5 L in
   the microfiltration pilot unit.
25               In all the phases of the process, the adopted operational
   conditions were: feeding temperature of crude extract of 4 0C (± 2), average
   transmembrane pressure of 2.75 bar (± 0,3) and speed of de 6.0 m.s- 1.
                 In this example, the parameter addressed in step (C) is
   explained. The used method consisted of an initial pre-concentration phase
30 which increased the concentration factor to a system recirculation at the

                                           17
   lowest limit of the feeding tank of the microfiltration pilot unit, followed by the
   purification phase of the concentrated extract by diafiltration on microfiltration
   membranes, as presented above. Furthermore, samples for the analysis of
   the global process performance were collected every 10 minutes, wherein
 5 aliquots of permeate were collected and the volumes in precision graduated
   test tubes submitted to physicochemical were measured.                   During the
   diafiltration phase, in each sample of permeate an equivalent volume of
   distilled water was replenished to keep total soluble solids content close to
   zero at the end of the process, so as to promote an increase in the purity of
10 carotenoids present in the final concentrate.
                 Both in (I) and (II), the global process for concentration and
   dialysis of the 20 liters used in each of the experiments took about 10 hours
   per essay. Such method led to the production of a concentrated extract that
   could reach concentration factors in the order of 20 to 30 times when
15 compared with the initial volume used in the concentration phase, with good
   performances of permeate flow kept even when high values of volume
   reduction factor (VRF) were reached.
                 Besides (I) and (II) essays, intermediate works were conducted
   in   experimental    phases which     involved    treatments    with     pectinolytic,
20 cellulolytic and amylolytic enzymes with the purpose of investigating the
   behavior of the process when the extract is submitted or not to a pre
   treatment before carrying out the concentration operation. Permeate flows
   were high in all treatments; however, values were more significant in
   treatments with pectinase and amylase. Therefore, further works with
25 diafiltration step carried out with the use of enzymes are recommended.
   Permeate flows in this step still remained at the same highest levels, since
   diafiltration consists of adding a solvent (in this case, water was added,
   although other solvents may be used) to eliminate the hydrosoluble
   components that may produce subsequent problems, such as fermentations
30 and chemical and biochemical interactions with the components of interest.
   In this step, permeate flows remained in the range of 130 L.h- .m- 2 for
   treatments with enzyme and of 80 L.h- .m- 2 for treatments without enzymes.

                                                18
                    Table 2 shows a global average of all the parameters observed in
    the process of concentration and purification by diafiltration of the aqueous
    extract rich in carotenoids obtained from waste fibers of cashew stalks of
    whole juice processing for (1)and (11).
 5  Table 2 - Global average of all the observed parameters in the process of
    concentration and purification by diafiltration.
   Parameters of the Process and Main             Containing 500 mg.kg 1  Without
   Results                                        of pectinase (1)        pectinase (11)
   Feeding volume (mL)                            20000.00                20000.00
   Feeding tank volume (mL)                       3000.00                 3000.00
   Volume in diafiltration (mL)                   1320.00                 1170.00
   Volume       of   water    already   used  in 5889.20                  5552.60
   diafiltration (mL)
   Average permeate flow (L.h-1 .m- 2)            130.80                  80.40
   Volume Reduction Factor - VRF                  19.06                   17.80
   Initial Soluble Dry Extract (g.L-1)            52.00                   52.00
   Final Soluble dry Extract (g.100 mL-1)         2.00                    5.00
   Initial total dry matter (g.L-1)               64.80                   64.70
   Final total dry matter (g.L-1)                 256.80                  237.80
   Initial insoluble dry matter (g.L-1)           12.80                   12.50
   Final insoluble dry matter (g.L-1)             244.00                  223.00
   Total carotenoids - initial (g.L-1) *          0.38 x1 0-2             0.33x1 0-2
   Total carotenoids- final (g.L-1) *             0.73 x10-1              0.53x10-1
    * Analyses     in triplicate
                    Additionally, the variations of the physicochemical characteristics
    observed in the final product of diafiltration (final concentrated extract) by
10  using (I) are shown in brief in Table 3. From the results, it was possible to
    reach in the final extract (E3) concentrations of its constituents up to 10 times
    higher than those contained in the crude extract (El). Furthermore, it can be
    observed that the synergy between the optimized pressing processes in
    combination with the use of enzymes plus the use of microfiltration

                                                 19
   techniques was positive, since it allowed an increment of up to 75% in total
   carotenoid concentration.
   Table 3 - Physicochemical characteristics of the final extract obtained after
   diafiltration (E3).
     Physicochemical parameters                          Values
     Total soluble solids (g.100 mL-i)                   0.5 to 1.5
     Total dry extract (g.L-1)                           237.8 to 250.5
     Insoluble dry extract (g.L-1)                       223 a 260
     Total carotenoids (mg.L-1)                          0.053 to 0.53
     pH                                                  4.5 to 4.7
     Ascorbic acid (g.100 mL-i)                          Below detectable limit
     Sugars total (g.100 mL-1)                           0.2 to 1.3
     Titratable acidity in % of citric acid (g.100 mL-1) 1.26 to 1.78
     Total polyphenols in tannic acid (mg.100 mL-1)      250 to 500
 5 Example 3 - Application of purified extract as a coloring.
                  Concerning the application of the concentrated and purified
   extract obtained at the end of the process described in Example 1, it can be
   seen that an addition between 0.5 and 3.0% of concentrated extract to juices
   and beverages is enough to reach the typical yellow coloration.
10 Example 4 - Comparative studies on concentration step (C).
                  During     the final step of the filtration    process  (C)   using
   microporous membranes, permeate sampling was performed in the system
   without the substitution of the power source until the operational limit of the
   pilot equipment, with the least possible volume of about 1.5 liters. Starting
15 from this point, the diafiltration step began (C3), and thus volumes of water
   (diavolumes) were added, the soluble solids content (LBrix) being used as a
   control parameter every 10 minutes.
                  The conclusion of the process is indicated when the soluble
   solids control reaches a value ranging from 0 to 10.0 g.kg- 1, indicating that
20 water soluble materials (sugars, mineral salts and vitamins) were eliminated
   by the operation of diafiltration. The samples for the analysis were collected

                                             20
   in three steps: the feeding crude extract, the permeate and what was finally
   retained.
                 Figures 4 and 5 show the details of the operation of diafiltration
   step (C), in which the solvent is water. Diafiltration, as shown in Figure 2, was
 5 conducted in three phases:
                 e First step: pre-concentration at a constant volume of the tank of
   3.0 liters and crude extract feedback until depletion of total volume to be
   purified by diafiltration.
                 e Second step: the interruption of crude extract feedback occurs.
10 The tank volume drops until the maximum concentration point is reached.
                 e Third step: this is the diafiltration phase itself, when the volume
   of each filtrate (permeate) is collected, and afterwards the tank is replenished
   with the same volume of demineralized water to reach the least soluble solids
   content (close to zero) in what is finally retained.
15               Permeate sampling was performed only by measuring permeate
   flow density. From the beginning of the diafiltration phase, an ATAGO digital
   refractometer was used to measure total soluble solids content (2Brix),
   monitoring it to keep it at a value close to zero. All the soluble materials
   present in the permeate were eliminated andonly the insoluble portion of the
20 extract with water, enriched with carotenoids, was left inside the recirculation
   system.
                 The decision to perform diafiltration only in the final concentration
   phase was due to the fact that water consumption in these conditions may be
   important for the project of a factory at an industrial scale. It can be noted
25 that, in conditions of least retention volume of the feeding tank, diafiltration is
   processed more rapidly and a lot of care should be taken for aeration of the
   manipulated product in these conditions.
                 During this phase, permeate extraction was compensated by the
   addition of distilled water to the feeding tank every 10 minutes. The solids
30 content is the washing indicator which is measured in the permeate at each
   extraction. Diafiltration is interrupted when this parameter reaches values of 0
   and 10 g.kg 1 in the permeate. During diafiltration, the retained volume

                                          21
   remains constant and the VRF does not undergo alterations.
                The concentration step itself (prior diafiltration promotion) is
   divided into two phases: pre-concentration at constant volume of the tank,
   with feedback thereof with crude extract and a second step, with a
 5 continuous decrease of the extract volume to the lowest limit of the feeding
   tank of the pilot unit. The system normally operates diafiltration considering
   the intake of cashew fibers in the extract, obtaining a volume of about 1500
   mL at the end of the concentration step. A volume slightly higher than the
   lowest limit of 1000 mL was used in the pilot unit in order to avoid unwanted
10 contacts with air. For each one of the steps it is important to establish the
   volume reduction factor, as explained below.
                 Pre-concentration step: in order to calculate the corresponding
   volume reduction factor, the ratio between the volume of the extract supplied
   in the circuit and the retained volume was used. During this phase, the
15 supplied volume with crude extract (VA) equals the permeate volume (Vp) in
   all the process. The retained volume (VR) corresponds to the tank volume
   (VB).  Therefore, in this phase the VRF is calculated as follows:
                 VRF = 1 + VP / VB, wherein
                 Vp: permeate volume extracted at every sample collection (mL).
20               VB: feeding tank volume (mL).
                 In this case, the tank volume is fixed at 3000 ml during all the
   pre-concentration phase.
                 Concentration step: during this phase, the tank volume varies
   and the permeate volume is extracted continuously every 10 minutes,
25 although this extraction is not compensated by the addition of extract to the
   feeding tank. Thus, the volume of the circulating product decreases more
   rapidly and it concentrates in a non-linear fashion. At this point, the
   calculation of the changes in the VRF changes with respect to the pre
   concentration step and it is calculated by taking into account that the
30 circulating volume decreases of the same proportion collected in the
   permeate volume. This means that the circulating volume represents the
   initial volume minus the collected volume accumulated at each permeate

                                              22
   sampling during this phase. The calculation formula for each permeate
   sampling in this step is:
                  VRF = 1 + [ VPc / (VB - VP) ],wherein
                  Vpc: accumulated volume of permeate during the whole process
 5 (mL).
                  VB: feeding tank volume (mL).
                  Vp: accumulated volume of permeate during concentration phase
   (mL).
                  Purification step (diafiltration): during this phase there is no
10 concentration and the volume of the tank remains constant until the end of
   diafiltration, with a soluble solids content from 0 to 10.0 g.kg- 1, measured by
   refractometer in each of the sample of diavolumes during diafiltration. At the
   end of this step, manipulation should be completed and the samples of the
   final retained collected for the control analysis and modeling.
15                As a result of the different analyses conducted during the essays,
   the evolution of the permeate flow as a function of the volume reduction
   factor during the step of micro- and diafiltration is presented in the chart of
   Figure 6, under different transmembrane pressures.
                  Additionally, as indicated in the prior example and presented in
20 the chart of Figure 7, the sample submitted to enzyme pre-treatment had a
   130 L.h- .m- 2 average stabilization and without pre-treatment it indicates a
   value lower than 80 L.h- .m- 2 , thus suggesting a good industrial performance
   and applicability of the proposed process, even for pectinase-free samples.
                  Moreover, the analysis of the chart in Figure 7 indicates that
25 pectinase treatment has a higher concentration factor, reaching values
   around 19, whereas the pectinase-free sample has a slightly lower value,
   with a concentration factor of around 17.8. Even if we take into account that
   the values of the concentration factor are very close, it is important to
   observe that the time needed for reaching such concentration level was very
30 different for each case. The pectinase treatment showed a good performance
   of permeate flow that gets stabile in the pre-concentration phase (Cl),
   whereas the one without pectinase showed a stabilized flow only at the

                                              23
   beginning of the concentration phase (C2) with a reduction in circulating
   volume without feedback.
                 In order to better illustrate this fact, the charts of Figure 8 present
   the general behavior of extract concentration and diafiltration as a function of
 5 the duration of the process. In this way, Figure 8 shows four charts, wherein
   (8-1) is the evolution of the volume reduction factor, (8-Il) is the reduced
   diavolume, (8-111) is the density of the permeate flow and (8-IV) is the soluble
   solids content, respectively, as a function of time, in the concentration
   process of extract E2An analysis of the behavior of the concentration factor
10 as a function of time (Figure 8-1) shows that the curve referring to the enzyme
   pre-treatment process presents a growing concentration rate owing to the
   higher permeate flow during all the phases of the process, when compared
   with the essays without enzymatic pre-treatment. This fact can be attributed
   to pectinase action as a factor for reducing the viscosity and decreasing the
15 average particle size in the product.
                The behavior of total soluble solids content (Figura 8-IV) shows a
   small increment at the beginning of the process for both cases. It is observed
   that soluble solids content in both initial samples was approximately 5.2 2Brix.
   The reading of 5,1 a 5,2 2Brix in both cases may be attributed to the
20 presence of water inside the microfiltration pilot unit, which is stabilized after
   the first crude extract feedback. The decrease in the total content of soluble
   solids content showed a typical behavior of diafiltration processes, wherein
   the final point of the adopted process corresponds to content values close to
   zero. In both cases, the end of the process took place when this parameter
25 was enough low to avoid subsequent fermentations and not to cause any
   detriment to total carotenoid content.
                The reduced diavolume (RD) is a value corresponding to a ratio
   between the added volume of water and the recirculation volume in the
   system. This value is normally used for system resizing, for scheduling of
30 industrial units. Therefore, it shall be noted in Figure 8-11 that this parameter
   grows linearly along time, indicating good diafiltration performance.
                As the diafiltration phase was carried out after the maximum

                                          24
   concentration of the crude extract, it is observed that the volume of water
   needed for reducing soluble solids content is very low if compared with the
   initial volume of 20 liters of crude extract. Diafiltration in this example was
   conducted with a circulating volume of 1.45 L (calculated by the sum of
 5 extracted permeates) and with the addition of 5.9 L of distilled water for
   pectinase treatment. The circulating volume calculated for diafiltration when
   there was no addition of pectinase in the previous pressing step was 1.2 L
   and 5.6 L of distilled water added to reach a soluble solids content close to
   zer.
10              The obtained results prove that the proposed technology allows
   the production of volume concentration factors close to 20 and that the
   synergic use of pectinolytic enzymes as pre-treatment during pressing phase
   has a positive effect on the global performances of the process.

                                          25
          THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
              1. Process for the concentration and purification of the extract
obtained from cashew pseudofruit waste and product with a high carotenoid
content comprising the steps of washing cashew processing waste; successive
pressing of the materials comprised of cashew waste fibers; and filtration of the
total liquid phase; comprising the steps of:
              A) pressing a crude aqueous extract (A);
              B) sieving of the crude aqueous extract (B); and
              C) concentration and purification of the aqueous extract on
microfiltration microporous membranes (C).
              2. Process according to claim 1, wherein the crude aqueous extract
during pressing (A) is subjected to enzymatic treatment.
              3. Process according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the pressing step (A)
takes place with 5 to 10 pressing cycles.
              4. Process according to claim 3, wherein the pressing step (A)
takes place with 6 pressing cycles.
              5. Process according to any one of claims 1-4 wherein it has the
addition of commercial enzymes with pectinolytic, amylolytic, cellulolytic and
hemicellulolytic activities in the pressing step (A).
              6. Process according to claim 4, wherein the addition of enzymes
comprises values between 0.01 and 0.5% out of the fiber mass (EO).
              7. Process according to claim 6 wherein the addition of enzymes
comprises values of 0.2% out of the fiber mass (EO).
              8. Process according to any one of claims 1-7 wherein sieving (B)
takes place in sieves having mesh between 0.1 and 1.0 mm.

                                          26
              9.  Process     according  to  any    one   of  claims     1-8  wherein
concentration (C)      takes place by means          of microfiltration   microporous
membranes, comprising steps of:
              C1) addition of the extract (E2) to the feeding tank (4A) at constant
volume conditions;
              C2) concentration with maximum reduction of the volume of
concentrated extract within the recirculation system until the recirculation limit of
the set of membranes; and
              C3) diafiltration on membranes with solvent addition until attaining
soluble solids content from 0 to 10.0 g.kg-1 .
              10. Process according to claim 9 wherein the feeding tank is
maintained at constant volume in (C1) until the crude extract concentration
attains values of volume concentration factor between 2 and 30 and/or until
depletion of the volume of the added crude extract.
              11. Process according to claim 9 or 10 wherein the employed
membranes have a porous diameter from 0.01 pm to 0,5 pm.
              12.  Process     according to    claim   11  wherein     the   employed
membranes have a porous diameter from 0,2 pm.
              13. Process according to any one of claims 9-12 wherein the
pressures of the microfiltration sections varies from 0.5 to 10.0 bar.
              14. Process according to claim 13 wherein the pressures of the
microfiltration sections varies from 1.75 to 2.75 bar.
              15. Process according to any one of claims 9-14 wherein tangential
speed is fixed in 1 to 10 m.s- 1.

                                       27
            16. Process according to claim 15 wherein tangential speed is fixed in
6.0 m.s-1
            17. Process according to claims 1 or 15 wherein the steps of
concentration and purification of the extract take place at temperature between
10 C and 85*C.
            18.    Process   according  to claim     17  wherein  the  steps    of
concentration and purification of the extract take place at temperature between
38"C to 421C.
            19. Product of cashew fibers obtained from the process of
concentration and purification of cashew pseudofruit waste extract as defined in
any one of claims 1 to 18 and comprising the components auroxanthin;
mutatoxanthin; lutein; zeaxanthin; antheraxanthin; p-Cryptoxanthin; 13-cis-p
carotene; a-Carotene and P-carotene.
            20. Product according to claim 19 wherein the product is associated
with other additives and/or carotenoids of interest.
            21. Product according to claim 19 or 20 being used as a coloring
and/or industrial additive.

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             <U+2736> <U+2701>
<U+274B><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+274B><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                       <U+2737>
                           <U+2701>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2738>
<U+274B><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                       <U+2701>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2739>
<U+274B><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                       <U+2701>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+273A>
<U+274B><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                       <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                                                            <U+273B>   <U+2701>
               <U+261B><U+2732> <U+272E><U+2733>
<removed-apn>
               <U+2721><U+2732> <U+271F><U+271F><U+2720>
                         <U+2706><U+272D>
                         <U+271E><U+271D>
                         <U+2706><U+274B>
                         <U+2701><U+275A>
                         <U+260E><U+2701>
                         <U+2704><U+2702>
                         <U+2701>P                                                                         <U+2713><U+2717><U+2718>
                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2717><U+2718>
                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2717><U+2718>
                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2717><U+2718>
                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2717><U+2718>
                                              <U+2771><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> |<U+270F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2746><U+2712><U+2713><U+261E>|
                                                          <U+274B><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                                                <U+2741><U+2738><U+2740> <U+2741><U+2740><U+2738>
                                                                                   <U+273E><U+2739> <U+273E><U+2739>
                              <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2722><U+271B><U+2724><U+2725><U+271A><U+2726><U+2725><U+2727><U+2723><U+2724>                                      <U+273F><U+273E><U+273D> <U+273F><U+273E><U+273D>
                              <U+2719><U+2605><U+2726><U+2729><U+271B>                      <U+2748><U+272A><U+272B><U+2748><U+272C><U+272B><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+272F><U+2734><U+272A><U+272B> <U+2735><U+2736><U+2731><U+2737><U+272C>            <U+2738><U+273A> <U+2738><U+273A>
                                                                                          <U+2739><U+2738><U+2749> <U+2739><U+2738><U+2749>
              <U+261B><U+2732> <U+272E><U+2733>
              <U+2721><U+2732> <U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
                    <U+2706><U+272D>
                    <U+271E><U+271D>
                    <U+2706><U+274B>
                    <U+2701><U+275A>
                    <U+260E><U+2701>
                    <U+2704><U+2702>
                    <U+2701>P
                                                  <U+2771><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> |<U+270F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2746><U+2712><U+2713><U+261E>|      <U+2772><U+2710><U+2742><U+2743> <U+2744><U+2745><U+2747> <U+2763><U+2745><U+274A><U+2763> <U+25CF><U+274D> <U+2666>¦ <U+2663><U+274F><U+2751><U+2742><U+2710><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+274F>
                                                                               <U+2756><U+25D7><U+2759><U+276F><U+2773><U+2768><U+2759> <U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+2759><U+25D7><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+276C>
                                                          <U+274B><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>      <U+273C>

<removed-date>
                                   <U+2701> <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+274B>
                      <U+2702>
                          <U+2771>
                                                                       <U+2713><U+2710><U+2717><U+2701>
                  |
              <U+2702>
                                                                       <U+2713><U+2710><U+2717><U+2701>
                          <U+274B>
                          P                                            <U+2713><U+2710><U+2717><U+2701>
                              <U+2759>                                        <U+2713><U+2710><U+2717><U+2701>
                              <U+2759>
                                             <U+2772><U+2710><U+2742><U+2743> <U+2744><U+2745><U+2747> <U+2763><U+2745><U+274A><U+2763> <U+25CF><U+274D> <U+2666>¦ <U+2663><U+274F><U+2751><U+2742><U+2710><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+274F>
                                             <U+2756><U+25D7><U+2759><U+276F><U+2773><U+2768><U+2759> <U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+2759><U+25D7><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+276C>
                                  <U+274B><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>   <U+273D>

