                                               Abstract:
 Disclosed are compositions and methods related to rendering ineffective Th1 T cells resistant to the
inhibitory cytokine milieu present in a cancer microenvironment. Tumor-specific T cells are modified
to employ a chimeric receptor that binds inhibitory/suppressive cytokines and converts their
intracellular consequences to a Th1 immunostimulatory/activating signal. The T cells employ a
chimeric antigen receptor having exodomains for IL10, IL13 and/or IL4 fused with the signal
transducing endodomains for IL2 and/or IL7.

       REVERSING THE EFFECTS OF THE TUMOR MICROENVIRONMENT USING
                              CHIMERIC CYTOKINE RECEPTORS
             This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
61/473,457, filed April 8, 2011, and is a divisional of AU <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of
AU 2012240135, which is a national phase of PCT/US2012/032322 (WO 2012/138858), each of
which is incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
             [0001]       The field of the invention at least generally includes the fields of
immunology, cell biology, molecular biology, and medicine.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             [0002]     The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that such art forms part of the common
general knowledge at it relates to the claims defining the invention. Conventional chemo and
radiotherapy often produce insufficient benefit, underscoring the need for novel therapeutics.
The adoptive transfer of in vitro expanded tumor-associated antigen (TAA)-specific cytotoxic T
lymphocytes      (CTL)    can   effectively  treat   tumors     including    Hodgkin's    Lymphoma,
nasopharyngeal carcinoma, neuroblastoma and melanoma, for example. While the infusion of
CTLs targeting cancer-expressed TAA is useful therapeutically, at least some tumors use
multiple mechanisms of immune evasion, including downregulation of antigen expression, and
the release of soluble immunomodulatory cytokines, such as IL13 and IL4, that favor
development of a Th2 rather than a cytotoxic Th1 type immune response. The present invention
provides a solution to a need in the art to facilitate overcoming such evasive measures by the
tumor.
                           BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             [0006]      Progressive tumor growth may be associated with suppression of the
immune response. Many different mechanisms may contribute to immune evasion, however
many types of cancers have taken advantage of the regulatory role of cytokines to downregulate
appropriate immune responses targeted at destroying cancer cells. They do this by secreting
immunosuppressive cytokines that serve to recruit regulatory immune cells to the tumor and
directly inhibit and/or re-polarize cytotoxic Th1 T cells to an ineffective Th2 phenotype.
Immunosuppressive cytokines secreted by cancer cells or the surrounding tumor stroma include
at least interleukin (IL) 13, IL4, (transforming growth factor-beta) TGF-beta, IL6, IL8, and IL
10.

    WO 2012/138858                                                           PCT/US2012/032322
             Embodiments of the invention provide a novel approach to render tumor-reactive T
cells   resistant   to  the  immunosuppressive/inhibitory       cytokines  present   in  the   tumor
microenvironment. Certain embodiments of the invention concern improved expansion and anti
tumor activity of tumor-specific CTLs using a transgenic chimeric cytokine receptor.
             Embodiments of the invention provide a novel approach to render effector Th1 T
cells resistant to the inhibitory cytokine milieu present in the tumor microenvironment.        Such
embodiments encompass native or genetically modified tumor-specific T cells with a chimeric
receptor that binds inhibitory/suppressive cytokines and converts their intracellular consequences
to a Thi immunostimulatory/activating signal, thus improving the efficacy of tumor-specific T
cells.
             By example, the invention encompasses vectors, such as exemplary bicistronic
retroviral vectors, that encode the exodomains for IL4 and/or IL13 cytokine receptors fused with
the signal transducing endodomains for 1L2 and/or IL7 cytokine receptors. Similarly, the
invention encompasses a vector, such as a retroviral vector, that encodes the exodomains of the
IL10 cytokine receptor fused with the signal transducing endodomains for IL2 and/or ILl
cytokine receptors.
             In specific embodiments, cancers wherein one or more of IL13, IL4 and/or IL1O (or
others) are present in the microenvironment include essentially all solid tumors.          Particular
exemplary cancers include at least: pancreatic cancer, Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma,
melanoma, breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, glioblastoma, hepatocellular carcinoma,
ovarian cancer, and so forth.
             Embodiments of the invention are useful to modify primary T cells, naturally
occurring tumor antigen-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes, and NK cells, for example. T/NK
cells modified using this invention can be used in an autologous or allogeneic setting.
             In some embodiments of the invention, there are chimeric molecules that can convert
negative immunoregulatory signals to positive signals. This approach involves, by way of
example only, fusing the exodomains of IL-4 and/or IL- 13 with the signal transducing
endodomains of the IL-2 and/or IL-7 receptors. This approach can be used to render effector ThI
cells resistant to negative cytokine signals that often present in the tumor microenvironment.
                                                   2

    WO 2012/138858                                                         PCT/US2012/032322
             In some embodiments, the present invention provides reversing the effects of the
tumor microenvironment using chimeric cytokine receptors: exodomains of IL-4 and/or IL-13
fused with the endodomains of IL-2 and/or IL-7 receptors.
             In specific embodiments, the present invention allows reversing the effects of the
tumor microenvironment using chimeric cytokine receptors: exodomains of IL-4 and IL- 13 fused
with the endodomains of IL-2 and IL-7 receptors, for example.
             In some embodiments of the invention, there is a method of preventing inhibition or
re-polarization of cytotoxic Thl T cells to cells having a Th2 phenotype, comprising the step of
modifying tumor-specific T cells to comprise a chimeric receptor that binds inhibitory or
suppressive cytokines, wherein upon binding to the chimeric receptor by the inhibitory or
suppressive cytokines the inhibition or re-polarization of cytotoxic Thl T cells is thereby
prevented. In specific embodiments, the chimeric receptor comprises the exodomain of the IL10,
IL4, and/or IL13 cytokine receptor(s) and comprises the signal transducing endodomain of the
IL2 and/or IL7 cytokine receptor(s).    In certain embodiments, the chimeric receptor comprises
the exodomain of an immunosuppressive cytokine and the endodomain of cytokines that transmit
Thl signals.
             In some embodiments, there is a vector, comprising a chimeric receptor that
comprises the exodomain of an immunosuppressive cytokine receptor and the endodomain of a
cytokine receptor that transmits Thl signals.       In some embodiments, the exodomain of an
immunosuppressive cytokine is an exodomain of IL1O, IL4, and/or IL13 cytokine receptor. In
certain embodiments, the endodomain of a cytokine receptor that transmits Thl signals is an
endodomain of a cytokine receptor for the IL2 and/or IL7 cytokine receptors. The vector may be
of any kind, including a retroviral vector, an adenoviral vector, a plasmid, or an adeno-associated
viral vector. In specific embodiments, the chimeric receptor comprises the exodomain of IL4
and the endodomain of IL7.
             [0030]      The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical
advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that
follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be
described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention.          It should be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed
may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the
                                                  3

    WO 2012/138858                                                         PCT/US2012/032322
same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that
such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth
in the appended claims.       The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the
invention, both as to its organization and method of operation, together with further objects and
advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in
connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood, however, that each
of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended
as a definition of the limits of the present invention.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             [0031]      For a more complete understanding of the present invention, reference is
now made to the following descriptions taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing, in
which:
             FIG. 1. Schematic of IL4 and IL13 signaling.
             FIG. 2. A) Vector map of exemplary constructs #1 and #2. B) evaluating transduction
efficiency by GFP (#1) and mOrange (#2) expression; C) Phospho Stat5 after 10 min cytokine
exposure; D) transduced and control CTLs cultured in IL2, 4, or 13.
             FIG. 3A Exemplary Construct #3.          3B. Schematic of IL4 and IL13 signaling in
transgenic cells.
             FIG. 4 Exemplary fusion of IL4RJIL7Ra ("4/7R") and a reporter gene
              FIG. 5 shows stable expression of IL4R and mOrange on transduced cells.
             FIG. 6 shows pSTAT5 on transgenic cells after IL-4 administration.
             FIG. 7 demonstrates that 4/7R expression does not adversely affect CTL function.
             FIG. 8 shows that transgenic T cells expressing 4/7R proliferate in vitro in the
presence of IL-4.
             FIG. 9 shows that 4/7R-expressing CTL can deplete IL4 from supernatant.
                                                    4

              FIG.   10   demonstrates    that   4/7R-expressing    CTL    are   resistant to  other
immunosuppressive cytokines.
              FIG. 11 illustrates changing the signaling of an immunosuppressive cytokine into a T
cell growth factor .
              FIGS. 12-14 demonstrate that 4/7R CTLs control tumor growth.
              FIG. 15 addresses that in certain embodiments one can modify patient-derived CAR
PSCA modified T cells to co-express 4/7R, for example.
              FIG. 16 shows that CAR-PSCA T cells modified to co-express 4/7R retain their
ability to kill tumor targets.
          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
   I.    Definitions
              [0055]    As used herein in the specification, "a" or "an" may mean one or more. As
used herein in the claim(s), in conjunction with the word "comprising," the words "a" or "an"
may mean one or more than one. As used herein "another" may mean at least a second or more
of an item. Throughout this specification and the claims, unless the context requires otherwise,
the use of the term "comprising" indicates that the listed features are required or mandatory, but
that other elements are optional and may or may not be present.
              The term "chimeric cytokine receptor" as used herein refers to an engineered
receptor comprising cytokine binding portion from one receptor linked to intracellular signalling
portion from a different receptor. The term "cytokine-binding exodomain" as used herein refers
to the portion of a cytokine receptor on the cell surface that binds to a cytokine. The term "signal
transducing endodomain" as used herein refers to the portion of a cytokine receptor within the
cells that is responsible for transmitting a signal upon cytokine binding.
  II.    General Embodiments of the Invention
               To overcome barriers in the art and develop an effective immunotherapeutic strategy
against cancer, embodiments of the invention encompass CTL lines (T cell lines with native
tumor specificity) or chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified T cells that target antigens
                                                    C

    WO 2012/138858                                                      PCT/US2012/032322
expressed on malignant cells, and engineering of these cells to express chimeric receptors
containing the cytokine-binding exodomains of the IL13 receptor a (IL13Ra1) and the IL4Ra
linked to the endodomains of the IL2Ry and IL7Ra, which transmit Th1 signals. In specific
embodiments,     these   manipulations   render CTL resistant to the      Th2-polarizing   tumor
microenvironment and instead sustain Th1 signaling to the CTLs targeted to TAA.          One can
examine cancer patient samples and document the pattern of TAA expression and the levels and
pattern of Th2 cytokines produced. One can then determine whether CTLs can be expanded that
are directed against the expressed antigens from patient PBMC and characterize the effects of
modifying them so that they remain polarized to Thi activity even in the Th2inducing tumor
microenvironment.       In specific embodiments, T cells reactive against pancreatic cancer
associated antigens (by example only) can be generated from patient PBMC and modified to
retain Th1 function even in the Th2 cytokine milieu of the tumor. Such embodiments can be
examined as follows: 1) document the pattern of TAA expression and assess the cytokine profile
of primary biopsy samples; 2) generate tumor-reactive CTL specific for multiple pancreatic
cancer-associated target antigens and evaluate their specificity and function in vitro; and 3)
protect CTLs from the inhibitory effects of signaling with Th2 cytokines by forced expression of
chimeric cytokine receptors. Following this, one can evaluate the safety and anti-tumor efficacy
of TAA-CTL in individuals with cancer, including pancreatic cancer.
             Survival and expansion of tumor-specific CTLs is important for optimal in vivo
efficacy of T cell therapies. Although IL2 administration may produce these effects, it is
associated with toxicity and expansion of inhibitory T cell populations that limit benefit.
Transgenic expression of the IL7 receptor can improve CTL survival and expansion, but is of
benefit only with repeated exogenous administration of IL7 cytokine, which is expensive, relies
on the availablility of clinical grade product, and which may be at inadequate concentrations at
the tumor site. Embodiments of the present invention provide manipulated T cell responses to
IL4, a cytokine that is endogenously present in abundance in the microenvironment of several
tumors and is otherwise associated with pro-tumorigenic actions including cancer cell
proliferation, protection of tumor cells from apoptosis and repolarization of cytotoxic tumor
specific T cells to a suppressive Th2 phenotype. To reverse the inhibitory effects of IL4 on
tumor-specific CTLs and instead enable them to utilize IL4 as a growth factor, the inventors
engineered a retroviral vector encoding the IL4Ra exodomain (cytokine-binding portion) fused
with the endodomain (signaling domain) of the IL7R and linked with mOrange to allow
                                                  6

    WO 2012/138858                                                         PCT/US2012/032322
transgene detection. To determine whether transgenic expression of chimeric IL4/7R improves
CTL survival and expansion the inventors used killing of Epstein Barr virus+ (EBV+) tumor by
EBV-specific CTLs. After transduction, IL4/7R CTLs were detectable by flow cytometry
(double positive mOrange, IL4R) in 13-76% of EBV-CTLs. The transgenic molecule was
functional since addition of IL4 phosphorylated STAT5 only in EBV-CTLs/ IL4/7R+ at levels
similar to that achieved after IL2 administration. Both transgenic and control CTLs expanded in
response to IL2 (increase from 1 x106 to 3.5x107 and 5.3x107 cells, respectively), but only EBV
                                                                                                  6
CTL/IL4/7R+ expanded in the presence of IL4 (100OUlml) (from 1 x106 to 2.9 x107 vs. 3.2x10
CTLs, respectively) over 1 week. As anticipated, the transgenic subpopulation of EBV-CTL
were positively selected in the presence of IL4 (increase from 13% to 80% in 1 week) compared
to CTL cultured in IL2. Following expansion with IL4, transgenic CTL remained polyclonal,
with an effector-memory profile, and retained antigen specificity measured by IFNy release,
EBV-pentamer binding, and MHC-restricted killing of autologous EBV-LCLs. Importantly, CTL
expansion remained strictly antigen and cytokine dependent, as withdrawal of either stimulus
terminated expansion. These in vitro characteristics were replicated in vivo in a xenograft mouse
model in which EBV-CTLs/IL4/7R expanded in response to IL2 or IL4 and maintained their
anti-EBV-tumor activity. Finally, CTLs were cultured in the presence of supernatant harvested
from IL-4-producing tumors. Only the transgenic CTL depleted the cytokine from the media.
Hence, in embodiments of the invention IL4/7R CTL are able to utilize tumor-derived IL4 as a
growth factor and serve as a sink that depletes the cytokine from the tumor microenvironment,
thus starving the malignancy of a protein that would otherwise benefit tumor growth and
survival.
III.    Tumor Associated Antigens
             In embodiments wherein multiTAA-specific CTL are employed for the treatment
and/or prevention of cancer, a variety of TAA may be targeted. Tumor antigens are substances
produced in tumor cells that trigger an immune response in a host.
             [0048]   Exemplary tumor antigens include at least the following: carcinoembryonic
antigen (CEA) for bowel cancers; CA-125 for ovarian cancer; MUC-1 or epithelial tumor
antigen (ETA) or CA15-3 for breast cancer; tyrosinase or melanoma-associated antigen (MAGE)
for malignant melanoma; and abnormal products of ras, p53 for a variety of types of tumors;
alphafetoprotein for hepatoma, ovarian, or testicular cancer; beta subunit of hCG for men with
testicular cancer; prostate specific antigen for prostate cancer; beta 2 microglobulin for multiple
                                                  7

     WO 2012/138858                                                        PCT/US2012/032322
myelom and in some lymphomas; CA19-9 for colorectal, bile duct, and pancreatic cancer;
chromogranin A for lung and prostate cancer; TA90, GP100, and MelanA/MARTi                    for
melanoma, soft tissue sarcomas, and breast, colon, and lung cancer. Examples of tumor antigens
are known in the art, for example in Cheever et al., 2009, which is incorporated by reference
herein in its entirety.
               [0049]   Specific examples of tumor antigens include at least CEA, MHC, CTLA-4,
gp100, mesothelin, PD-Li, TRP1, CD40, EGFP, Her2, TCR alpha, trp2, TCR, MUC1, cdr2, ras,
4-IBB, CT26, GITR, OX40, TGF-a. WTI, MUC1, LMP2, HPV E6 E7, EGFRvIII, HER-2/neu,
MAGE A3, p53 nonmutant, NY-ESO-i, PSMA, GD2, Melan A/MARTi, Ras mutant, gp 100,
p53 mutant, Proteinase3 (PRi), bcr-abl, Tyrosinase, Survivin, PSA, hTERT, EphA2, PAP, ML
IAP, AFP, EpCAM, ERG (TMPRSS2 ETS fusion gene), NA17, PAX3, ALK, Androgen
receptor, Cyclin Bi, Polysialic acid, MYCN, RhoC, TRP-2, GD3, Fucosyl GMi, Mesothelin,
PSCA, MAGE Al, sLe(a), CYPiBi, PLACi, GM3, BORIS, Tn, GloboH, ETV6-AML, NY-BR
1, RGS5, SART3, STn, Carbonic anhydrase IX, PAX5, OY-TESi, Sperm protein 17, LCK,
HMWMAA, AKAP-4, SSX2, XAGE 1, B7H3, Legumain, Tie 2, Page4, VEGFR2, MAD-CT-i,
FAP, PDGFR-0, MAD-CT-2, and Fos-related antigen 1, for example.
IV.      Nucleic Acids
[0110]       Nucleic acids according to the present invention may encode a chimeric cytokine
receptor. The nucleic acid may be derived from genomic DNA, complementary DNA (cDNA)
or synthetic DNA.
[0111]          A "nucleic acid" as used herein includes single-stranded and double-stranded
molecules, as well as DNA, RNA, chemically modified nucleic acids and nucleic acid analogs.
It is contemplated that a nucleic acid within the scope of the present invention may be of almost
any size, determined in part by the length of the encoded protein or peptide.
[0112]     It is contemplated that chimeric cytokine receptors may be encoded by any nucleic acid
sequence that encodes the appropriate amino acid sequence.         The design and production of
nucleic acids encoding a desired amino acid sequence is well known to those of skill in the art,
using standardized codon tables. In preferred embodiments, the codons selected for encoding
each amino acid may be modified to optimize expression of the nucleic acid in the host cell of
interest.
                                                  8

    WO 2012/138858                                                          PCT/US2012/032322
  V.    Targeted Delivery of Gene Therapy Vectors
In particular embodiments of the invention, vectors are employed that allow integration rather
than transient expression, such as retrovirus, lentivirus, and transposons.
[0114]     There are a number of ways in which gene therapy vectors may introduced into cells.
In certain embodiments of the invention, the gene therapy vector comprises a virus. The ability
of certain viruses to enter cells via receptor-mediated endocytosis, to integrate into host cell
genome or be maintained episomally, and express viral genes stably and efficiently have made
them attractive candidates for the transfer of foreign genes into mammalian cells (Ridgeway,
1988; Nicolas and Rubinstein, 1988.; Baichwal and Sugden, 1986; Temin, 1986). Preferred gene
therapy vectors are generally viral vectors. DNA viruses used as gene therapy vectors include
the papovaviruses (e.g., simian virus 40, bovine papilloma virus, and polyoma) (Ridgeway,
1988; Baichwal and Sugden, 1986) and adenoviruses (Ridgeway, 1988; Baichwal and Sugden,
1986).
[0121]     Other gene transfer vectors may be constructed from retroviruses. (Coffin, 1990.) In
order to construct a retroviral vector, a nucleic acid encoding protein of interest is inserted into
the viral genome in the place of certain viral sequences to produce a virus that is replication
defective. In order to produce virions, a packaging cell line containing the gag, pol, and env
genes, but without the LTR and packaging components, is constructed (Mann et al., 1983).
When a recombinant plasmid containing a cDNA, together with the retroviral LTR and
packaging sequences is introduced into this cell line (by calcium phosphate precipitation for
example), the packaging sequence allows the RNA transcript of the recombinant plasmid to be
packaged into viral particles, which are then secreted into the culture media (Nicolas and
Rubenstein, 1988; Temin, 1986; Mann et al., 1983).          The media containing the recombinant
retroviruses is then collected, optionally concentrated, and used for gene transfer. Retroviral
vectors are capable of infecting a broad variety of cell types. However, integration and stable
expression require the division of host cells (Paskind et al., 1975).
[0122]    Other viral vectors may be employed as targeted gene therapy vectors. Vectors derived
from viruses such as vaccinia virus (Ridgeway, 1988; Baichwal and Sugden, 1986; Coupar et al.,
1988), adeno-associated virus (AAV) (Ridgeway, 1988; Baichwal and Sugden, 1986; Hermonat
and Muzycska, 1984), and herpes viruses may be employed.
                                                  9

    WO 2012/138858                                                       PCT/US2012/032322
[0123]    In a further embodiment of the invention, gene therapy construct may be entrapped in a
liposome. Liposome-mediated nucleic acid delivery and expression of foreign DNA in vitro has
been very successful. Wong et al., (1980) demonstrated the feasibility of liposome-mediated
delivery and expression of foreign DNA in cultured chick embryo, HeLa, and hepatoma cells.
Nicolau et al., (1987.) accomplished successful liposome-mediated gene transfer in rats after
intravenous injection.
[0124]      Gene therapy vectors of the invention may comprise various transgenes, which are
typically encoded DNA or RNA of an expression vector. Gene therapy may be used for the
expression of a therapeutic gene, expression of APA to enhance neo-vascularization or for the
inhibition of APA expression for the treatment of disease states associated with neo
vascularization. DNA may be in form of cDNA, in vitro polymerized DNA, plasmid DNA, parts
of a plasmid DNA, genetic material derived from a virus, linear DNA, vectors (P1, PAC, BAC,
YAC, artificial chromosomes), expression cassettes, chimeric sequences, recombinant DNA,
chromosomal DNA, an oligonucleotide, anti-sense DNA, or derivatives of these groups. RNA
may be in the form of oligonucleotide RNA, tRNA (transfer RNA), snRNA (small nuclear
RNA), rRNA (ribosomal RNA), mRNA (messenger RNA), in vitro polymerized RNA,
recombinant RNA, chimeric sequences, anti-sense RNA, siRNA (small interfering RNA),
ribozymes, or derivatives of these groups. An anti-sense polynucleotide is a polynucleotide that
interferes with the function of DNA and/or RNA. Antisense polynucleotides include, but are not
limited to: morpholinos, 2'-O-methyl polynucleotides, DNA, RNA and the like.              SiRNA
comprises a double stranded structure typically containing 15-50 base pairs and preferably 21-25
base pairs and having a nucleotide sequence identical or nearly identical to an expressed target
gene or RNA within the cell.        Interference may result in suppression of expression.    The
polynucleotide can also be a sequence whose presence or expression in a cell alters the
expression or function of cellular genes or RNA, e.g., APA. In addition, DNA and RNA may be
single, double, triple, or quadruple stranded.
VI.     Pharmaceutical Compositions
[0125]     Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise an effective amount of
one or more compositions including a vector or a cell harboring a vector wherein the vector
encodes a chimeric cytokine receptor of the invention, as described herein, dissolved or
dispersed   in a pharmaceutically       acceptable   carrier. The phrases    "pharmaceutical or
pharmacologically acceptable" refers to molecular entities and compositions that do not produce
                                                  10

    WO 2012/138858                                                           PCT/US2012/032322
an adverse, allergic or other untoward reaction when administered to an animal, such as, for
example, a human, as appropriate.         The preparation of a pharmaceutical composition that
contains at least one composition of the present invention or an additional active ingredient will
be known to those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure, as exemplified by
Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th Ed. Mack Printing Company, 1990, incorporated
herein by reference.    Moreover, for animal (e.g., human) administration, it will be understood
that preparations should meet sterility, pyrogenicity, general safety and purity standards as
required by FDA Office of Biological Standards.
[0126]      As used herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" includes any and all solvents,
dispersion media, coatings, surfactants, antioxidants, preservatives (e.g., antibacterial agents,
antifungal agents), isotonic agents, absorption delaying agents, salts, preservatives, drugs, drug
stabilizers, gels, binders, excipients, disintegration agents, lubricants, sweetening agents,
flavoring agents, dyes, such like materials and combinations thereof, as would be known to one
of ordinary skill in the art (see, for example, Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th Ed.
Mack Printing Company, 1990, pp. 1289-1329, incorporated herein by reference).                Except
insofar as any conventional carrier is incompatible with the active ingredient, its use in the
therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions is contemplated.
[0127]      The therapeutic and diagnostic compositions of the present invention may comprise
different types of carriers depending on whether it is to be administered in solid, liquid or aerosol
form, and whether it need to be sterile for such routes of administration. The present invention
can     be   administered     intravenously,    intradermally,   intraarterially,  intraperitoneally,
intralesionally, intracranially, intraarticularly, intrapleurally, intratracheally, intratumorally,
intramuscularly, intraperitoneally, subcutaneously, intravesicularlly, sublingually, by inhalation
(e.g.. aerosol inhalation), injection, infusion, continuous infusion, localized perfusion bathing
target cells directly, via a catheter, via a lavage, in lipid compositions (e.g., liposomes), or by
other method or any combination of the forgoing as would be known to one of ordinary skill in
the art (see, for example, Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th Ed. Mack Printing
Company, 1990, incorporated herein by reference).
[0128]     The actual dosage amount of a composition of the present invention administered to a
subject can be determined by physical and physiological factors such as body weight, severity of
condition, the type of disease being treated, previous or concurrent therapeutic interventions,
                                                  11

     WO 2012/138858                                                           PCT/US2012/032322
idiopathy of the patient and on the route of administration.         The practitioner responsible for
administration will, in any event, determine the concentration of active ingredient(s) in a
composition and appropriate dose(s) for the individual subject.
[0129]      In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions may comprise, for example, at
least about 0.1% of an active compound. In other embodiments, the an active compound may
comprise between about 2% to about 75% of the weight of the unit, or between about 25% to
about 60%, for example, and any range derivable therein. In other non-limiting examples, a dose
may also comprise from about 1 tg/kg/body weight, about 5               tg/kg/body weight, about 10
  tg/kg/body weight, about 50       tg/kg/body weight, about 100      tg/kg/body weight, about 200
  tg/kg/body weight, about 350        tg/kg/body weight, about 500       tg/kg/body weight, about 1
mg/kg/body weight, about 5 mg/kg/body weight, about 10 mg/kg/body weight, about 50
mg/kg/body weight, about 100 mg/kg/body weight, about 200 mg/kg/body weight, about 350
mg/kg/body weight, about 500 mg/kg/body weight, to about 1000 mg/kg/body weight or more
per administration, and any range derivable therein. In non-limiting examples of a derivable
range from the numbers listed herein, a range of about 5 mg/kg/body weight to about 100
mg/kg/body weight, about 5 microgram/kg/body weight to about 500 milligram/kg/body weight,
can be administered, based on the numbers described above.
[0130]     In any case, the composition may comprise various antioxidants to retard oxidation of
one or more component. Additionally, the prevention of the action of microorganisms can be
brought about by preservatives such as various antibacterial and antifungal agents, including but
not limited to parabens (e.g., methylparabens, propylparabens), chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic
acid, thimerosal or combinations thereof.
[0131]    In embodiments where the composition is in a liquid form, a carrier can be a solvent or
dispersion medium comprising but not limited to, water, ethanol, polyol (e.g., glycerol,
propylene glycol, liquid polyethylene         glycol), lipids (e.g.,   triglycerides, vegetable oils,
liposomes) and combinations thereof. In many cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic
agents, such as, for example, sugars, sodium chloride or combinations thereof.
[0132]     Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the APA targeting moiety or
conjugate thereof in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other
ingredients enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization.             Generally,
                                                   12

    WO 2012/138858                                                           PCT/US2012/032322
dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a sterile
vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and/or the other ingredients. In the case of
sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, suspensions or emulsion, the
preferred methods of preparation are vacuum-drying or freeze-drying techniques which yield a
powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile
filtered liquid medium thereof. The liquid medium should be suitably buffered if necessary and
the liquid diluent first rendered isotonic prior to injection with sufficient saline or glucose. The
preparation of compositions for direct injection is also contemplated, where the use of DMSO as
solvent is envisioned to result in extremely rapid penetration, delivering high concentrations of
the active agents to a small area.
[0133]     The composition must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage, and
preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms, such as bacteria and fungi. It will
be appreciated that endotoxin contamination should be kept minimally at a safe level, for
example, less that 0.5 ng/mg protein.
VII.     Combination Therapy
             [0051]     In certain embodiments of the invention, methods of the present invention
for clinical    aspects   are   combined with     other   agents  effective   in   the  treatment of
hyperproliferative disease, such as anti-cancer agents.       An "anti-cancer" agent is capable of
negatively affecting cancer in a subject, for example, by killing cancer cells, inducing apoptosis
in cancer cells, reducing the growth rate of cancer cells, reducing the incidence or number of
metastases, reducing tumor size, inhibiting tumor growth, reducing the blood supply to a tumor
or cancer cells, promoting an immune response against cancer cells or a tumor, preventing or
inhibiting the progression of cancer, or increasing the lifespan of a subject with cancer. More
generally, these other compositions would be provided in a combined amount effective to kill or
inhibit proliferation of the cell. This process may involve contacting the cancer cells with the
expression construct and the agent(s) or multiple factor(s) at the same time.           This may be
achieved by contacting the cell with a single composition or pharmacological formulation that
includes both agents, or by contacting the cell with two distinct compositions or formulations, at
the same time, wherein one composition includes the expression construct and the other includes
the second agent(s).
                                                  13

    WO 2012/138858                                                          PCT/US2012/032322
             [0052]    Tumor cell resistance to chemotherapy and radiotherapy agents represents a
major problem in clinical oncology.        One goal of current cancer research is to find ways to
improve the efficacy of chemo- and radiotherapy by combining it with gene therapy.                For
example, the herpes simplex-thymidine kinase (HS-tK) gene, when delivered to brain tumors by
a retroviral vector system, successfully induced susceptibility to the antiviral agent ganciclovir
(Culver, et al., 1992). In the context of the present invention, it is contemplated that cell therapy
could    be   used   similarly   in   conjunction    with  chemotherapeutic,    radiotherapeutic,   or
immunotherapeutic intervention, in addition to other pro-apoptotic or cell cycle regulating
agents.
             [0053]    Alternatively, the present inventive therapy may precede or follow the other
agent treatment by intervals ranging from minutes to weeks. In embodiments where the other
agent and present invention are applied separately to the individual, one would generally ensure
that a significant period of time did not expire between the time of each delivery, such that the
agent and inventive therapy would still be able to exert an advantageously combined effect on
the cell. In such instances, it is contemplated that one may contact the cell with both modalities
within about 12-24 h of each other and, more preferably, within about 6-12 h of each other. In
some situations, it may be desirable to extend the time period for treatment significantly,
however, where several d (2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7) to several wk (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8) lapse between
the respective administrations.
             [0054]     Various combinations may be employed, present invention is "A" and the
secondary agent, such as radio- or chemotherapy, is "B":
             [0055]    A/B/A     B/A/B    B/B/A     A/A/B   A/B/B     B/A/A    A/B/B/B     B/A/B/B
             [0056]    B/B/B/A       B/B/A/B        A/A/B/B     A/B/A/B      A/B/B/A      B/B/A/A
             [0057]    B/A/B/A       B/A/A/B        A/A/A/B     B/A/A/A      A/B/A/A      A/A/B/A
             [0058]     It is expected that the treatment cycles would be repeated as necessary. It
also is contemplated that various standard therapies, as well as surgical intervention, may be
applied in combination with the inventive cell therapy.
                                                    14

    WO 2012/138858                                                           PCT/US2012/032322
          A.     Chemotherapy
              [0059]    Cancer therapies also include a variety of combination therapies with both
chemical and radiation based treatments.        Combination chemotherapies include, for example,
abraxane, altretamine, docetaxel, herceptin, methotrexate,           novantrone,    zoladex, cisplatin
(CDDP),      carboplatin,  procarbazine,   mechlorethamine,      cyclophosphamide,       camptothecin,
ifosfamide,     melphalan,   chlorambucil,   busulfan,   nitrosurea,   dactinomycin,     daunorubicin,
doxorubicin, bleomycin, plicomycin, mitomycin, etoposide (VP16), tamoxifen, raloxifene,
estrogen receptor binding agents, taxol, gemcitabien, navelbine, farnesyl-protein tansferase
inhibitors, transplatinum, 5-fluorouracil, vincristin, vinblastin and methotrexate, or any analog or
derivative variant of the foregoing.
          B.     Radiotherapy
              [0060]     Other factors that cause DNA damage and have been used extensively
include what are commonly known as y-rays, X-rays, and/or the directed delivery of
radioisotopes to tumor cells. Other forms of DNA damaging factors are also contemplated such
as microwaves and UV-irradiation. It is most likely that all of these factors effect a broad range
of damage on DNA, on the precursors of DNA, on the replication and repair of DNA, and on the
assembly and maintenance of chromosomes. Dosage ranges for X-rays range from daily doses
of 50 to 200 roentgens for prolonged periods of time (3 to 4 wk), to single doses of 2000 to 6000
roentgens.     Dosage ranges for radioisotopes vary widely, and depend on the half-life of the
isotope, the strength and type of radiation emitted, and the uptake by the neoplastic cells.
              [0061]     The terms "contacted" and "exposed," when applied to a cell, are used
herein to describe the process by which a therapeutic construct and a chemotherapeutic or
radiotherapeutic agent are delivered to a target cell or are placed in direct juxtaposition with the
target cell. To achieve cell killing or stasis, both agents are delivered to a cell in a combined
amount effective to kill the cell or prevent it from dividing.
          C.     Immunotherapy
              [0062]   Immunotherapeutics, generally, rely on the use of immune effector cells and
molecules to target and destroy cancer cells.       The immune effector may be, for example, an
antibody specific for some marker on the surface of a tumor cell. The antibody alone may serve
as an effector of therapy or it may recruit other cells to actually effect cell killing. The antibody
also may be conjugated to a drug or toxin (chemotherapeutic, radionuclide, ricin A chain, cholera
                                                   15

     WO 2012/138858                                                         PCT/US2012/032322
toxin, pertussis toxin, etc.) and serve merely as a targeting agent. Alternatively, the effector may
be a lymphocyte carrying a surface molecule that interacts, either directly or indirectly, with a
tumor cell target. Various effector cells include cytotoxic T cells and NK cells.
               [0063]     Immunotherapy, thus, could be used as part of a combined therapy, in
conjunction with the present cell therapy.         The general approach for combined therapy is
discussed below. Generally, the tumor cell must bear some marker that is amenable to targeting,
i.e., is not present on the majority of other cells. Many tumor markers exist and any of these may
be suitable for targeting in the context of the present invention. Common tumor markers include
carcinoembryonic antigen, prostate specific antigen, urinary tumor associated antigen, fetal
antigen, tyrosinase (p97), gp68, TAG-72, HMFG, Sialyl Lewis Antigen, MucA, MucB, PLAP,
estrogen receptor, laminin receptor, erb B and p155.
           D.     Genes
               [0064]    In yet another embodiment, the secondary treatment is a gene therapy in
which a therapeutic polynucleotide is administered before, after, or at the same time as the
present invention clinical embodiments.        A variety of expression products are encompassed
within the invention, including inducers of cellular proliferation, inhibitors of cellular
proliferation, or regulators of programmed cell death.
           E.     Surgery
               [0065]    Approximately 60% of persons with cancer will undergo surgery of some
type, which includes preventative, diagnostic or staging, curative and palliative surgery.
Curative surgery is a cancer treatment that may be used in conjunction with other therapies, such
as the treatment of the present invention, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, hormonal therapy, gene
therapy, immunotherapy and/or alternative therapies.
               [0066]   Curative surgery includes resection in which all or part of cancerous tissue
is physically removed, excised, and/or destroyed. Tumor resection refers to physical removal of
at least part of a tumor.     In addition to tumor resection, treatment by surgery includes laser
surgery, cryosurgery, electrosurgery, and miscopically controlled surgery (Mohs' surgery). It is
further contemplated that the present invention may be used in conjunction with removal of
superficial cancers, precancers, or incidental amounts of normal tissue.
                                                    16

    WO 2012/138858                                                            PCT/US2012/032322
              [0067]      Upon excision of part of all of cancerous cells, tissue, or tumor, a cavity
may be formed in the body. Treatment may be accomplished by perfusion, direct injection or
local application of the area with an additional anti-cancer therapy.         Such treatment may be
repeated, for example, every 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 days, or every 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 weeks or every 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months. These treatments may be of varying dosages as well.
          F.      Other agents
              [0068]      It is contemplated that other agents may be used in combination with the
present invention to improve the therapeutic efficacy of treatment.           These additional agents
include immunomodulatory agents, agents that affect the upregulation of cell surface receptors
and GAP junctions, cytostatic and differentiation agents, inhibitors of cell adhesion, or agents
that   increase     the    sensitivity of  the   hyperproliferative   cells  to   apoptotic   inducers.
Immunomodulatory agents include tumor necrosis factor; interferon alpha, beta, and gamma; IL
2 and other cytokines; F42K and other cytokine analogs; or MIP-1, MIP-ibeta, MCP-1,
RANTES, and other chemokines. It is further contemplated that the upregulation of cell surface
receptors or their ligands such as Fas / Fas ligand, DR4 or DR5 / TRAIL would potentiate the
apoptotic inducing abililties of the present invention by establishment of an autocrine or
paracrine effect on hyperproliferative cells.      Increases intercellular signaling by elevating the
number of GAP junctions would increase the anti-hyperproliferative effects on the neighboring
hyperproliferative cell population. In other embodiments, cytostatic or differentiation agents can
be used in combination with the present invention to improve the anti-hyerproliferative efficacy
of the treatments. Inhibitors of cell adhesion are contemplated to improve the efficacy of the
present invention.       Examples of cell adhesion inhibitors are focal adhesion kinase (FAKs)
inhibitors and Lovastatin. It is further contemplated that other agents that increase the sensitivity
of a hyperproliferative cell to apoptosis, such as the antibody c225, could be used in combination
with the present invention to improve the treatment efficacy.
              [0069]        Hormonal therapy may also be used in conjunction with the present
invention or in combination with any other cancer therapy previously described.             The use of
hormones may be employed in the treatment of certain cancers such as breast, prostate, ovarian,
or cervical cancer to lower the level or block the effects of certain hormones such as testosterone
or estrogen. This treatment is often used in combination with at least one other cancer therapy as
a treatment option or to reduce the risk of metastases.
                                                    17

    WO 2012/138858                                                         PCT/US2012/032322
             [0070]     DNA methyltransferase inhibitors and/or histone deacetylase inhibitors.
Exemplary DNA methyltransferase inhibitors include, for example, 5-azacytidine, 5-aza-2'
deoxycytidine, 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl-5-azacytosine and dihydro-5-azacytidine. Exemplary
HDAC inhibitors include hydroxamic acids, such as trichostatin A; cyclic tetrapeptides (such as
trapoxin B), and the depsipeptides; benzamides; electrophilic ketones; and the aliphatic acid
compounds such as phenylbutyrate and valproic acid.
          G.     Regulators of Programmed Cell Death
[0136]      Apoptosis, or programmed cell death, is an essential process for normal embryonic
development, maintaining homeostasis in adult tissues, and suppressing carcinogenesis (Kerr et
al., 1972).   The Bcl-2 family of proteins and ICE-like proteases have been demonstrated to be
important regulators and effectors of apoptosis in other systems. The Bcl-2 protein, discovered
in association with follicular lymphoma, plays a prominent role in controlling apoptosis and
enhancing cell survival in response to diverse apoptotic stimuli (Bakhshi et al., 1985; Cleary and
Sklar, 1985; Cleary et al., 1986; Tsujimoto et al., 1985; Tsujimoto and Croce, 1986).           The
evolutionarily conserved Bcl-2 protein now is recognized to be a member of a family of related
proteins, which can be categorized as death agonists or death antagonists.
[0137]       Subsequent to its discovery, it was shown that Bcl-2 acts to suppress cell death
triggered by a variety of stimuli. Also, it now is apparent that there is a family of Bcl-2 cell
death regulatory proteins that share in common structural and sequence homologies.           These
different family members have been shown to either possess similar functions to Bcl-2 (e.g.,
BclXL, Bclw, Bcls, Mcl-i, Al, Bfl-1) or counteract Bcl-2 function and promote cell death (e.g.,
Bax, Bak, Bik, Bim, Bid, Bad, Harakiri).
          H.     Angiogenic inhibitors
[0139]     In certain embodiments the present invention may concern administration of targeting
moieties operatively coupled to anti-angiogenic agents, such as angiotensin, laminin peptides,
fibronectin peptides, plasminogen activator inhibitors, tissue metalloproteinase         inhibitors,
interferons, interleukin 12, platelet factor 4, IP-10, Gro-B, thrombospondin, 2-methoxyoestradiol,
proliferin-related protein, carboxiamidotriazole, CM1O1, Marimastat, pentosan polysulphate,
angiopoietin 2 (Regeneron), interferon-alpha, herbimycin A, PNU145156E, 16K prolactin
fragment, Linomide, thalidomide, pentoxifylline, genistein, TNP-470, endostatin, paclitaxel,
                                                   18

    WO 2012/138858                                                        PCT/US2012/032322
accutin,   angiostatin, cidofovir, vincristine, bleomycin,     AGM-1470,     platelet factor 4 or
minocycline.
[0140]     Proliferation of tumors cells relies heavily on extensive tumor vascularization, which
accompanies cancer progression.      Thus, inhibition of new blood vessel formation with anti
angiogenic agents and targeted destruction of existing blood vessels have been introduced as an
effective and relatively non-toxic approach to tumor treatment. (Arap et al., 1998; Arap et al.,
1998; Ellerby et al., 1999). A variety of anti-angiogenic agents and/or blood vessel inhibitors are
known. (e.g., Folkman, 1997; Eliceiri and Cheresh, 2001).
          I.    Cytotoxic Agents
[0142]       Chemotherapeutic (cytotoxic) agents may be used to treat various disease states,
including cancer.     Chemotherapeutic (cytotoxic) agents of potential use include, but are not
limited to, 5-fluorouracil,    bleomycin, busulfan, camptothecin, carboplatin,        chlorambucil,
cisplatin (CDDP),      cyclophosphamide,     dactinomycin, daunorubicin,    doxorubicin, estrogen
receptor binding agents, etoposide (VP16), famesyl-protein transferase inhibitors, gemcitabine,
ifosfamide,   mechlorethamine,     melphalan,    mitomycin,   navelbine,  nitrosurea,   plicomycin,
procarbazine, raloxifene, tamoxifen,       taxol, temazolomide    (an aqueous form of DTIC),
transplatinum, vinblastine and methotrexate, vincristine, or any analog or derivative variant of
the foregoing.     Most chemotherapeutic agents fall into the categories of alkylating agents,
antimetabolites,    antitumor  antibiotics,   corticosteroid hormones,   mitotic    inhibitors,   and
nitrosoureas, hormone agents, miscellaneous agents, and any analog or derivative variant thereof.
[0143]     Chemotherapeutic agents and methods of administration, dosages, etc. are well known
to those of skill in the art (see for example, the "Physicians Desk Reference", Goodman &
Gilman's "The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics" and in "Remington's Pharmaceutical
Sciences" 15h ed., pp 1035-1038 and 1570-1580, incorporated herein by reference in relevant
parts), and may be combined with the invention in light of the disclosures herein.              Some
variation in dosage will necessarily occur depending on the condition of the subject being
treated. The person responsible for administration will, in any event, determine the appropriate
dose for the individual subject. Of course, all dosages and agents described herein are exemplary
rather than limiting, and other doses or agents may be used by a skilled artisan for a specific
patient or application. Any dosage in-between these points, or range derivable therein is also
expected to be of use in the invention.
                                                   19

    WO 2012/138858                                                          PCT/US2012/032322
          J.    Alkylating agents
[0145]     Alkylating agents are drugs that directly interact with genomic DNA to prevent cells
from proliferating.    This category of chemotherapeutic drugs represents agents that affect all
phases of the cell cycle, that is, they are not phase-specific. An alkylating agent, may include,
but is not limited to, a nitrogen mustard, an ethylenimene, a methylmelamine, an alkyl sulfonate,
a nitrosourea or a triazines.     They include but are not limited to:      busulfan, chlorambucil,
cisplatin, cyclophosphamide (cytoxan), dacarbazine, ifosfamide, mechlorethamine (mustargen),
and melphalan.
          K.    Antimetabolites
[0147]       Antimetabolites disrupt DNA and RNA synthesis.           Unlike alkylating agents, they
specifically influence the cell cycle during S phase. Antimetabolites can be differentiated into
various categories, such as folic acid analogs, pyrimidine analogs and purine analogs and related
inhibitory compounds.       Antimetabolites include but are not limited to, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU),
cytarabine (Ara-C), fludarabine, gemcitabine, and methotrexate.
          L.    Natural Products
[0149]    Natural products generally refer to compounds originally isolated from a natural source,
and identified as having a pharmacological activity. Such compounds, analogs and derivatives
thereof may be, isolated from a natural source, chemically synthesized or recombinantly
produced by any technique known to those of skill in the art. Natural products include such
categories as mitotic inhibitors, antitumor antibiotics, enzymes and biological response
modifiers.
[0150]    Mitotic inhibitors include plant alkaloids and other natural agents that can inhibit either
protein synthesis required for cell division or mitosis.       They operate during a specific phase
during the cell cycle.     Mitotic inhibitors include, for example, docetaxel, etoposide (VP16),
teniposide, paclitaxel, taxol, vinblastine, vincristine, and vinorelbine.
[0151]     Taxoids are a class of related compounds isolated from the bark of the ash tree, Taxus
brevifolia. Taxoids include but are not limited to compounds such as docetaxel and paclitaxel.
Paclitaxel binds to tubulin (at a site distinct from that used by the vinca alkaloids) and promotes
the assembly of microtubules.
                                                   20

     WO 2012/138858                                                          PCT/US2012/032322
 [0152]     Vinca alkaloids are a type of plant alkaloid identified to have pharmaceutical activity.
 They include such compounds as vinblastine (VLB) and vincristine.
           M.    Antibiotics
 [0154]     Certain antibiotics have both antimicrobial and cytotoxic activity. These drugs also
 interfere with DNA by chemically inhibiting enzymes and mitosis or altering cellular
 membranes. These agents are not phase specific so they work in all phases of the cell cycle.
 Examples of cytotoxic antibiotics include, but are not limited to, bleomycin, dactinomycin,
 daunorubicin, doxorubicin (Adriamycin), plicamycin (mithramycin) and idarubicin.
           N.    Miscellaneous Agents
              [0156]     Miscellaneous cytotoxic agents that do not fall into the previous categories
 include, but are not limited to, platinum coordination complexes, anthracenediones, substituted
 ureas, methyl hydrazine derivatives, amsacrine, L-asparaginase, and tretinoin.             Platinum
 coordination complexes include such compounds as carboplatin and cisplatin (cis-DDP). An
 exemplary anthracenedione is mitoxantrone. An exemplary substituted urea is hydroxyurea. An
 exemplary methyl hydrazine derivative is procarbazine (N-methylhydrazine, MIH).               These
 examples are not limiting and it is contemplated that any known cytotoxic, cytostatic or cytocidal
 agent may be attached to targeting peptides and administered to a targeted organ, tissue or cell
 type within the scope of the invention.
VIII.            Kits of the Invention
              Any of the compositions described herein may be comprised in a kit. In a non
 limiting example modified cells comprising the chimeric cytokine receptors and/or reagents to
 generate such cells may be comprised in a kit. Such reagents include one or more of cells,
 nucleic acid vectors, buffers, nucleotides, oligonucleotides, and so forth. The kits will comprise
 any of its components in one or more suitable containers.
              The components of the kits may be packaged either in aqueous media or in
 lyophilized form. The container means of the kits will generally include at least one vial, test
 tube, flask, bottle, syringe or other container means, into which a component may be placed, and
 preferably, suitably aliquoted. Where there are more than one components in the kit, the kit also
 will generally contain a second, third or other additional container into which the additional
 components may be separately placed. However, various combinations of components may be
 comprised in a vial. The kits of the present invention also will typically include a means for
                                                  21

    WO 2012/138858                                                           PCT/US2012/032322
containing the components in close confinement for commercial sale.             Such containers may
include injection or blow-molded plastic containers into which the desired vials are retained.
The components of the kit may be provided as dried powder(s).                 When reagents and/or
components are provided as a dry powder, the powder can be reconstituted by the addition of a
suitable solvent. It is envisioned that the solvent may also be provided in another container
means.
                                            EXAMPLES
             [0157]    The following examples are included to demonstrate preferred embodiments
of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed
in the examples which follow represent techniques discovered by the inventors to function well
in the practice of the invention, and thus can be considered to constitute preferred modes for its
practice. However, those of skill in the art should, in light of the present disclosure, appreciate
that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain
a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
                                            EXAMPLE 1
    REVERSING THE EFFECTS OF THE TUMOR MICROENVIRONMENT USING
                             CHIMERIC CYTOKINE RECEPTORS
             Pancreatic cancer remains the fourth commonest cause of cancer mortality in
developed countries. Clinical manifestations develop late and the disease metastasizes early, and
the incidence and mortality rates have remained almost identical for >50 years (Sweeney et al.,
2009; Wong et al., 2009). Improved treatment strategies based on understanding of the disease
biology are thus needed. Tumor-associated antigens (TAA) expressed by malignant cells can be
immunogenic, and thus are potential targets for immune destruction (Tassi et al, 2008; Han et al.,
2009; Rong et al., 2009; Li et al., 2008; Plate, 2007). The adoptive transfer of in vitro expanded
TAA-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) can effectively treat tumors including Hodgkin's
Lymphoma and melanoma (Bollard et al., 2007; Morgan et al., 2006). While infusion of CTLs
targeting pancreatic cancer-expressed TAA has therapeutic potential, these tumors use multiple
mechanisms of immune evasion, including downregulation of antigen expression, and the release
of soluble immunomodulatory cytokines and other substances that favor development of a Th2
                                                  22

    WO 2012/138858                                                         PCT/US2012/032322
rather than a cytotoxic Thi type immune response (Leen et al., 2007; Selcean et al., 2009;
Formentini et al., 2009; Kornmann et al., 1999; Prokopchuk et al., 2005; Seruga et al., 2008).
            To overcome these barriers and develop an effective immunotherapeutic strategy
against pancreatic cancer, embodiments of the invention concern generating CTL lines that target
antigens expressed on malignant cells, and engineering these CTL to express chimeric molecules
containing the cytokine-binding exodomains of the IL13 receptor a (IL13Ral) and the
IL4Ra linked to the endodomains of the IL2Ry and IL7Ra, which transmit Thi signals
(Formentini et al., 2009; Prokopchuk et al., 2005).   In specific embodiments of the invention,
these manipulations render CTL resistant to the Th2-polarizing tumor microenvironment, and
instead sustain Thi signaling to the CTLs targeted to TAA (Vera et al., 2009). One can begin by
examining biopsy and serum samples from cancer patients, such as pancreatic cancer patients,
and document the pattern of TAA expression and the levels and pattern of Th2 cytokines
produced. One can then determine whether one can expand CTLs directed against the expressed
antigens from patient PBMC, and the effects of modifying them so that they remain polarized to
Thi activity even in the Th2-inducing tumor microenvironment.             In embodiments of the
invention, T cells reactive against pancreatic cancer-associated antigens can be generated from
patient PBMC and modified to retain Thl function even in the Th2 cytokine milieu of the tumor.
Such embodiments can be characterized by three exemplary approaches: 1) document the pattern
of TAA expression and assess the cytokine profile of primary biopsy samples; 2) generate tumor
reactive CTL specific for multiple pancreatic cancer-associated target antigens and evaluate their
specificity and function in vitro; and 3) protect CTLs from the inhibitory effects of signaling
with Th2 cytokines by forced expression of chimeric cytokine receptors.
BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE
            Pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer causes an estimated 213,000 annual deaths
worldwide (Wong et al., 2009). Surgical resection remains the only curative therapy, resulting in
a 15-20% 5-yr survival rate, but this option is not available to the majority who are diagnosed
with locally advanced or metastatic disease (Sweeney et al., 2009; Tanis et al., 2009).
Conventional chemotherapy and radiotherapy seldom produce substantive benefit, underscoring
the need for novel therapeutics.
            Adoptive immunotherapy for virus-associated malignancies. The inventors have
routinely generated virus-specific CTL for adoptive transfer (Leen et al., 2006; Leen et al., 2009)
                                                23

     WO 2012/138858                                                           PCT/US2012/032322
and studies in >100 stem cell recipients have shown that donor-derived EBV-CTLs can safely
protect patients against EBV-driven lymphomas and cure patients even with bulky established
disease (Heslop et al., 2009; Heslop et al., 1996; Rooney et al., 1995). This approach has also
shown success in the treatment of EBV+ve tumors in immunocompetent individuals (Bolard et
al., 2007; Louis et al., 2009; Straathof et al., 2005; Bollard et al., 2004). In a recent phase I trial,
9/10 patients treated in remission of high-risk EBV+ve HL or NHL remained in remission, while
5/6 patients with active relapsed disease had a tumor response, which was complete in 4 (Bollard
et al., 2007).    These studies demonstrated that functional EBV-specific T cells increased in
frequency in patient blood after infusion (implying expansion in vivo), homed to tumor tissues
and eliminated tumor cells.
             Adoptive immunotherapy for virus-independent malignancies. Efforts to exploit
adoptively transferred CTLs for treatment of virus-independent cancer has been hindered by (i)
limited information regarding expression of TAAs, (ii) lack of reproducible methods to generate
CTL lines directed against expressed antigens, given that circulating reactive T cells are often
anergized or tolerized, and (iii) immune evasion strategies employed by the tumor which limit
the in vivo activity of adoptively-transferred T cells. These include downregulation of expressed
target antigens and secretion of inhibitory cytokines that serve to recruit regulatory immune cells
to the tumor and directly inhibit and/or re-polarize cytotoxic Th1 T cells to an ineffective Th2
phenotype (Selcean et al., 2009; Formentini et al., 2009; Prokopchuk et al., 2005). The inventors
have developed strategies to reactivate anergized/tolerized T cells using optimized antigen
presenting cells (APCs) and enhancing cytokines to produce TAA-CTL (Kaka et al., 2009;
Foster et al., 2007; Kaka et al., 2008).
             The inventors below provide strategies for identifying            targets expressed by
pancreatic cancer and modulating the response of the in vitro generated TAA-CTLs to the
cytokines present in the tumor microenvironment; these strategies are developed to target
pancreatic cancer using adoptive immunotherapy.
             Determining the pattern of TAA expression There have been limited reports of the
TAA expressed by pancreatic cancer biopsy samples. Thus, one can comprehensively document
TAA expression in pancreatic cancer using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and RT-PCR, for
example.
                                                   24

    WO 2012/138858                                                         PCT/US2012/032322
             Generation of TAA-specific CTL in vitro The inventors have developed protocols to
generate TAA-CTL from patient PBMC using DCs expressing whole antigen (pepmix or TAA
encoding plasmids) as APCs and co-culture in an optimal cytokine cocktail (Table 1). One can
also determine whether this strategy can be applied to the generation of TAA-CTL targeting
pancreatic cancer-associated antigens.
             Overcoming tumor immune evasion strategies For effective immunotherapy, tumor
immune evasion strategies must be characterized and circumvented. Both IL13 and IL4 make a
major contribution to inhibiting and repolarizing Th1 effector T cells critical for tumor
elimination in pancreatic cancer (Formentini et al., 2009; Prokopchuk et al., 2005).        One can
characterize arming TAA-CTLs with a chimeric cytokine receptor that binds these inhibitory
cytokines and converts their intracellular consequences to a Thi signal, thus improving the
efficacy of the CTLs.
EXEMPLARY RESULTS
             Detection of TAA on cancer biopsy samples. To initially model the approach,
paraffin embedded 4-tm sections of lymph nodes were obtained from patients with Hodgkin
Disease or Follicular B cell lymphoma from the Dept. of Pathology at TCH, The Methodist
Hospital, and the Children's Oncology Group. Sections were deparaffinized and rehydrated.
Triton-X-100 and Digest ALLi (Zymed) were used for antigen retrieval. The sections were
stained with primary antibodies for MAGE-A4, PRAME, and Survivin. Antigen expression was
successfully detected with (i) powervision+ kit (immunovision) for rabbit or mouse primary
antibodies or (ii) ABC kit (vector labs) for other primary antibodies. All antibodies were
validated using positive and negative control slides and a tissue array with non-cancerous tissue.
             Generation of TAA-CTL with simultaneous specificity for multiple TAAs using
pepmix-pulsed or plasmid-nucleofected APCs. The inventors optimized the CTL generation
protocol by using DCs pulsed with a mastermix of pepmixes spanning the exemplary lymphoma
associated antigens SSX2, Survivin, and MAGEA4 as APCs, and co-culturing in the presence of
IL7 (1Ong/ml), IL12 (1Ong/ml), IL15 (1Ong/ml) and IL6 (1000U/ml) (Table 1).
Group                    Th1 polarizing             Proliferation/survival   Inhibits Tregs
1                        IL-12                      IL7; IL-15
                                                 25

    WO 2012/138858                                                       PCT/US2012/032322
2                         IL-12                    IL7; IL-15              IL-6
3                         IL-12, IL-27             IL7; IL-15
4                         IL-12, IL-27             IL7; IL-15              IL-6
             TAA-CTL were generated with simultaneous specificity against all three of the
stimulating antigens. Importantly, CTL generated from the same donor using the same antigens,
but cultured using suboptimal cytokine combinations (Table 1; Groups 1, 3, 4) produced
monospecific CTL directed against the immunodominant SSX2 antigen, thus demonstrating the
utility of optimizing cytokine combinations to generate multiTM-CTLs, in at least certain
embodiments. The consistency and robustness of the system was confirmed by generating
multiTM-CTL from 6/6 donors, using DCs nucleofected with DNA plasmids encoding SSX2,
Survivin, and MAGEA4. The inventors also generated multiTAA-CTL simultaneously targeting
the leukemia-expressed antigens WT1, PRAME, survivin, and Proteinase 3 (n=3) as well as
exemplary heptatocullular carcinoma-expressed antigens MAGE1, MAGE3 and AFP (n=3).
These multiTAA-CTL were functional, as assessed by IFNy ELispot and cytotoxicity assays.
One can apply this technology to the generation of multiTAA-CTL targeting the most frequently
expressed pancreatic cancer-expressed antigens.
             To reverse the effects of Th2 si2naling on CTL and ensure exposure to these
cytokines instead sustains a Th1 type response            Engineering 2 intermediate retroviral
constructs and preliminary testing in transgenic CTLs. The Th2 cytokines IL4 and IL13, which
bind to receptors with shared components, have been reported to suppress Th1 immunity in
subjects with pancreatic cancer (Formentini et al., 2009; Prokopchuk et al., 2005). The IL13
receptor is composed of the IL4Ra chain and IL-13Ral chain. The IL13 cytokine binds with
low affinity to the IL13al chain, then recruits the IL4R a chain to increase the binding affinity.
In contrast, IL4 first binds the IL4Ra, which then recruits either the IL13Ral or the IL2Ryc
chain (FIG. 1). Signals from both receptor complexes are transduced by the IL4Ra chain, so that
both IL4 and IL13 recruit the same Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of
transcription (Stat6) pathway. As a consequence, exposure to either cytokine has overlapping
immunoinhibitory consequences       (Formentini et al., 2009; Prokopchuk et al., 2005).        To
counteract these effects on Th1 TAA-CTL the inventors constructed two exemplary first
                                                26

    WO 2012/138858                                                           PCT/US2012/032322
generation retroviral vectors. As presented in FIG. 2A, Construct #1 encodes a fusion protein of
the IL13Ral exodomain with the IL2Ry endodomain (IL-13Ral/IL-2Ry) linked to GFP through
an IRES. Construct #2 encodes a fusion of the IL4Ra exodomain and the IL7Ra endodomain
(IL-4Ra/ IL-7Ra) linked to mOrange. Thus, cells co-expressing both constructs induce an
intracellular Th1 signal upon engagement of either IL4 or IL13 cytokines, in specific
embodiments of the invention. To assess the efficiency of retroviral transduction expression of
GFP or mOrange was evaluated on double transduced antigen-specific CTLs. As expected this
resulted in a mixed population of CTLs that expressed either construct #1 (GFP-positive - lower
right quandrant), construct #2 (mOrange-positive - upper left quandrant) or double positive
(GFP/mOrange - upper right quandrant) (FIG. 2B). The function of the transgenes was
confirmed by measuring phosphorylation of StatS after exposure to IL2 (50U/ml), IL
4(1000U/ml) or IL13 (5ng/ml). Phospho Stat5 was detected in control cells only after IL2
administration; in contrast phospho Stat5 was detected in transgenic cells co-expressing both
constructs after exposure to any of the 3 cytokines (FIG. 2C). It was confirmed that these
cytokines were acting as growth factors using microscopic analyses (FIG. 2D).
EXEMPLARY EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN AND METHODS
             Pancreatic cancer is an aggressive disease with dismal prognosis. Although evidence
for tumor-specific T cell immunity exists (Tassi et al., 2008; rong et al., 2009; Plate, 2007; Alters
et al., 1997; Cappello et al., 2009; Lepoisto et al., 2008; Kawaoka et al., 2008; Kondo et al.,
2008), immunosuppressive       cytokines in the tumor environment appear to limit T cell
effectiveness (Selcean et al., 2009; Formentini et al., 2009; Kornmann et al., 1999; Prokopchuk
et al., 2005).  In specific embodiments, infusion of ex vivo expanded TAA-CTL, which have
been (i) cultured in Th1 polarizing cytokines to reverse anergy, (ii) selected to be specific for
multiple TAAs to minimize escape through epitope loss, and (iii) rendered resistant to inhibitory
soluble factors present in vivo produce clinical benefit and offer a novel therapeutic option for
pancreatic cancer.
             In a first approach, one can do the following: a) assess the cytokine profile of
pancreatic tumors, and b) document their pattern of TAA expression. One can establish the
pattern of Th1 and Th2/inhibitory cytokines in patients' sera as well as cytokines released from
cultured primary tumor samples, determine the pattern of TAA expression in biopsies using IHC
and RT-PCR, for example, and generate a bank of DNA plasmids encoding the most frequently
                                                 27

    WO 2012/138858                                                      PCT/US2012/032322
expressed antigens for use in CTL stimulation protocols described below. Data from this
approach allows design of T cells for adoptive immunotherapy that can be targeted to tumor
antigens and made resistant to tumor inhibition.
            Exemplary methods are as follows. Cytokine analysis. One can document the
cytokine profile of, for example, 30-50 banked patient serum samples and compare these with
serum collected from, for example, 30 healthy donors using a Thl/Th2 cytokine array, which
detects IL1I3, IL2, IL4, IL5, IL6, IL7, IL8, IL10, IL12, IL13, IFNy, GM-CSF and TNFa; one can
measure TGF3 by ELISA. One can also collect fresh biopsy samples, culture for 4-5 days in
RPMI+5% HuS and analyze the supernatant using the same cytokines. This allows assessment of
the full range of inhibitory and stimulatory cytokines circulating in these patients and being
produced by the tumor.
            TAA Expression. One can screen biopsy samples for TAA expression, including
those previously claimed to be associated with pancreatic cancer (CEA, MUC1, MUC2,
MUC5AC, MUC6, and telomerase) (Han et al., 2009; Li et al., 2008) as well as PRAME,
MAGEA, SSX2/4, NY-ESO, and Survivin by IHC and RT-PCR.
            DNA plasmid bank generation. One can generate plasmids encoding the 7 antigens
(by example) most frequently detected in screening. These can be cloned into a p-Max
expression plasmid under the control of a CMV promoter, which ensures high levels of transgene
expression and will be co-expressed with GFP to enable assessment of nucleofection efficiency.
The inventors have previously validated DNA plasmids as an effective source of antigen for the
generation of both virus (Gerdemann et al., 2009) and tumor-specific CTL.
            In specific embodiments of the invention, one detects a predominance of the
Th2/inhibitory cytokines IL13 and IL4 in patient sera and in supernatant from cultured biopsies,
because both are produced in excess by pancreatic cell lines and used by the tumor as autocrine
growth factors. In specific embodiments one detects TAA expression on patient biopsies.
Published reports indicate that the majority of tumors are CEA-positive, approximately 60%
express MUC-1, while MUC-6 is less frequently detected (<15%), and one can further
characterize frequency and intensity of TAA expression. A plasmid bank expressing the most
frequently detected TAAs may be generated.
            Table 2: Exemplary Tissue Samples
                                                 28

    WO 2012/138858                                                        PCT/US2012/032322
Tissues                                           Number of Samples
Blood cells                                       232
Cyst fluid                                        22
Normal Tissue                                     701
Pancreas juice                                    66
Plasma                                            574
Serum                                             559
Tumor Tissue                                      780
Pancreatitis                                      178
Total                                             3092
             These described embodiments provide the profile of TAA and inhibitory cytokine
expression by pancreatic tumors, allowing design of targeting and protective strategies.
             In a second approach, one can generate tumor-specific CTL specific for multiple
pancreatic cancer-associated target antigens and evaluate their specificity and function in vitro.
One can determine whether CTL directed against pancreatic cancer TAAs can be expanded from
subjects with pancreatic cancer. One can generate CTL, first with single and then with multi
antigen specificity, based on success in other cancers, with the intent of minimizing immune
evasion mediated by tumor antigen loss variants.
             Exemplary methods are as follows: One can obtain, for example, 40-50 ml of patient
blood that will be a source of APCs and responder T cells. One can generate CTL lines from 20
25 patients, for example.
             DC generation: DCs are differentiated from CD14-selected monocytes by culture in
GM-CSF and IL-4 in CellGenix DC medium. CD14-positive cells are cryopreserved for
subsequent stimulation. The cultured DCs re matured for 24hrs, nucleofected using the different
                                               29

    WO 2012/138858                                                          PCT/US2012/032322
antigen-encoding DNA plasmids generated as described above, for example, then matured for a
further 24hrs. Phenotype and nucleofection efficiency are assessed by measuring expression of
maturation/co-stimulatory molecules CD80, CD83, CD86, HLA-Dr and GFP using flow
cytometry.
              CTL stimulation: For activation of antigen-specific T cells, nucleofected DCs are co
cultured with the CD14-positive PBMCs at a R:S ratio of 10:1 in CTL medium (45% Click's,
45% advanced RPMI, 5% human serum and 5mM                 L-glutamax) in the optimized cytokine
cocktail (IL-7, IL-12, IL15 and IL6) (Table 1) to promote optimal CTL survival and expansion.
To generate multiTAA-CTL one can transfect DCs with multiple plasmids simultaneously. The
expanded cells are restimulated on day 9 with nucleofected DCs and cultured with IL7, and twice
weekly IL-2 (50U/ml) from day 12. CTL expansion and viability are assessed by trypan blue
exclusion. After 3 stimulations, one can analyze cell phenotype using markers including CD4,
CD8, CD56, CD16, CD45RA, CD45RO, CD25, CD28, CD27, and CD62L to determine the
activation and memory (effector vs. central memory) status of the CTL. One can measure
production of Th1 (IFN-y, TNFa, IL2) and Th2 (IL4, IL5, IL13, IL1O, and TGFP) cytokines in
response to stimulation (either peptides or nucleofected DCs), using ELispot or intracellular
cytokine staining. Epitope breadth is assessed by ELispot, for example, using overlapping
peptide pools to stimulate CD4 and CD8 selected cells and it is determined which CD4 and CD8
epitopes are recognized within each protein. Cytolytic function is assessed by Cr5 1 release assay
using TAA-expressing APCs, HLA-matched pancreatic cell lines, as well as autologous tumor as
target cells.
              In specific embodiments of the invention, polyclonal multiTAA-CTL re readily
produced from patient PBMC using nucleofected DCs as APCs. In certain cases not all the
antigens are immunogenic in all donors, although in specific cases one can consistently generate
multiTAA-CTL recognizing at least 2 antigens for each subject. Based on findings in CTL lines
in combination with the TAA expression profile identified as described above, one can identify
the optimal 4-5 targets (for example) for future immunotherapy. The expanded cells may be
polyclonal (CD4+ and CD8+) with populations of central (CD62L+) and effector memory
(CD62L-), and terminally differentiated effectors. In the presence of the optimized cytokine
cocktail, in specific embodiments the CTL will have a Th1 cytokine profile and will produce
TNFa, IFNy, and IL2 upon restimulation, allowing identification of a panel of CD4+ and CD8+
T cell epitopes for each antigen. In some embodiments of the invention, the expanded cells retain
                                                 30

    WO 2012/138858                                                           PCT/US2012/032322
specificity and activity for all the stimulating antigens as measured by flow cytometry,
intracellular cytokine staining, and cytolytic assays, for example.
              In cases where there may be failure to generate TAA-CTL using nucleofected DCs as
APCs, one can utilize pepmixes for antigenic stimulation. In cases where there may be failure to
simultaneously activate and expand CTL with multiTAA specificity, as for viral antigens, not all
TAAs are equally immunogenic and one may see antigenic competition and loss of specificity
against weaker antigens over multiple rounds of stimulation. However, the optimized cytokine
combination enables one to sustain multispecificity within the lines. In cases wherein there may
be poor proliferation of TAA-CTL in vitro (although this is unlikely because the inventors
consistently achieve 20-40 fold expansion of TAA-CTL over a 16 day culture period in a G-Rex
bioreactor; Vera et al,. 2009) , but if this expansion is not sustained one can substitute IL15 for
IL2 that augments proliferation without loss of specificity (Quintarelli et al., 2007).     In cases
wherein the frequency of reactive T cells is below the limit of detection of the IFNy ELispot and
intracellular staining assays, although this is unlikely because the ELlspot can detect as few as
1/100,000 cytokine-secreting cells, one can analyze CTL that have been multiply stimulated (and
doubled 7-10 times each stimulation, for example) so one would expect that the frequency of T
cells is sufficiently amplified to allow detection. If not, one can restimulate.
              In embodiments of the invention, there is developed a reproducible technique to
manufacture polyclonal CTL with specificity for multiple epitopes within multiple tumor
antigens expressed in cancer, including at least pancreatic cancer.
              In a third approach, one can protect CTLs from the inhibitory effects of signaling
with Th2 cytokines by forced expression of chimeric cytokine receptors.                In particular
embodiments, there is generation of a single bicistronic construct encoding the exodomains of
the IL13Ra and/or IL4Ra linked to the endodomains of IL2Ry and/or IL7Ra, for example.
              One tumor immune evasion strategy employed by pancreatic cancer, for example, is
the release of Th2-inhibitory cytokines, such as IL13 and IL4, which i) enhance cancer cell
proliferation and ii) attenuate and re-polarize TAA-specific Thl-CTl to Th2 cells. Thus to
improve the efficacy of adoptively-transferred multiTAA-CTL one can render them resistant to
the inhibitory effects of IL13 and IL4 using a chimeric cytokine receptor that links the
exodomains of the receptors that bind these Th2 cytokines to the signaling endodomains of two
stimulatory (Thl) cytokine receptors.
                                                   31

    WO 2012/138858                                                        PCT/US2012/032322
            Exemplary methods are as follows: The inventors have already prepared and tested 2
exemplary functional intermediate retroviral vectors; construct #1 encodes IL-13Ral/IL-2Ry
IRES-GFP and construct #2           encodes IL-4RWIL-7Ra-IRES-mOrange          (FIG. 2).  Unique
compatible restriction enzyme sites (Xhol-Mlul) were included to allow easy replacement of
GFP in construct #1 with the IL4Ra/IL7Ra fusion protein from construct #2 (FIG. 2a) in order
to produce a single bicistronic construct (#3) that encodes the exodomains for both IL4 and IL13
receptors with the signal transducing IL2 and IL7 receptors (FIG. 3a). One can validate its
function by standard means in the art. Retroviral supernatant can be prepared using transient
transfection of 293T cells and CTl transduction can follow published protocols (Vera et al.,
2009; Quintarelli et al., 2007; Vera et al., 2006; Savoldo et al., 2007). One can evaluate the
expression of recombinant proteins by FACS analysis for IL13Ra and IL4Ra, and the
functionality of the IL2Ry and IL7Ra endodomains by phospho Stat 5 analysis in the presence of
IL2, IL4 or IL13. One can then generate a stable PG-13 producer line containing the Gag and Pol
sequences in trans, allowing stable virus production. One can isolate single cell clones and test
them for functional titers and replication competent vector.
            In specific embodiments of the invention, there is equal expression of both IL13Ral
and IL4Ra as evaluated by FACS, and that both IL2Ry and IL7Ra endodomains will transmit a
Th1 signal detectable by phospho Stat5 analysis. There is transducing of >20% of T cell targets,
for example, and transduced cells are selected over time by culture in IL4 or IL13 (Vera et al.,
2009; Bollard et al., 2007; Savoldo et al., 2007).
            In some cases there may be cross-pairing between the IL13Ral exodomain and the
wildtype IL4Ra, which is weakly expressed on CTL, and this could result in low level
background Stat6 signaling. However, the high ratio of transgenic:wildtype receptor expression
decreases the probability that this will occur. Cross-pairing of the IL4Ra exodomain with the
wild type IL2Ry may also occur in certain aspects, but in this is acceptable because a Th1 signal
will be transmitted (FIG. 3).
            In some embodiments of the invention, there is produced a bicistronic construct and
stable producer line that enables CTL to sustain Th1 activity signal even when exposed to IL4 or
IL13 that normally induce a Th2 switch.
                                                  32

    WO 2012/138858                                                          PCT/US2012/032322
             One can assess the ex vivo transduction efficiency and function of gene-modified
multiTAA-CTL cultured in the presence of IL13 and IL4.             This formal in vitro comparison
allows determination whether each fusion protein is expressed functionally in multiTAA-CTLs,
whether transgene expression persists, and whether such expression alters the phenotype of the
transduced cells, or adversely affects their anti-tumor activity.
             Exemplary methods are as follows: multiTAA-CTLs are generated as described
above, for example,and transduced with construct #3, for example. One can measure expansion
of non-transduced and transduced cells. CTL that have been singly transduced with either
construct #1 or #2 may be used as controls. CTLs are cultured in the presence of IL2, IL4 and
IL13. One can measure changes in cell phenotype, numbers and viability using FACs and trypan
blue exclusion, and changes in cell signaling using a Multi-pathway signaling kit. In addition, the
anti-tumor activity is compared using autologous TAA-expressing APCs, HLA-matched
pancreatic cell lines, and autologous tumor cells as targets in the presence of IL2, IL13 and IL4
in a short (4hr Cr5 1 , assay) and long-term (4 day co-culture) study.
             In specific aspects of the invention, one detects functional levels of both fusion
proteins and that culture of nontransduced CTLs or CTLs transduced with construct #1 with any
cytokine other than IL2 produces a negative effect on CTL function, proliferation and survival.
In a specific embodiment, CTLs transduced with construct #2 proliferate and maintain their
function in the presence of IL4, because this exemplary chimeric construct can dimerize with
wildtype IL2Ry. Finally, CTL transduced with construct #3 transmit a Th1 signal, proliferate,
survive and function in the presence of all three cytokines (FIG. 3), in specific embodiments of
the invention. A summary table of exemplary results is shown in Table 3.
             Table 3: Predicted Results for Exemplary Constructs
                             +IL2                    +IL4                    +IL13
                             Growth/Function         Growth/Function         Growth/Function
Non-transduced               ++
#1 (IL13Ra/IL2Ry)            +++
                                                   33

    WO 2012/138858                                                      PCT/US2012/032322
#2 (IL4Ra/IL7Ra)          +++                      ++
#3 (fusion)               +++                      ++++                   ++++
             In embodiments of the invention, tumor-targeted multispecific CTL therapy is
developed for cancer, such as pancreatic cancer, and these cells are made resistant to an
important immune evasion strategy used by the tumor.         One can produce and infuse gene
modified multiTAA-CTL in a clinical study to evaluate their safety and anti-tumor efficacy in
individuals with pancreatic cancer.
                                          EXAMPLE 2
  GENETIC MODIFICATION OF CAR-MODIFIED T CELLS WITH IL4Ra/IL7Ra AS
                                           EXAMPLE
             Tumors have evolved complex mechanisms to subvert the cellular immune response
including expression of FasL or PD-Li that induce anergy or apoptosis in effector T cells.
Included in the microenvironment are recruitment of regulatory T cells and secretion of TGF
and other immunosuppressive cytokines that inhibit T cell proliferation.    There is constitutive
expression of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) by tumors and regulatory dendritic cells,
which depletes tryptophan, resulting in T cell anergy and downregulation or modulation of MHC
and co-stimulatory molecules. T cells can be suppress by a diverse of factor present in the tumor
microenvironment, including at least IL1O, TGF-,       IL13, and IL-4.  One can overcome this
problem if a cytokine receptor exo-domain is used with a nonnative endodomain to arm the T
cells to withstand the inhibitory tumor microenvironment.
             In embodiments of the invention there is protection of multiTAA-CTLs from the
inhibitory effects of Th2 cytokines by forced expression of an artificial IL4/IL7 cytokine
receptor.    An exemplary transgenic construct may be produced, such as one in FIG. 4, that
illustrates a fusion of IL4RaJIL7Ra and includes a reporter gene, such as mOrange, although in
some cases the construct lacks a reporter gene. FIG. 5 demonstrates stable expression of the
transgenic receptor as detected by flow cytometry to detect expression of the IL4R and co
expression of mOrange on transduced cells.        FIG. 6 shows that the transgenic receptor is
functional as assessed by the detection of phosphorylated STAT5 (pSTAT5) in transgenic cells
                                                34

    WO 2012/138858                                                        PCT/US2012/032322
upon exposure to the IL4 cytokine, which under wildtype conditions would induce pSTAT6.
FIG. 7 demonstrates that transgenic expression of the chimeric 4/7R does not adversely affect
CTL function, as assessed using a chromium release assay to detect specific lysis of target cells,
and FIG. 8 shows that transgenic T cells expressing 4/7R proliferate in vitro in the presence of
either IL2 (standard growth factor used to induce T cell proliferation) or IL-4 while CTLs
generated from the same donors but not expressing the 4/7R are able to proliferate only in the
presence of the growth factor IL2. FIG. 9 shows that 4/7R-expressing CTL can deplete IL4 from
supernatant collected from a tumor line, indicating that indeed the transgenic receptor can utilize
tumor-produced cytokine and may potentially starve the tumor of an erstwhile growth factor.
FIG. 10 shows that 4/7R-expressing CTL are resistant to other immunosuppressive cytokines as
assessed by cell counted after exposure to the indicated cytokine conditions; CTL specificity and
function were maintained as assessed by ELIspot.
             Changing the signaling of an immunosuppressive cytokine into a T cell growth factor
is illustrated (FIG. 11).      FIG. 12-14 demonstrate that 4/7R CTLs control tumor growth in a
xenograft mouse model where SCID mice were engrafted with an IL4-producing tumor co
expressing FFLuc to allow in vivo imaging. Subsequently animals were treated with non
transduced or 4/7R-modified CTLs. Animals treated with 4/7R CTLs had significantly smaller
tumors that control groups which resulted in an increase in overall survival. FIG. 15 addresses
that in certain embodiments one can modify patient-derived CAR-PSCA modified T cells to co
express 4/7R, for example. FIG. 16 shows that CAR-PSCA T cells modified to co-express 4/7R
retain their ability to kill tumor targets.
             This example shows that T cells can be modified to co-express different transgenes.
T cells were conferred with antigen specificity via genetic modification with a chimeric antigen
receptor targeting the exemplary tumor antigen PSCA. Subsequently the same cells were
modified to co-express the 4/7R. Modification with 4/7R did not adversely affect to ability of
the T cells to recognize tumor cells.
                                            REFERENCES
             Alters SE, Gadea JR, Philip R. Immunotherapy of cancer. Generation of CEA
specific CTL using CEA peptide pulsed dendritic cells. Adv.Exp.Med.Biol. 1997;417:519-524.
                                                35

    WO 2012/138858                                                        PCT/US2012/032322
             Bollard CM, Aguilar L, Straathof KC et al. Cytotoxic T lymphocyte therapy for
Epstein-Barr virus+ Hodgkin's disease. J.Exp.Med. 2004;200:1623-1633.
             Bollard CM, Gottschalk S, Leen AM et al. Complete responses of relapsed
lymphoma following genetic modification of tumor-antigen presenting cells and T-Iymphocyte
transfer. Blood 2007;110:2838-2845.
             Cappello P, Tomaino B, Chiarle R et al. An integrated humoral and cellular response
is elicited in pancreatic cancer by alpha-enolase, a novel pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma
associated antigen. Int J Cancer 2009;125:639-648.
             Formentini A, Prokopchuk 0, Strater J et al. Interleukin-13 exerts autocrine growth
promoting effects on human pancreatic cancer, and its expression correlates with a propensity for
lymph node metastases. Int.J.Colorectal Dis. 2009;24:57-67.
             Foster AE, Leen AM, Lee T et al. Autologous designer antigen-presenting cells by
gene modification of T lymphocyte blasts with IL-7 and IL-12. J Immunother 2007;30:506-516.
             Gerdemann U, Christin AS, Vera JF et al. Nucleofection of DCs to generate
Multivirus- specific  T    cells for prevention    or treatment     of  viral infections   in the
immunocompromised host. Mol.Ther. 2009; 17:1616-1625.
             Han L, Pansare V, AI-Abbadi M, Husain M, Feng J. Combination of MUC5ac and
WT-1 immunohistochemistry is useful in distinguishing pancreatic ductal carcinoma from
ovarian serous carcinoma in effusion cytology. Diagn.Cytopathol. 2009
             Heslop HE, Ng CYC, Li C et al. Long-term restoration of immunity against Epstein
Barr virus infection by adoptive transfer of gene-modified virus-specific T lymphocytes. Nature
Medicine 1996;2:551-555.
             Heslop HE, Siobod KS, Pule MA et al. Long term outcome of EBV specific T-cell
infusions to prevent or treat EBV-related Iymphoproliferative disease in transplant recipients.
Blood 2009
             Kaka AS, Foster AE, Weiss HL, Rooney CM, Leen AM. Using dendritic cell
maturation and IL- 12 producing capacity as markers of function: a cautionary tale. J Immunother
2008;31 :359-369.
                                                36

    WO 2012/138858                                                      PCT/US2012/032322
             Kaka AS, Shaffer DR, Hartmeier R et al. Genetic modification of T cells with IL-21
enhances antigen presentation and generation of central memory tumor-specific cytotoxic T
lymphocytes. J Immunother 2009;32:726-736.
             Kawaoka T, Oka M, Takashima M et al. Adoptive immunotherapy for pancreatic
cancer: cytotoxic T lymphocytes stimulated by the MUCI-expressing human pancreatic cancer
cell line YPK-1. Oncol.Rep. 2008;20: 155-163.
             Kondo H, Hazama S, Kawaoka T et al. Adoptive immunotherapy for pancreatic
cancer using MUCI peptide-pulsed dendritic cells and activated T lymphocytes. Anticancer Res.
2008;28:379-387.
             Kommann M, Kleeff J, Debinski W, Korc M. Pancreatic cancer cells express
interleukin-13 and -4 receptors, and their growth is inhibited by Pseudomonas exotoxin coupled
to interleukin-13 and -4. Anticancer Res. 1999;19:125-131.
             Leen AM, Christin A, Myers GD et al. Cytotoxic T lymphocyte therapy with donor T
cells prevents and treats adenovirus and Epstein-Barr virus infections after haploidentical and
matched unrelated stem cell transplant. Blood 2009
             Leen AM, Myers GD, Sili U et al. Monoculture-derived T lymphocytes specific for
multiple viruses expand and produce clinically relevant effects in immunocompromised
individuals. Nat.Med. 2006;12:1160-1166.
             Leen AM, Rooney CM, Foster AE. Improving T cell therapy for cancer.
Annu.Rev.lmmunol. 2007;25:243265.
             Lepisto AJ, Moser AJ, Zeh H et al. A phase 1/11 study of a MUCI peptide pulsed
autologous dendritic cell vaccine as adjuvant therapy in patients with resected pancreatic and
biliary tumors. Cancer Ther. 2008;6:955-964.
             Li M, Bharadwaj U, Zhang R et al. Mesothelin is a malignant factor and therapeutic
vaccine target for pancreatic cancer. Mol.Cancer Ther. 2008;7:286-296.
             Louis CU, Straathof K, Bollard CM et al. Enhancing the in vivo expansion of
adoptively transferred EBVspecific CTL with Iymphodepleting CD45 monoclonal antibodies in
NPC patients. Blood 2009; 113:24422450.
                                               37

    WO 2012/138858                                                         PCT/US2012/032322
             Morgan RA, Dudley ME, Wunderlich JR et al. Cancer regression in patients after
transfer of genetically engineered lymphocytes. Science 2006;314:126-129.
             Nakazawa Y, Huye LE, Dotti G et al. Optimization of the PiggyBac Transposon
System for the Sustained Genetic Modification of Human T Lymphocytes. J Immunother 2009
             Plate   JM.    Current   immunotherapeutic       strategies  in  pancreatic   cancer.
Surg.Oncol.Clin.N.Am. 2007;16:91943, xi.
             Prokopchuk 0, Liu Y, Henne-Bruns D, Kornmann M. Interleukin-4 enhances
proliferation of human pancreatic cancer cells: evidence for autocrine and paracrine actions.
Br.J.Cancer 2005;92:921-928.
             Quintarelli C, Vera JF, Savoldo Bet al. Co-expression of cytokine and suicide genes
to enhance the activity and safety of tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Blood
2007; 110:2793-2802.
             Rong Y, Jin D, Wu W et al. Induction of protective and therapeutic anti-pancreatic
cancer immunity using a reconstructed MUCI DNA vaccine. BMC.Cancer 2009;9:191.
             Rooney CM, Smith CA, Ng C et al. Use of gene-modified virus-specific T
lymphocytes to control EpsteinBarr virus-related Iymphoproliferation. Lancet 1995;345:9-13.
             Savoldo B, Rooney CM, Di SA et al. Epstein Barr virus specific cytotoxic T
lymphocytes expressing the anti-CD30zeta artificial chimeric T-cell receptor for immunotherapy
of Hodgkin disease. Blood 2007; 110:2620-2630.
             Seicean A, Popa D, Mocan T, Cristea V, Neagoe I. Th1 and Th2 profiles in patients
with pancreatic cancer compared with chronic pancreatitis. Pancreas 2009;38:594-595.
             Seruga B, Zhang H, Bernstein LJ, Tannock IF. Cytokines and their relationship to the
symptoms and outcome of cancer. Nat.Rev.Cancer 2008;8:887-899.
             Straathof KC, Bollard CM, Popat U et al. Treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma
with Epstein-Barr virus-specific T lymphocytes. Blood 2005; 105:1898-1904.
             Sweeney AD, Wu MF, Hilsenbeck SG, Brunicardi FC, Fisher WE. Value of
pancreatic resection for cancer metastatic to the pancreas. J.Surg.Res. 2009;156:189-198.
                                                 38

    WO 2012/138858                                                        PCT/US2012/032322
             Tanis PJ, van der Gaag NA, Busch OR, van Gulik TM, Gouma DJ. Systematic
review of pancreatic surgery for metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Br.J.Surg. 2009;96:579-592.
             Tassi E, Gavazzi F, Albarello L et al. Carcinoembryonic antigen-specific but not
antiviral CD4+ T cell immunity is impaired in pancreatic carcinoma patients. J.1mmunol.
2008;181 :6595-6603.
             Vera J, Savoldo B, Vigouroux S et al. T lymphocytes redirected against the kappa
light chain of human immunoglobulin efficiently kill mature B lymphocyte-derived malignant
cells. Blood 2006;108:3890-3897.
             Vera JF, Brenner U, Gerdemann U et al. Accelerated production of antigen-specific
T-cells for pre-clinical and clinical applications using Gas-permeable Rapid Expansion
cultureware (G-Rex). J Immunother 2009;ln press:
             Vera JF, Hoyos V, Savoldo B et al. Genetic manipulation of tumor-specific cytotoxic
T lymphocytes to restore responsiveness to IL-7. Mol.Ther. 2009; 17:880-888.
             Voidonikolas G, Gingras MC, Hodges S et al. Developing a tissue resource to
characterize the genome of pancreatic cancer. World J.Surg. 2009;33:723-731.
             Wong HH, Lemoine NR. Pancreatic cancer: molecular pathogenesis and new
therapeutic targets. Nat.Rev.Gastroenterol.Hepatol. 2009;6:412-422.
             [0238]    Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in
detail, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions and alterations can be made
herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended
claims.    Moreover, the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the
particular embodiments of the process, machine, manufacture, composition of matter, means,
methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily
appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention, processes, machines, manufacture,
compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps, presently existing or later to be developed that
perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the
corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention.
                                                39

  WO 2012/138858                                                      PCT/US2012/032322
Accordingly, the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes,
machines, manufacture, compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps.
                                             40

   WO 2012/138858                                                          PCT/US2012/032322
                                              CLAIMS
            What is claimed is:
           1.  An immune system cell comprising a chimeric cytokine receptor
               comprising a cytokine-binding exodomain and a signal transducing
               endodomain, wherein the exodomain is from selected from the
               group consisting of IL1O exodomain, IL4 exodomain, IL13
               exodomainTGFbeta exodomain, IL6 exodomain, IL8 exodomain,
               and a combination thereof, and wherein the endodomain is selected
               from the group consisting of IL2 endodomain, IL7 endodomain,
               ILl5 endodomain, and a combination thereof.
          2.   The cell of claim 1, wherein the cell is selected from the group
               consisting of primary T cell, T lymphocyte, and NK cell.
          3.   The cell of claim 2, wherein the T lymphocyte is a naturally
               occurring tumor antigen-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte.
          4.   The cell of claim 1, wherein the cell targets a tumor associated
               antigen selected from the group consisting of CEA, MUC1,
               MUC5AC, MUC6, telomerase, PRAME, MAGEA, SSX2/4, NY
               ESO, and Survivin.
          5.   A method of producing a cell of claim 1, comprising the steps of:
       providing or obtaining the immune cell;
       transfecting the cell with an expression vector that encodes the chimeric
receptor.
          6.   The method of claim 5, wherein the immune cell is from an
               individual in need of cancer treatment.
          7.   The method of claim 5, wherein the vector is a retroviral vector,
               lentiviral vector, or transposon plasmid.
                                                 41

WO 2012/138858                                                            PCT/US2012/032322
      8.   The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of providing a
           plurality of the cells to the individual.
      9.   The method of claim 5, wherein the individual has cancer that is
           selected from the group consisting of pancreatic, lung, breast,
           brain, prostate, skin, ovarian, testicular, gall bladder, spleen,
           stomach, colon, rectal, esophageal, cervical, bladder, endometrial,
           kidney, blood, thyroid, and gastric.
     10.   A method of treating cancer in an individual, comprising the steps
           of delivering to the individual a therapeutically effective amount of
           cells of claim 1.
     11.   The method of claim 10, wherein the cell is autologous or
           allogeneic to the individual.
     12.   The method of claim 10, wherein the individual has cancer that is
           selected from the group consisting of pancreatic, lung, breast,
           brain, prostate, skin, ovarian, testicular, gall bladder, spleen,
           stomach, colon, rectal, esophageal, cervical, bladder, endometrial,
           kidney, blood, thyroid, and gastric.
     13.   The method of claim 10, wherein the cell is delivered to the
           individual by intravenous delivery.
                                               42

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
