ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
     The utility model provides a bracket for supporting a rock-fall protecting network.
The rock-fall protecting network comprises a protecting mesh, plural ground piles,
and bottom steel cables, middle steel cables and top steel cables that are transversely
penetrated through the protecting mesh, and the ground piles are longitudinally
penetrated through the protecting mesh and are fixed on a foundation. The rock-fall
protecting network also comprises brackets in a number equal to the number of the
ground piles; each one of the brackets is triangular; each one of the ground piles is
provided with a bracket on the back face; and one of support rods of each one of the
brackets is pressed against the back face of each corresponding one of the ground
piles. Due to the stability of the triangular form, the brackets have a relatively good
support effect on the ground piles, so that when the protecting mesh is impacted by
huge stones, the ground piles can still remain stable. Moreover, the bracket is small in
size and therefore occupies a small installation space, so that the land can be fully
utilized.
                                    2
                    6
                     63
                                            61

                 BRACKET FOR SUPPORTING ROCK-FALL NETWORK
BACKGROUND OF THE UTILITY MODEL
[0001]     Technical Field
    [0002]      The utility model relates to a bracket for supporting a rock-fall protecting
network.
[0003]     Description of Related Art
    [0004]      In order to prevent rocks from falling off hillsides or falling on the ground
and causing injuries to people or damage to the pavement, the prior art adopts a solution of
fastening a rock-fall protecting network on a hillside using ropes, and the ropes are
respectively positioned at the upper part and two ends of the rock-fall protecting network.
This solution has two defects. First, when a huge rock is falling down from a rock slope,
the upper ropes are easily impacted and will beak if the ropes cannot bear the impacting
force, thus causing danger. Second, limited by the scope of a construction site, the upper
ropes are connected to the hillside at different positions due to the relations among
stressed points. Therefore, it is possible to exceed the scope of the construction site,
affecting construction.
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE UTILITY MODEL
    [0005]      The purpose of the utility model is to provide a bracket for supporting a
rock-fall protecting network, which occupies a small space for installation, and achieves a
good support effect.
    [0006]      In order to fulfill the above mentioned purpose, the utility model adopts the
following technical solution: a bracket for supporting a rock-fall protecting network is
provided. The rock-fall protecting network comprises a protecting mesh, plural ground
piles, and bottom steel cables, middle steel cables and top steel cables that are transversely
                                               1

penetrated through the protecting mesh, and the ground piles are longitudinally penetrated
through the protecting mesh and are fixed on a foundation. The rock-fall protecting
network also comprises brackets in a number equal to the number of the ground piles;
each one of the brackets is triangular; each one of the ground piles is provided with one
bracket on the back face; and one of support rods of each one of the brackets is pressed
against the back face of each corresponding one of the ground piles.
    [0007]       Further, each one of the brackets is a triangular frame formed by enclosing
three support rods, wherein one of the support rods of each one of the brackets is pressed
against each corresponding one of the ground piles, and one of the support rods is pressed
against the ground.
    [0008]       Each one of the support rods is in an elastic connection with the other two
support rods.
    [0009]       The utility model has the following beneficial technical effects. The
protecting network is fixed on the ground through longitudinally penetrated ground piles.
The two ends of the protecting network can be fixed at the foot of the hill nearby with
steel cables. Each one of the ground piles is provided with a triangular bracket on the back
face. Due to the stability of the triangular form, the bracket has a good support effect on
the ground pile, so when the protecting network is impacted by a huge rock, the ground
piles can still remain stable. Moreover, the bracket has a small size and occupies a small
space for installation, and the land can be fully utilized. Each one of the support rods is in
an elastic connection with the other two support rods, which means that the support rods
are connected in a non-welding way and can be detached, for example a bolted connection.
Flexible connection may increase flexibility, reduces the materials used, and conforms to
the economical principle.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
                                               2

     [0010]     Figure 1 is a front view of the utility model;
     [0011]     Figure 2 is a left view of the utility model.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE UTILITY MODEL
     [0012]     To make those skilled in this field better understand the solution of the
utility model, the utility model is described in further detail with reference to the attached
drawings and embodiments.
     [0013]     As shown in FIG.1-2, a bracket for supporting a rock-fall protecting
network is provided. The rock-fall protecting network includes a protecting mesh 1, plural
ground piles 2, and bottom steel cables 3, middle steel cables 4 and top steel cables 5 that
are transversely penetrated through the protecting mesh, and the ground piles 2 are
longitudinally penetrated through the protecting mesh and are fixed on a foundation. The
rock-fall protecting network also includes brackets 6 in a number equal to the number of
the ground piles; each one of the brackets 6 is triangular; each one of the ground piles 2 is
provided with one bracket 6 on the back face; and one support rod 61 of each one of the
brackets is pressed against the back face of each corresponding one of the ground piles.
     [0014]     Each one of the brackets is a triangular frame formed by enclosing three
support rods 61, 62, 63, wherein one of the support rods of each one of the brackets is
pressed against each corresponding one of the ground piles, and one support rod 62 is
pressed against the ground.
     [0015]     The brackets 6 are made of a metal material.
     [0016]     Each one of the support rods forming each one of the brackets 6 is in an
elastic connection with the other two support rods, which means that the support rods are
connected in a non-welding way and can be detached, for example a bolted connection.
Flexible connection may increase flexibility, reduces the materials used, and conforms to
the economical principle.
                                                3

     [0017]     The sizes of the brackets 6 vary with the location and stress point
(calculated on the basis of engineering science), but the structure is fixed as a triangular
bracket shape. The connection between the brackets and the hillside may be technically
reinforced by traditional hammering, grouting or a clip fastening method. The connection
between the triangular brackets and the rock-fall protecting network may be implemented
with ropes, steel cables or other technical connections. Other technologies are all similar
to the technology of the structure of the combination between the steel cable and the
brake.
      [0018]    The utility model is described with embodiments. Those ordinarily skilled
in this field know that many modifications and changes can be made on the basis of the
utility model, which all shall fall within the protective scope of the Claims.
                                                4

What is claimed is:
    1. A bracket for supporting a rock-fall protecting network, the rock-fall protecting
network comprising a protecting mesh, plural ground piles, and bottom steel cables,
middle steel cables and top steel cables that are transversely penetrated through the
protecting mesh, and the ground piles being longitudinally penetrated through the
protecting mesh and fixedly on a foundation, characterized in that the rock-fall
protecting network also comprises brackets in a number equal to the number of the
ground piles; each one of the brackets is triangular; each one of the ground piles is
provided with one bracket on the back face; and one of support rods of each one of
the brackets is pressed against the back face of each corresponding one of the ground
piles.
    2. The bracket for supporting a rock-fall protecting network according to claim 1,
characterized in that each one of the brackets is a triangular frame formed by
enclosing three support rods, wherein one of the support rods of each one of the
brackets is pressed against each corresponding one of the ground piles, and one of the
support rods is pressed against the ground.
    3. The bracket for supporting a rock-fall protecting network according to claim 2,
characterized in that each one of the support rods is in an elastic connection with the
other two support rods.
                                            1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
