    METHOD AND APPARATUS TO FACILITATE TRANSMISSION OF AN
                              ENCRYPTED ROLLING CODE
                                    Abstract of the Disclosure
An encrypted rolling code (11), a plurality of differing data bit order patterns (13), and a
plurality of differing data inversion pattems 14) are provided. One then selects (15) a
particular one of each of these patterns and uses those selected patterns as transmission
characteristics when transmitting (16) at least part of the encrypted rolling code.

               METHOD AND APPARATUS TO FACILITATE TRANSMISSION OF
                                  AN ENCRYPTED ROLLING CODE
                                              Technical Field
[0001]        This invention relates generally to encrypted rolling codes and more particularly to the
transmission of encrypted rolling code information.
[0001a]       This present application has been divided out of Australian patent application
<removed-apn> (AU <removed-apn>). AU <removed-apn>was divided out of Australian patent application
2014210605 (AU 2014210605). AU 2014210605 was divided out of Australian patent application
2007203558 (AU 2007203558). In the description in this specification reference may be made to
subject matter which is not within the scope of the appended claims. That subject matter should be
readily identifiable by a person skilled in the art and may assist in putting into practice the invention
as defined in the presently appended claims.
[0001b]       The full disclosure of AU 2007203558 Al is incorporated herein by reference.
Background
[0002]        Rolling codes are known in the art. Rolling codes are often used, for example, in
conjunction with movable barrier operators of various kinds (with movable barrier operators of
various kinds also being known in the art and including operators that effect the selective control and
movement of single panel and segmented garage doors, pivoting, rolling, and swinging gates, guard
arms, rolling shutters, and various other movable barriers). In such an application setting, a wireless
transmitter can send a code to a corresponding movable barrier operator to cause the latter to effect a
desired movement or other action with respect to, for example, a corresponding movable barrier.
[0003]        When using rolling codes, the code transmitted by the wireless transmitter will change
(often with each transmission) in accordance with a predetermined plan or algorithm that is also
known to the movable barrier operator. Such an approach can foil the use of an intercepted code by an
unauthorized party because that intercepted code will not typically again, at least in the near term, be
honored by that movable barrier operator should the unauthorized party attempt to themselves
transmit the code. Without knowledge of the underlying scheme by which a next code is selected, the
unauthorized party who gains access to a presently used code will still remain unable to leverage that
knowledge in support of effecting unauthorized control over the movable barrier operator.

[0004]         There may be instances, however, when additional security may be desired or
appropriate. For example, a given rolling code instantiation may be open to brute force attacks or
other weaknesses due to local and/or otherwise unique circumstances.
Summary
[0004a]        The present invention provides a method comprising: preparing for transmission of data
between a movable barrier operator and a peripheral device by: converting first binary data
comprising information relating to the movable barrier operator into ternary data using a first
conversion method; converting the ternary data to a binary format to provide binary information
representative of the information relating to the movable barrier operator, the converting done in a
way not mirroring the first conversion method; transmitting the binary information between the
movable barrier operator and the peripheral device.
[0004b]        In an embodiment, the converting the ternary data to the binary format comprises
mapping each trit of the ternary data to a corresponding pair of binary bits.
[0004c]        In an embodiment, transmitting the binary information further comprises transmitting
pairs of binary bits, wherein individual ones of the pairs of binary bits represents one of: a particular
ternary value; an illegal value.
[0004d]        In an embodiment, the illegal value serves a synchronization function.
[0004e]        In an embodiment, a first particular ternary value for the particular ternary value
corresponds to bearer content having a first size; a second particular ternary value for the particular
ternary value corresponds to bearer content having a second size, which second size is different than
the first size: a third particular ternary value for the particular ternary value corresponds to updating a
rolling code as is employed by the movable barrier operator.
[0004f]        In an embodiment, the first binary data comprises fixed information corresponding to the
movable barrier operator.
[0004g]        In an embodiment, the fixed information comprises identifying information.
[0004h]        In an embodiment, the first binary data further comprises non-fixed information
corresponding to the movable barrier operator.
[0004i1]       In an embodiment, the method further comprises providing the first binary data,
including combining at least some of first binary bits with rolling code bits.

[0004j]       The present invention further provides a method comprising: converting first binary data
comprising information relating to a movable barrier operator into ternary data using a first
conversion method; converting the ternary data to a binary format to provide binary information
representative of the information relating to the movable barrier operator, the converting done in a
way not mirroring the first conversion method; transmitting the binary information between the
movable barrier operator and a peripheral device; providing the first binary data, including combining
at least some of first binary bits with rolling code bits; wherein combining at least some of the first
binary bits with rolling code bits further comprises: exclusive ORing the first binary bits with the
rolling code bits to provide encrypted bits; concatenating the encrypted bits with the rolling code bits
to provide resultant bits; reverse ordering the resultant bits to provide reverse ordered bits; and
wherein converting the first binary data into the ternary data further comprises: converting the reverse
ordered bits into the ternary data.
[0004k]       In an embodiment, the method further comprises: interleaving the ternary data with other
ternary data; wherein converting the ternary data to a binary format further comprises converting the
interleaved ternary data to the binary format to provide the binary information.
[00041]       In an embodiment, interleaving the ternary data with other ternary data further
comprises: providing additional binary bits comprising information corresponding to the movable
barrier operator; converting the additional binary bits comprising information corresponding to the
movable barrier operator into intermediate ternary data; modifying the intermediate ternary data using
rolling code information to provide the other ternary data.
[0004m]       In an embodiment, modifying the intermediate ternary data using rolling code
information further comprises: modifying the intermediate ternary data using the ternary data.
[0004n]       In an embodiment, the transmitting the binary information comprises transmitting the
binary information to at least one of: a movable barrier operator, an alarm system, or a sensor.
[00040]       The present invention further provides an apparatus comprising at least one of a movable
barrier operator and a device that communicates with a movable barrier operator, the apparatus
comprising: a memory device configured to store first binary data comprising information relating to
a movable barrier operator; a processing device in operable communication with the memory device
and configured to preparing for transmission of data between the movable barrier operator and the
device that communicates with the movable barrier operator by converting convert the first binary
data into ternary data using a first conversion method and to convert converting the ternary data to a
binary-formatted version in a way not mirroring the first conversion method; a transmitter operably

coupled to the processing device and the memory device and configured to externally transmit the
binary-formatted version of the ternary data to one of the movable barrier operator and the device that
communicates with the movable barrier operator.
[0 0 0 4 p]   In an embodiment, the processing device is further configured to convert the ternary data
to the binary-formatted version by mapping each trit of the ternary data to a corresponding pair of
binary bits.
[0004q]       In an embodiment, the first binary data comprises fixed identifying information
corresponding to the movable barrier operator, non-fixed information corresponding to the movable
barrier operator, or both.
[0004r]       In an embodiment, the processing device is further configured to create the first binary
data in part by combining at least some of first binary bits with rolling code bits.
[0004s]       The present invention further provides an apparatus comprising at least one of a movable
barrier operator and a device that communicates with a movable barrier operator, the apparatus
comprising: a memory device configured to store first binary data comprising information relating to
a movable barrier operator; a processing device in operable communication with the memory device
and configured to convert the first binary data into ternary data using a first conversion method and to
convert the ternary data to a binary-formatted version in a way not mirroring the first conversion
method; a transmitter operably coupled to the processing device and the memory device and
configured to externally transmit the binary-formatted version of the ternary data to one of the
movable barrier operator and the device that communicates with the movable barrier operator;
wherein the processing device is further configured to combine at least some of the first binary bits
with rolling code bits by: exclusive ORing the first binary bits with the rolling code bits to provide
encrypted bits; concatenating the encrypted bits with the rolling code bits to provide resultant bits;
reverse ordering the resultant bits to provide reverse ordered bits; and wherein the processing device
is further configured to convert the first binary data into the ternary data by converting the reverse
ordered bits into the ternary data.
[0004t]       In an embodiment, the processing device is further configured to interleave the ternary
data with other ternary data; and the processing device is further configured to convert the ternary
data to the binary format by converting the interleaved ternary data to the binary-formatted version.
[0004u]       The present invention still further provides a wireless transmitter device for sending a
radio frequency signal to a garage door operator having a wireless receiver such that in response to
receiving the radio frequency signal the garage door operator actuates an electric motor to open or

close a movable barrier, wherein the garage door operator actuates the electric motor in response to
receiving a control message comprising encrypted binary data via the radio frequency signal, the
control message configured to be decrypted by the garage door operator by converting the encrypted
binary data into ternary data and then converting the ternary data into second binary data in a way not
reversing the conversion of the encrypted binary data into the ternary data, the wireless transmitter
device comprising: a processing device; a memory device coupled to the processing device and
configured to store data transmitted as part of the radio frequency signal; a transmitter operably
coupled to the processor device and the memory device; an antenna in combination with the
transmitter and configured to send the radio frequency signal conveying the control message.

Brief Description of the Drawings
[0005]         The above needs are at last partially met through provision of the method and apparatus
to facilitate transmission of an encrypted rolling code described in the following detailed description,
particularly when studied in conjunction with the drawings, wherein:
[0006]         FIG. 1 comprises a flow diagram as configured in accordance with various embodiments
of the invention;
[0007]         FIG. 2 comprises a flow diagram as configured in accordance with various embodiments
of the invention;
[0008]         FIG. 3 comprises a depiction of prior art ternary encoding;
[0009]         FIG. 4 comprises a flow diagram as configured in accordance with various embodiments
of the invention;
[00010]        FIG. 5 comprises a flow diagram as configured in accordance with various embodiments
of the invention;
[00011]        FIG. 6 comprises a mapping table as configured in accordance with various embodiments
of the invention;
[00011a]       FIG. 7 comprises a schematic view of bit processing and parsing in accordance with
various embodiments of the invention;
[00011b]       FIG. 8 comprises a schematic joint message diagram as configured in accordance with
various embodiments of the invention:

 [0012]       FIG. 9 comprises a schematic view of bit selection and parsing as configured in
 accordance with various embodiments of the invention;
 [0013]       FIG. 10 comprises an illustrative exarnple of a lookup table as configured in
 accordance with various embodiments of the invention;
 [00141       FIG. II comprises a schematic view of two joiht messages as configured in
 accordance with various embodiments of the invention;
 [0015]      FIG. 12 comprises a schematic view of bit parsing as configured in accordance
 with various embodiments of the inVention;
 [0016]      FIG. 13 comprises a schematic view of a joint message as configured in
 accordance with various embodiments of the invention;
[0017]       FIG. 14 comprises an illustrative example of a lookup table as configured in
accordance with various embodiments of the invention;
[0018]       FIG. 15 comprises a schematic view of bit processing and parsing as configured in
accordance with various embodiments of the invention;
 [0019]      FIG. 16 comprises a schematic view of a joint message as configured in
accordance with various embodiments of the invention;
[0020]       FIG. 17 comprises an illustrative example of a lookup table as configured in
accordance with various embodiments of the invention; and
[0021]       FIG. 18 comprises a block diagram as configured in accordance with various
embodiments of the invention.
10022]       Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for
simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example, the
dimensions and/or relative positioning of some of the elements in the figures may be
exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of various
embodiments of the present invention. Also, common but well-understood elements that are
useful or necessary in a commercially feasible embodiment are often not depicted in order to
facilitate a less obstructed view of these various embodiments of the present invention. It

will also be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning
as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective
areas of inquiry and study except where specific gleanings have otherwise been set forth
herein.
                                Detailed Description
[0023]       Generally speaking, pursuant to these various embodiments, an encrypted rolling
code, a plurality of differing data bit order patterns, and a plurality of differing data inversion
patterns are provided. One selects a particular one of each of the bit order patterns and the
data inversion patterns to provide selected patterns and then uses those selected patterns as
transmission characteristics when transmitting at least part of the encrypted rolling code.
[0024]       By these teachings, for example, a wireless remote control transmitter can be
provided with data to be transmitted, where that data comprises, at least in part, at least
portions of an encrypted rolling code and where that data comports with a particular data bit
order pattern and a particular data inversion pattern as a function of a given portion of that
rolling code. That data can then be transmitted in combination with the given portion of the
encrypted rolling cpde wherein that given portion of the rolling code is not transmitted with
any of its bits reordered or inverted as a function of the given portion itself. Accordingly, a
receiver that receives the data can then properly recover the re-ordered/inverted portions of
the encrypted rolling code as a function of the given portion of the encrypted rolling code.
[0025]       By one approach, if desired, the aforementioned data can comprise ternary data
that is presented in a binary format. The use of ternary data can aid in facilitating compatible
interaction with at least some movable barrier operators while also achieving an encryption
effect at the same time as tending to ensure compatible use with binary peripheral platforms
and the like. By one approach, this can comprise mapping each trit of the temary data to a
corresponding pair of binary bits. A pair of binary bits can represent 4 discrete information
elements and by one approach, three of these discrete information elements can each
correspond to one of the three trit states/levels while the fourth discrete information element
(which otherwise comprises an illegal value) can serve a synchronization function.

 [0026]       If desired, in addition to the aforementioned encrypted rolling code, a fixed code
can also be included in the transmission. By one approach, for example, both the
aforementioned part of the encrypted rolling code and this fixed code can be transmitted
using the above-described selected patterns as transmission characteristics.
[0027}       These and other benefits may become clearer upon making a thorough review and
study of the following detailed description. Referring now to the drawings, and in particular
to FIG. 1, an illustrative process in this regard provides II an encrypted rolling code. As will
be illustrated in more detail below, this can comprise, if desired, providing an encrypted
rolling code as a plurality of bit pairs as correspond to a ternary data set.
[0028]       If desired, this process will also optionally accommodate providing 12 a fixed
code. This fixed code can vary with the needs, requirements, and/or opportunities of a given
application setting, but can, for example, comprise a value that is substantially unique to a
given transmitter and hence comprises a value that will serve to identify that given
transmitter. Such an approach can be useful, for example, when used in conjunction with a
remote control movable barrier operator transmitter.
[0029]       This process also provides 13 a plurality of differing data bit order patterns. By
one approach, for example, this can comprise data bit order patterns that each comprise a
pattern for exactly three bits. As will be shown below, this can be particularly beneficial
when used in conjunction with bit pairs that correlate to corresponding ternary data.
Similarly, this process provides 14 a plurality of different data inversion patterns. As before,
if desired, this can comprise providing patterns that each comprise a pattern for exactly three
bits. The number of patterns provided in either case can vary as desired. By one approach,
however, this can comprise providing at least nine different bit order patterns and nine
different data inversion patterns. Illustrative examples in this regard are provided further
herein.
[0030]       This process then provides for selecting 15 a particular one of each of the data bit
order patterns and the data inversion patterns to provide resultant corresponding selected
patterns. There are various ways by which such selections can be made. By one approach,
one may use a predetermined portion of the previously provided encrypted rolling code to
inform the making of these selections. For example (and as will be illustrated in more detail

herein), this can comprise using a predetermined four bit pairs of the encrypted rolling code
as a basis for selecting the particular data bit order pattern and the particular data inversion
pattern. As another example in this regard, in combination with the foregoing or in lieu
thereof, this can comprise using a first predetermined portion of the encrypted rolling code to
select a first particular data bit order pattern and a first data inversion pattern and using a
second predetermined portion of the encrypted rolling code (that is, for example, discrete
with respect to the first predetermined portion of the encrypted rolling code though this is not
a fundamental requirement) to select a second particular data bit order pattern and a second
data inversion pattern.
[0031]       This process then provides for transmitting 16 at least a part of the encrypted
rolling code itself (as well as at least a part of the above-described fixed code when present)
using the aforementioned selected patterns as transmission characteristics. By one approach
this can comprise making such a transmission using Manchester encoding as is known in the
art.
[0032]       So configured, these teachings are readily employed, for example, to facilitate the
transmission of a remote control message. This can comprise, for example, providing a fixed
message having at least a first part and a second part along with an encrypted rolling code
that has a first through a fourth part. The first part of the encrypted rolling code can then be
used to select a particular data bit order pattern and a data inversion pattern to use as a set of
first selected patterns while the second part of the encrypted rolling code can be used to select
a second set of patterns from amongst the available candidate patterns. One can then transmit
the first part of the fixed message and the third part of the encrypted rolling code using the
first selected patterns as transmission characteristics while transmitting the second part of the
fixed message and the fourth art of the encrypted rolling code using the second selected
patterns as transmission characteristics.
[0033]       By one approach, in this illustrative example this can also comprise transmitting
the first and second parts of the encrypted rolling code without using either the first or
selected patterns as transmission characteristics. So configured, the first and second parts of
the encrypted rolling code are then readily usable as recovery identifiers that can be used by a
receiver to recover the first and second parts of the fixed message and the third and fourth
parts of the encrypted rolling code.

[0034]      To illustrate further in this regard, these first and second parts of the encrypted
rolling code could each comprise four bit pairs as correspond to the aforementioned ternary
data. In such a case, two of the bit pairs as comprise the first part of the encrypted rolling
code can be used with a lookup table to correlate those two bit pairs to a corresponding data
bit order pattern. In a similar manner the remaining bit pairs can be used with a second
lookup table (which may, if desired, actually comprise a part of the first lookup table) to
correlate these bit pairs with a corresponding data inversion pattern, In a similar fashion, two
of the bit pairs of the four bit pairs as comprise the second part of the encrypted rolling code
can be used with that first lookup table to identify another data bit order pattern while the
remaining two bit pairs can be used with the second lookup table to identify a corresponding
data inversion pattern.
[0035]      In such a case, the aforementioned transmission can then comprise transmitting
the second part of the fixed message and the fourth part of the encrypted rolling code using
the second selected patterns as transmission characteristics only after not transmitting for at
least a predetermined period of time following transmission of the first part of the fixed
message and the third part of the encrypted rolling code using the first selected patterns as
transmission characteristics. The duration of this predetermined period of time can vary with
the needs and opportunities of a given application setting, but a duration of about 75
milliseconds will suffice for many expected purposes.
[0036)      In addition to facilitating a transmission of an encrypted rolling code and other
content that comprises, for example, information that is unique to a given transmitter (such as
a unique identifier for that transmitter), these teachings will further readily accommodate the
transmission of additional data that is not substantially unique to the transmitter. This can
comprise, for example, providing a data payload (such as a remote control instruction such as
OPEN, CLOSE, VACATION MODE, LIGHTS ON, LIGHTS OFF, and so forth) that is not
substantially unique to a given transmitter and then transmitting the first part of the fixed
message, the third part of the encrypted rolling code, and a first part of this data payload
while using the first selected patterns as transmission characteristics and transmitting the
second part of the fixed message, the fourth part of the encrypted rolling code, and a second
(remaining) portion of the data payload using the second selected patterns as transmission
characteristics. When the data payload comprises a relatively large quantity of data as

 compared to the fixed message and/or the encrypted rolling code, additional portions of the
 data payload as are not accommodated by the just-described process can then be
 supplementally transmitted using one of the already selected patterns (or other patterns, if
 desired) as transmission characteristics.
 [0037]       As another specific illustrative example in this regard, and referring now to FIG.
 2, a wireless remote control transmitter (such as a movable barrier operator remote control)
 can be configured and arranged to provide 21 data to be transmitted. This data can comprise,
 at least in part, at least portions of an encrypted rolling code. In any event, this data will
 comport with a particular data bit order pattern and a particular data inversion pattern as a
 function of a given portion of the rolling code. By one approach, if desired, this process can
 further comprise, at least in part, storing 22 this data in a memory prior to transmittingihe
data. The duration of such storage can vary considerably depending upon the specifics of a
given application setting.
[0038]        This wireless remote control transmitter can then transmit 23 this data in
combination with the given portion of the encrypted rolling code such that the given portion
of the encrypted rolling code is not transmitted with any of its bits reordered or inverted as a
function of the given portion of the encrypted rolling code. So configured, a receiverthat
receives this data can properly recover the modified portions of the encrypted rolling code as
a function, at least in part, of the unmodified given portion of the encrypted rolling code.
[0039]        As noted above, these teachings are readily applied in a context that makes use of
ternary data. It may therefore be helpful to first describe in more detail a typical ternary data
protocol as one finds often deployed in conjunction with many movable barrier operators.
Pursuant to one approach, pulses of similar amplitude have one of three different durations.
For example, and referring now to FIG. 3, a first pulse 31, having a shortest duration, can
represent the data element "0." A second pulse 32, having a medium length duration, can
represent the data element or state "1." And a third pulse 33, having a longest duration, can
represent the data element or state "2." Such a data mapping protocol serves well to effect a
base three-based data exchange. The present teachings can accommodate use and leveraging
of a ternary approach to effect relatively secure and compatible communications between a
movable barrier operators and corresponding peripheral components of choice. These

teachings are also compatible for use with an approach that eschews the specific ternary
approach just described.
[0040]       Referring now to FIG. 4, in general, these teachings will accommodate a process
40 that itself provides 41 ternary data as corresponds to a movable barrier operator and then
converts 42 that ternary data to a binary format to provide resultant binary information. This
binary information is then transmitted 43 from one platform to another. As will be shown
below, this ternary-to-binary conversion process serves, at least in part, as a kind of
encryption process which in turn aids in ensuring the authenticity and accuracy of the
information being transmitted.
[0041]       The ternary data itself can comprise, at least in part, bearer data. More
particularly, and referring momentarily to FIG. 5, pursuant to one (optional) approach,
provision of ternary data can comprise prior provision 51 of binary bits comprising
information that corresponds to the movable barrier operator (for example, information
sourced by, or intended for, a movable barrier operator). Such information can optionally
comprise, for example, movable barrier operator fixed information 52 such as identifying
information for a particular movable barrier operator, a particular peripheral component, or
the like. Such information can also optionally comprise (in addition to or in lieu of fixed
information 52) non-fixed information 53 such as the aforementioned data payload as again
corresponds to the movable barrier operator. This non-fixed information 53 can comprise
bearer data/information (such as, but not limited to, platform status information, commands,
acknowledgments, and so forth). As already noted, this non-fixed information 53 can also
comprise varying quantities of data if desired.
[0042]       These binary bits are then converted 54 into the aforementioned ternary data. This
could comprise, in an appropriate platform, a conversion of the binary data into ternary data
such as that described above with respect to FIG. 3. In general, such an approach need not be
used. Instead, the binary data can be converted into a binary-bit-based ternary format (with
an illustrative example being provided further below).
[0043]       By one approach, however, this does not comprise a simple reversal of the binary
to-temary process just described. Instead, the ternary-to-binary conversion step can comprise
mapping each trit of the ternary data to a corresponding pair of binary bits. To illustrate such

a map 61, and referring momentarily to FIG. 6, the ternary data element "0" (which
corresponds to the usual binary data element "0") maps to the binary pair "00." In similar
fashion, ternary "1" (which corresponds to usual binary "I1) maps to the binary pair "01" and
ternary "2" (which corresponds to usual binary "I1 ") maps to the binary pair "01."
[0044]       This leaves an otherwise unused binary pair "11." Pursuant to a preferred
approach, this otherwise illegal value can serve a synchronization function when facilitating
communications as between a movable barrier operator and one or more peripheral
components when using a binary format that otherwise has no synchronization mechanism
built into its format (for example, a stream of binary bits such as:
         011011111110100111011101101111111010011101110110111111101001110111
which format lacks a frame marker or other point of synchronization). To illustrate, a
synchronization signal/marker comprising this "I1 " binary pair can be used to indicate, for
example, the regular end and/or start of a frame or message as in the following example:
         110110111111011110111011110110111111101111110111111101101111111011111
where the bold font "11" regularly spaced binary pairs serve as frame markers (and which,
due to their synchronized regular spacing, are readily distinguishable from other "11" pairs as
may occur for whatever reason (illustratively depicted in the above example with italic font).
[0045]       Those skilled in the art will appreciate that this process of converting binary
information into ternary information, followed by conversion of that ternary information into
corresponding binary pairs, yields, in most cases, a different bit sequence (and even a
different number of bits) as compared to the initial binary information. This difference
serves, at least in part, as a non-key-based encryption technique and hence provides a way of
effecting the provision of an encrypted rolling code.
[0046]       Referring now to FIG. 7, a more detailed illustrative embodiment will be
presented. In this first illustrative example, the only substantive content to be associated and
transmitted with a 28 bit rolling code 71 comprises a 40 bit value that represents fixed
information 72. This fixed information 72 may serve, for example, to uniquely identify the
transmitter that will ultimately transmit this information as noted above.
[0047]        In this particular illustrative embodiment, the bits comprising the rolling code 71
are encrypted 73 by mirroring the bits and then translating those mirrored bits into teary

values as suggested above to provide corresponding bit pairs (in this example, this would
comprise 18 such bit pairs) to thereby provide a resultant encrypted rolling code 74. This
mirroring can be applied to specific groupings of bits in the rolling code creating mirrored
groups or can involve the entire value. In this illustrative example, the encrypted rolling code
74 is presented for further processing as four groups. In this example, these four groups
comprise a roll group E 74A comprised of four binary bit pairs, a roll group F 74B comprised
of five binary bit pairs, a roll group 0 74C comprised of four binary bit pairs, and a roll group
H 74D comprised of five binary bit pairs,
[0048]       The 40 bit fixed information 72 is subdivided in a similar manner albeit sans
encryption. This comprises, in this particular illustrative approach, forming four subgroups
comprising a fixed group A 75A, a fixed group B 75B, a fixed group C 75C, and a fixed
group D 75D, wherein each such group is comprised of 10 bits of the original 40 bit value.
[0049]       These variously partitioned data groups can then be used as shown in FIG. 8 to
effect a desired transmission. In this example, one or more joint messages 80 provide a
primary vehicle by which to communicate the desired information (which includes both the
encrypted rolling code and fixed information data as modified as a function of a given portion
of the encrypted rolling code along with a recovery identifier that represents that given
portion of the encrypted rolling code). This joint message 80 comprises, generally speaking, a
first 20 bit portion 81 and a second 30 bit portion 82.
[0050]       The first portion 81 comprises, in this embodiment, the following fields:
                 "0000" - these bits 81A serve to precharge the decoding process and
                 effectively establish an operational threshold;
                 "1111" - these bits 81B comprise two bit pairs that present the illegal state
                 "I " ("illegal" because this corresponds to a fourth unassigned state in the
                 ternary context of these communications) and serve here as a basis for
                 facilitating synchronization with a receiving platform;
                 "00" - this bit pair 81C identifies a type of payload being borne by the joint
                 message (in this embodiment, "00" corresponds to no payload other than the
                 fixed identifying information for the transmitter itself, "01" corresponds to a

                 supplemental data payload, and "10" corresponds to a supplemental data-only
                  payload - further explanation regarding these payload types appears further
                  below);
                 "Xx" - this bit pair 8 ID presents a frame identifier that can be used by a
                 receiver to determine whether all required joint messages 80 have been
                 received and which can also be used to facilitate proper reconstruction of the
                 transmitted data;
                 "B3, B2, BI, BO"- these two bit pairs 81E comprise an inversion pattern
                 recovery identifier and are selected from the bits that comprise the encrypted
                 rolling code 74 described above;
                 "B7, B6, B5, B4" - these two bit pairs SIF comprise a bit order pattern
                 recovery identifier and are also selected from the bits that comprise the
                 encrypted rolling code 74 described above.
[0051]      There are various ways by which these recover identifier values can be selected.
Referring momentarily to FIG. 9, by one approach, eight bits from the encrypted roll group
74 are selected to form a corresponding roll sub-group 91. These might comprise, fot
example, the first or the last eight bits of the encrypted roll group 74 (in a forward or reversed
order). These might also comprise, for example, any eight consecutive bits beginning with
any pre-selected bit position (such as, to illustrate, the seventh bit, the 21' bit, and so forth);
Other possibilities also exist. For example, only even position bits or odd position bits could
serve in this regard. It would also be possible, for example, to use preselected bits as
comprise one or more of the previously described roll group sub-groups such as roll group E
74A or roll group G 74C.
[0052]      It would also be possible to vary the selection mechanism from, for example, joint
message to joint message. By one simple approach in this regard, for example, the first eight
bits of the encrypted roll group 74 could be used to form the roll sub-group 91 with the last
eight bits of the encrypted roll group 74 being used in a similar fashion in an alternating
manner.

[0053]      The eight bits that comprise this roll sub-group 91 are then further parsed to form
the two recovery indicators 81E and 81F mentioned above. Again, there are numerous ways
by which one may use the bits that comprise the roll sub-group 91 to form these recovery
indicators 81E and 8IF. By one simple approach, for example, the bits as comprise the roll
sub-group 91 can be used in their existing (or reversed) order to form roll group 1 81E and
roll group 2 8IF. Using this approach, for example, bit B3 of roll group 1 81E would
comprise bit seven from the roll sub-group 91 with bit B2 then corresponding to bit six and
so forth.
[0054]      By another approach, if desired, every other bit can be applied in this manner. So
configured, for example, bit B3 could comprise bit six from the roll sub-group 91, bit B2
could comprise bit four from the roll sub-group 91, and so forth. In such a case, bit B7 would
then comprise bit seven from the roll sub-group 91, bit B6 would comprise bit five from the
roll sub-group 91, and so forth.
[0055]      Referring again to FIG. 8, in this embodiment, the "B7, B6, B5, B4" values from
the corresponding recovery indicator are used in conjunction with one or more lookup tables
to determine a data bit order pattern to use with respect to formatting the data as comprises
the second portion8.2 of the joint message 80. Similarly, the "B3, B2, Bi, B0" values are
used in conjunction with a lookup table to determine a data bit order pattern to also use with
that second portion 82 of the joint message 80.
 [0056]      Before providing further elaboration regarding an illustrative example of such
 lookup tables and their use, it will be helpful to first note that, in this example, the data in the
 second portion 82 of the joint message comprises 10 bits from roll group F (or H) and 10 bits
 each from fixed group A (or C) and fixed group B (or D) for a total of 30 bits. These bits are
 organized into triplets (shown in FIG. 8 in the form "(F, B, A)" and "(H, D, C)" to indicate
 that each such triplet includes one bit from a roll group F or H and one bit each from the two
 fixed groups B and A or D and C.
  (0057]     Those skilled in the art will note that, in this illustrative example, bits from roll
 group E 74A and roll group G 74C are not present in the second portion 82 of the joint
 message 80. This is because, in this example, it is presumed that the contents of these two roll
 groups are used to form the recovery indicators that appear in the first portion 81 of the joint

 message 80. Other accommodations can of course be made in this regard. In general,
 however, these teachings will accommodate not including those encrypted rolling code bits
 that are used as recovery indicators in the second portion 82 of the joint message 80.
 [0058]       In the example shown, the order of the bits in each triplet is "F, B, A" (or "H, D,
 C" as appropriate). This order is neither arbitrary nor static. Instead, for this particular joint
 message 80, this order of the bits in each triplet isdictated by the values B7, B6, B5, B4
 noted above. In this case, and referring now to FIG. 10, alookup table 101 serves to correlate
 various values for these two bit pairs with corresponding data bit order patterns. In this
 example, presuming that the values of these four bits happens to be "0000," the
corresponding order of bits for each triplet is established as "F/H, BID, A/C" and hence the
ordering of the bits depicted in FIG. 8.
[0059]       Those skilled in the art will note that this lookup table 101 provides no patterns
that would correlate to two bit pairs having the value " 1." This is because, in this
embodiment, "I 1" as abit pair value comprises an illegal value and hence is not expected to
occur. Accordingly there are no bit order patterns presented to correlate with such values.ps
"I XX," "XXII," or "I111." This creates 9 possible selections forthe order of bits and the
inversion value. The number of possible unique order of three bits leads to only six different
bit order patterns. This degree of diversity should suffice for most if not all purposes.
[0060]       The aforementioned B3, 32, Bi, BO values 81F are employed in asimilar fashion
with this lookup table 101 to identify aparticular inversion pattern to be employed with the
data triplets of the second portion 82 of the joint message 80. For example, when these bits
are "0000." this lookup table provides for no inversion of any of the bits in each triplet. On
the other hand, when these bits are "1010," each bit of each triplet is to be inverted. In this
case, up to eight different inversion patterns are possible.
[0061]       To illustrate further, when a given data triplet happens to have the values "110"
and the inversion indicator has the values "0100," the lookup table will return adata
inversion pattern of "normal invert invert." As a result, this particular data triplet will instead
have the values "101" because the second and third values in each triplet are now to be
inverted in value.

 [0062]       So configured, a first portion of a joint message is seen to include a recovery
 indicator that itself comprises a selected portion of an encrypted rolling code. A second
 portion of that joint message, in turn, contains data triplets having bits that are arranged in a
 patticular order and that observe a particular inversion pattern as a function of that joint
 indicator. Accordingly, it will not be sufficient for an unauthorized parry to simply glean, in
 some fashion, the basis of the rolling code itself. Instead, now, this unauthorized party must
 also now understand how a particular portion of that rolling code is used to modify the
 transmission of other portions of that rolling code in addition to fixed information as may
 also accompany the rolling code.
 [0063]       In many application settings it may be desirable to present more than one such
joint message to present a complete transmission. For example, and referring now to PIG. 11,
it may be desirable to use two (or more) such joint messages 80A and 80B in order to present
the complete rolling code and the complete fixed content and was described above. In such a
case, for example, the first joint message 80A can present and use a first roll sub-group 91 as
defined above as a recovery identifier (which comprises, in this illustrative example, roll
group E 74A) while the second joint message 80B presents and uses a second, different roll
sub-group B 91 (which comprises, in this illustrative example, roll group G 74C) for this
purpose. These recovery identifiers can be used as just described to control modification of
their corresponding data. So configured, in this illustrative example, 10 bits of roll group F
74B, 10 bits of fixed group A 75A, and 10 bits of fixed group B 75B have their bits ordered
 and inverted as a function of the bits of roll group E 74A while 10 bits of roll group H 74D,
 10 bits of fixed group C 75C. and 10 bits of fixed group D 75D are similarly ordered/inverted
 as a function of the bits of roll group G 74C.
 [00641       If desired, these joint messages 80A and 80B can be sent in a concatenated
 manner. By another approach, however, these joint messages can be separated by at least a
 minimal amount of silence (achieved, for example, by not transmitting during this period of
 time). For example, 75 milliseconds or so of blank time can be used for this purpose. So
configured, a receiver that receives a second joint message prior to this period of blank time
expiring can conclude that one or both of the received messages is somehow in error and
should be avoided.

 [00651      As noted above, in some cases it may be useful to transmit an additional amount
of data or information than that specifically provided above. For example, it may be useful to
transmit additional data that represents a particular instruction, status information, or the like.
Such additional information can be readily accommodated by the teachings set forth above.
To illustrate, and referring now to FIG. 12, 32 bits of such additional data can be subdivided
into four corresponding data groups I and J 122A and 12213 and K and L 122C and 122D
where each such data group has eight bits.
[0066]       Referring now to FIG. 13, the second portion 82 of each joint message 80 can now
comprise 54 bits. By one approach, this can comprise 8 bits for a repeated presentation of the
same rolling code group E or G as comprises the recovery identifier, 10 bits each for rolling
code group F or H, fixed group A or C, and fixed group B or D, as well as 8 bits each for data
group I or K and data group J or L as are described above. These various bits are again
combined into data triplets using a group selection pattern such as that illustrated in FIG. 13.
And, once again, the recovery identifier comprised of the roll group presented in the first
portion 81 of the joint message 80 is used to select from a lookup table(s) the particular bit
order and inversion patterns to employ with respect to these data triplets. In this case, and
referring now to FIG. 14, the lookup table 141 can include specific bit order patterns that
apply in different \.iys depending upon whether the data triplet includes the supplemental
data.
[0067)      In some cases, it may be necessary or appropriate to transmit even a larger
quantity of data than can be accommodated by the processes and techniques described above.
In such a case, if desired, additional supplemental joint messages can be used to present such
supplemental data. With reference to FIG. 15, 32 bit value data elements 151 can be parsed
using an application defined algorithm 152 of choice as corresponds to the data itself (or as
may be otherwise provided or selected) into four ternary bit pairs 153 and three data groups
of N bits each 154A - 154C.
[0068)      Referring now to FIG. 16, the recovery indicator can be reused from a previous
related joint message and the second portion 82 of the joint message 80 can contain 3 to the
Nth power bits as necessary to accommodate the full data payload. The three data groups A
C are then used to form corresponding data triplets. And, as before, the recovery identifier is
used to extract from a corresponding lookun table (such as the lookup table 171 presented in

FIG. 17) the particular bit order pattern and bit inversion pattern to employ with respect to the
transmission of these data triplets.
[00691       Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the above-described processes are
readily enabled using any of a wide variety of available and/or readily configured platforms,
including partially or wholly programmable platforms as are known in the art or dedicated
purpose platforms as may be desired for some applications. Referring now to FIG. 18, an
illustrative approach to such a platform will now be provided.
[0070)       In this illustrative embodiment, the apparatus 180 (which may comprise, for
example, a wireless remote control transmitter) comprises a processor 181 that couples to a
transmitter 182 (such as a wireless transmitter) of choice. Both of these components tllen also
operably couple to a first memory 183, a second memory 184, a first lookup table 185, and a
second lookup table 186. The first memory 183 can have a fixed value stored therein. This
fixed value can comprise, for example, information that substantially uniquely identifies this
particular apparatus 180. This first memory 183 may also, if desired, have a plurality of
different fixed values contained therein. This would permit storing, for example, remote.,
control signals that are not specific (i.e., unique) to the apparatus 180 itself.
(0071]       The second memory 184 can have the aforementioned encrypted rolling code
stored therein. By one approach, the processor 181 is configured and arranged to calculate the
encrypted rolling code when needed and to temporarily buffer that value in the second
memory 184 pending actual use of that information. By another approach, the encrypted
rolling code information can be pre-provisioned using a derivation and storage approach of
choice.
[0072]       The lookup tables 185 and 186 are the lookup tables described above. For
example, the first lookup table 185 can comprise the lookup table that correlates a first
plurality of different encrypted rolling code values with corresponding differing data bit order
patterns. Similarly, the second lookup table 186 can comprise the lookup table that correlates
a second plurality of different encrypted rolling code values with corresponding different data
 inversion patterns.
 [0073]      The processor 181 itself is configured and arranged (via, for example, appropriate
programming) to carry out selected teachinPq as have been presented above. So configured,

 for example, the processor 181 can be configured and arranged to use the encrypted rolling
code to select ones of the particular data bit order patterns and data inversion patterns for the
 transmitter 182 to use as transmission characteristics when transmitting the fixed value and at
 least portions of the encrypted rolling code. In particular, if desired, the processor can use a
first pan of the encrypted rolling code to select a data bit order pattern and a data inversion
pattern to use when transmitting a first part of the encrypted rolling code and the fixed value
and a second, different part of the encrypted rolling code to select a data bit order pattern and
a data inversion pattern to use when transmitting a second, different part of the encrypted
rolling code and the fixed value.
[0074]       Those skilled in the art will recognize and understand that such an apparatus 180
may be comprised of a plurality of physically distinct elements as is suggested by the
illustration shown in FIG. 18. It is also possible, however, to view this illustration as
comprising a logical view, in which case one or more of these elements can be enabled and
realized via a shared platform and/or a more-widely-distributed platform. It will also be
understood that such a shared platform may comprise a wholly or at least partially
programmable platform as are known in the art.
[0075]       So configured, those skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate that these
teachings offer great flexibility and opportunity with respect to further protecting information
during a wireless transmission of that information. These teachings have particular relevance
to transmissions of rolling codes and offer particular advantages when also used in
conjunction with the transmission of fixed information in addition to rolling code
information. The particular transmission characteristics presented are largely compatible for
use with a wide variety of wireless modulation techniques. Those skilled in the art will also
appreciate that these teachings are highly compatible for use with binary-based
representations of ternary data formats.
[0076]       Those skilled in the art will recognize chat a wide variety of modifications,
alterations, and combinations can be made with respect to the above described embodiments
without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, and that such modifications,
alterations, and combinations are to be viewed as being within the ambit of the inventive
concept.

[0077]       The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims means 'consisting at least
in part of. When interpreting statements in this specification and claims which include the term
'comprising', other features besides the features prefaced by this term in each statement can also be
present. Related terms such as 'comprise' and 'comprised' are to be interpreted in similar manner.
[0078]       In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of providing a
context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated otherwise, reference to
such external documents is not to be construed as an admission that such documents, or such sources
of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part of the common general knowledge in the
art.

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A method comprising:
       preparing for transmission of data between a movable barrier operator and a
peripheral device by:
              converting first binary data comprising information relating to the movable
       barrier operator into ternary data using a first conversion method;
              converting the ternary data to a binary format to provide binary information
       representative of the information relating to the movable barrier operator, the
       converting done in a way not mirroring the first conversion method;
       transmitting the binary information between the movable barrier operator and the
peripheral device.
2.     The method of claim 1 wherein the converting the ternary data to the binary format
comprises mapping each trit of the ternary data to a corresponding pair of binary bits.
3.     The method of claim 2 wherein transmitting the binary information further
comprises transmitting pairs of binary bits, wherein individual ones of the pairs of binary
bits represents one of:
       a particular ternary value;
       an illegal value.
4.     The method of claim 3 wherein the illegal value serves a synchronization function.
5.     The method of claim 4 wherein:
       a first particular ternary value for the particular ternary value corresponds to bearer
content having a first size;
       a second particular ternary value for the particular ternary value corresponds to
bearer content having a second size, which second size is different than the first size;
       a third particular ternary value for the particular ternary value corresponds to
updating a rolling code as is employed by the movable barrier operator.
6.     The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the first binary data
comprises fixed information corresponding to the movable barrier operator.

7.     The method of claim 6 wherein the fixed information comprises identifying
information.
8.     The method of claim 7 wherein the first binary data further comprises non-fixed
information corresponding to the movable barrier operator.
9.     The method of any one of the preceding claims further comprising providing the
first binary data, including combining at least some of first binary bits with rolling code
bits.
 10.   A method comprising:
       converting first binary data comprising information relating to a movable barrier
operator into ternary data using a first conversion method;
       converting the ternary data to a binary format to provide binary information
representative of the information relating to the movable barrier operator, the converting
done in a way not mirroring the first conversion method;
       transmitting the binary information between the movable barrier operator and a
peripheral device;
       providing the first binary data, including combining at least some of first binary bits
with rolling code bits;
       wherein combining at least some of the first binary bits with rolling code bits further
comprises:
              exclusive ORing the first binary bits with the rolling code bits to provide
       encrypted bits;
              concatenating the encrypted bits with the rolling code bits to provide resultant
       bits;
              reverse ordering the resultant bits to provide reverse ordered bits; and
       wherein converting the first binary data into the ternary data further comprises:
              converting the reverse ordered bits into the ternary data.
11.    The method of claim 10 and further comprising:
       interleaving the ternary data with other ternary data;
       wherein converting the ternary data to a binary format further comprises converting

the interleaved ternary data to the binary format to provide the binary information.
 12.   The method of claim 11 wherein interleaving the ternary data with other ternary data
further comprises:
       providing additional binary bits comprising information corresponding to the
movable barrier operator;
       converting the additional binary bits comprising information corresponding to the
movable barrier operator into intermediate ternary data;
       modifying the intermediate ternary data using rolling code information to provide
the other ternary data.
 13.   The method of claim 12 wherein modifying the intermediate ternary data using
rolling code information further comprises: modifying the intermediate ternary data using
the ternary data.
 14.   The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the transmitting the binary
information comprises transmitting the binary information to at least one of: a movable
barrier operator, an alarm system, or a sensor.
 15.   An apparatus comprising at least one of a movable barrier operator and a device that
communicates with a movable barrier operator, the apparatus comprising:
       a memory device configured to store first binary data comprising information
relating to a movable barrier operator;
       a processing device in operable communication with the memory device and
configured to preparing for transmission of data between the movable barrier operator and
the device that communicates with the movable barrier operator by converting convert the
first binary data into ternary data using a first conversion method and to convert
converting the ternary data to a binary-formatted version in a way not mirroring the first
conversion method;
       a transmitter operably coupled to the processing device and the memory device and
configured to externally transmit the binary-formatted version of the ternary data to one of
the movable barrier operator and the device that communicates with the movable barrier
operator.

 16.   The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the processing device is further configured to
convert the ternary data to the binary-formatted version by mapping each trit of the ternary
data to a corresponding pair of binary bits.
17.    The apparatus of claim 15 or claim 16 wherein the first binary data comprises fixed
identifying information      corresponding to the movable        barrier operator, non-fixed
information corresponding to the movable barrier operator, or both.
 18.   The apparatus of any one of claims 15-17 wherein the processing device is further
configured to create the first binary data in part by combining at least some of first binary
bits with rolling code bits.
 19.   An apparatus comprising at least one of a movable barrier operator and a device that
communicates with a movable barrier operator, the apparatus comprising:
       a memory device configured to store first binary data comprising information
relating to a movable barrier operator;
       a processing device in operable communication with the memory device and
configured to convert the first binary data into ternary data using a first conversion method
and to convert the ternary data to a binary-formatted version in a way not mirroring the
first conversion method;
       a transmitter operably coupled to the processing device and the memory device and
configured to externally transmit the binary-formatted version of the ternary data to one of
the movable barrier operator and the device that communicates with the movable barrier
operator;
       wherein the processing device is further configured to combine at least some of the
first binary bits with rolling code bits by:
             exclusive ORing the first binary bits with the rolling code bits to provide
       encrypted bits;
             concatenating the encrypted bits with the rolling code bits to provide resultant
       bits;
             reverse ordering the resultant bits to provide reverse ordered bits; and
       wherein the processing device is further configured to convert the first binary data
into the ternary data by converting the reverse ordered bits into the ternary data.

20.    The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the processing device is further configured to
interleave the ternary data with other ternary data; and
       the processing device is further configured to convert the ternary data to the binary
format by converting the interleaved ternary data to the binary-formatted version.
21.    A wireless transmitter device for sending a radio frequency signal to a garage door
operator having a wireless receiver such that in response to receiving the radio frequency
signal the garage door operator actuates an electric motor to open or close a movable
barrier, wherein the garage door operator actuates the electric motor in response to
receiving a control message comprising encrypted binary data via the radio frequency
signal, the control message configured to be decrypted by the garage door operator by
converting the encrypted binary data into ternary data and then converting the ternary data
into second binary data in a way not reversing the conversion of the encrypted binary data
into the ternary data, the wireless transmitter device comprising:
       a processing device;
       a memory device coupled to the processing device and configured to store data
transmitted as part of the radio frequency signal;
       a transmitter operably coupled to the processor device and the memory device;
       an antenna in combination with the transmitter and configured to send the radio
frequency signal conveying the control message.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
