ABSTRACT
A real-time imaging system that provides ultrasonic imaging and optoacoustic imaging
coregistered through application of the same hand-held probe to generate and detect
ultrasonic and optoacoustic signals. These signals are digitized, processed and used to
reconstruct anatomical maps superimposed with maps of two functional parameters of blood
hemoglobin index and blood oxygenation index.    The blood hemoglobin index represents
blood hemoglobin concentration changes in the areas of diagnostic interest relative to the
background blood concentration. The blood oxygenation index represents blood oxygenation
changes in the areas of diagnostic interest relative to the background level of blood
oxygenation. These coregistered maps can be used to noninvasively differentiate malignant
tumors from benign lumps and cysts.
                                        -- 35 --

              1/28
       OB                  OB
FB     AD                  AD    FB
  LD           BM               L
   OB                         OB
             EC
    OW        TR             OW
               AL
                                    SK
      SL                rAW
                  () BV or TM       TS
          FIG. 1A

   DUAL MODALITY IMAGING SYSTEM FOR COREGISTERED FUNCTIONAL
                               AND ANATOMICAL MAPPING
[0001]      This application is a divisional application of Australian application no.
2012332233, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Most of the
disclosure of that application is also included herein, however, reference may be made to the
specification of application no. 2012332233 as filed or accepted to gain further understanding
of the invention claimed herein.
FIELD OF THE TECHNOLOGY
[0002]      At least some embodiments disclosed herein relate, in general, to systems for
biomedical imaging, and more particularly, to real-time imaging systems that visualize thin
tissue slices noninvasively through skin.
BACKGROUND
[0003]      Medical ultrasound imaging is a well-established imaging technology for
visualization of tissue morphology in various organs that provides diagnostic information
based on analysis of anatomy. Optoacoustic imaging is used in medical applications for in
vivo and in vitro mapping of animal and human tissues and organs based on variation in
tissue optical properties. Optoacoustic tomography can provide anatomical, functional and
molecular imaging, but the most significant value of optoacoustic imaging is in its capability
to provide quantitative functional information based on endogenous contrast of molecular
constituents of red blood cells. The essence of functional imaging is to provide the physician
with a map of blood distribution and its level of oxygenation, so that the physician can
determine whether particular tissue functions normally or not. For example, a map of total
hemoglobin distribution simultaneously showing an area with increased concentration and
decreased oxygen saturation indicates potential malignancy. The essence of molecular
imaging is to provide maps of distributions and concentrations of various molecules of
interest for a specific health condition. For example, distribution of specific protein receptors
in cell membranes gives insight into molecular biology or cells that aids in designing drugs
and therapeutic methods to treating human diseases.

SUMMARY
[00041       One aspect provides an optoacoustic imaging system comprising ultrasonic
transducers configured to detect ultrasonic signals resulting from selective absorption of a
first optical pulse and a second optical pulse in hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin of blood
contained in a tissue; a processing system configured to receive data from the ultrasonic
transducers and to generated from the received data: a first functional image reflecting
distribution of total hemoglobin concentration; a second functional image reflecting
distribution of blood oxygen saturation; and a morphological image of structures in the tissue;
the processing system being further configured to substantially co-register the first functional
image, the second functional image, and the morphological image in time and space, and to
output a substantially co-registered image.
[0005]       Another aspect provides a method for coregistered functional and anatomical
mapping of tissue, the method comprising: a) detecting ultrasonic signals resulting from
selective absorption of a plurality of optical pulses in hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin of
blood contained in the tissue; b) processing detected ultrasonic signals to remove noise, to
revert signal alterations in the course of signal propagation through tissue and through the
detection system components, and to restore a temporal shape and ultrasonic spectrum of the
original signals; c) generating morphological images of tissue structures coregistered and
superimposed with partially transparent functional images reflecting total hemoglobin
concentration and blood oxygen saturation; and d) repeating steps a) to c) at a video frame
rate such that real-time images display tissue functional and morphological changes
substantially as they occur.
[0006]       In an embodiment, the invention provides a real-time imaging system that
visualizes thin tissue slices noninvasively through skin and provides three independent and
co-registered images with biomedically significant information. Specifically, images of deep
biological tissue structures are precisely superimposed with images of tissue functional state,
such as the total hemoglobin concentration and blood level of oxygen saturation. The
invention in this embodiment thus combines ultrasonic imaging and optoacoustic imaging
technologies in a novel manner. These technologies can advantageously be combined given
the complementary nature of information provided by them, and the fact that the same set of
ultrasonic/pressure detectors and the same set of analog and digital electronics can be used to
acquire both types of signals from tissues. In order to achieve a high level of accuracy of
quantitative information and present it substantially in real time (i.e. substantially as it
                                               -- 2--

occurs), a design is disclosed that utilizes one or more dual-wavelength short-pulse lasers or a
plurality of single-wavelength short pulse lasers, a fiberoptic light delivery system, a hand
held imaging probe, other electronic hardware and processing software.
[0007]       In an embodiment, an imaging system is disclosed for visualization of slices into
the depth of tissue of at least a portion of a body. The system includes a processing
subsystem that produces three independent images, including two functional images showing
distribution of the total hemoglobin concentration and distribution of the blood oxygen
saturation and one morphological image of tissue structures, the images being co-registered
in time and space by utilizing one and the same hand-held imaging probe. The system may
include a three-dimensional positioning system which provides the capability of assembling
three dimensional volumetric images of said body from two-dimensional slices made though
the depth of tissue obtained by scanning a hand-held probe along the surface of at least
portion of the body.
[0008]       In an embodiment, an imaging method provides coregistered functional and
anatomical mapping of tissue of at least a portion of a body. Ultrasonic pulses are delivered
into the tissue and backscattered ultrasonic signals reflected from various structural tissue
boundaries associated with body morphology are detected. Two optical pulses having
different spectral bands of electromagnetic energy are delivered, and transient ultrasonic
signals resulting from selective absorption of different energy fractions from each of the two
optical pulses by hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin of blood containing tissues are detected.
Detected ultrasonic signals are processed to remove noise, to revert signal alterations in the
course of signal propagation through tissue and through the detection system components,
and to restore the temporal shape and ultrasonic spectrum of the original signals. Image
reconstruction and processing is performed to generate morphological images of tissue
structures coregistered and superimposed with partially transparent functional images of the
total hemoglobin concentration and blood oxygen saturation. The above steps of the process
are repeated with a video frame rate so that real-time images can display tissue functional and
morphological changes substantially as they occur.
                                                -- 3 --

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0009]      The disclosed embodiments are illustrated by way of example and not limitation
in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar
elements.
[0010]      FIG. 1A illustrates an embodiment of an optoacoustic probe with illumination of
tissue through skin by a scattered light beam formed in tissue by merging two optical beams.
[0011]      FIG. 1B illustrates how laser illumination light and an acoustic signal from an
optoacoustic probe can be scattered from the skin towards an acoustic lens of a probe.
[0012]      FIGS. 2A and 2B illustrate optoacoustic signals showing the impact of lateral
ultrasonic waves induced by laser pulses in skin using optical beams on each side of an
ultrasound transducer array, and using detection by transducers tilted at large angle relative to
the plane of images generated therefrom.
[0013]      FIG. 3 illustrates an embodiment of manifestation of image artifacts associated
with the edge effect of optical illumination beam having abrupt changes of the optical
fluence.
[0014]      FIGS. 4A-4C illustrate embodiments wherein optical illumination of tissue is
accomplished using a hand-held optoacoustic probe that delivers optical energy from either
under the optoacoustic probe or on the side of the probe at different distances.
[0015]      FIGS. 5A and 5B illustrate two embodiments of a hand-held optoacoustic
ultrasonic probe protected from optical illumination of the acoustic lens.
[0016]      FIG. 6 illustrates optoacoustic images using a probe with an acoustic lens that is
not totally optically reflective and with a probe having an optically reflective layer of gold,
which removes lens related image artifacts.
[0017]      FIG. 7A illustrates an embodiment of an optical beam with sharp edges that may
produce edge effects of acoustic waves and related artifacts and an optical beam with smooth
edges producing reduced edge-related artifacts.
[0018]      FIGS. 7B and 7C illustrate designs of an output fiber bundle with multiple sub
bundles shaped to provide even illumination of the image plane and reduce edge related
optoacoustic artifacts.
[0019]      FIG. 8 illustrates the effect of optical illumination for two probes where two fiber
bundles on each side of the respective probes are oriented to illuminate skin directly under
the probe.
[0020]      FIG. 9A illustrates embodiments of ultrasonic probes having flat, concave or
convex arc shapes.
                                               -- 4--

[0021]      FIG. 9B shows a hand-held optoacoustic probe having a concave arc shape.
[0022]      FIG. 9C illustrates details of a hand-held optoacoustic probe having a concave arc
shape.
[0023]      FIG. 9D shows an optoacoustic image of three spherical objects and demonstrates
that within the field of view of the arc spatial (and especially lateral) resolution is excellent
even for a large object.
[0024]      FIG. 9E illustrates an alternate embodiment of an optoacoustic/ultrasonic hand
held probe design.
[0025]       FIGS. 10A-10C show examples of the impulse response of an ultrasonic
transducer with a relatively narrow ultrasonic frequency band of sensitivity, the impulse
response of an ultrawide-band ultrasonic transducer, and the ultrasonic spectra of transducer
sensitivity as a function of frequency for ultrawide-band and narrow band resonant
transducers.
[0026]       FIGS. 11 A-1 1B provides an illustrative example of the deconvolution of impulse
response of transducers from the detected optoacoustic signals where deconvolution restores
the original, unaltered, N-shaped pressure signals.
[0027]       FIGS. 12A-12C provide an illustrative example of wavelet filtered N-shaped
optoacoustic signals restored to their original rectangular pressure profile by summation of all
scales corresponding to frequency ranges from low to high for five scales, seven scales and
nine scales.
[0028]       FIG. 13 provides an illustrative diagram of radial backprojection where each
transducer element aperture is weighted and normalized for the total aperture of the
transducer array.
[0029]       FIGS. 14A and 14B provide an illustrative example of optoacoustic tomographic
images of an imaging slice through tissue with a small artery, larger vein and a rectangular
grid allowing estimation of system performance in visualization of microvessels.
[0030]      FIGS. 15A and 15B provide an illustrative example of optoacoustic tomographic
images of a point spread function as visualized with a flat linear probe using a
backpropagation algorithm and an aperture normalized backprojection algorithm.
[0031]      FIGS. 16A and 16B provide an illustrative example of optoacoustic images of a
phantom with hairs embedded at different depths where the first image was created using an
embodiment of a standard palette and the second image was created using an embodiment of
a depth-normalized palette.
[0032]      FIGS. 17A and 17B provide an illustrative example of optoacoustic images of a
                                               -- 5 --

phantom of a spherical simulated tumor obtained with a flat linear probe.
[0033]      FIG. 18 shows a diagram illustrating tumor differentiation based on absorption
coefficients at two wavelengths, 757 nm and 1064 nm, which match the local maximum of
hemoglobin absorption like in totally in hypoxic blood (757 nm) and minimum of the ratio of
absorption by hypoxic hemoglobin to absorption by oxyhemoglobin like in normally
oxygenated blood (1064 nm).
[0034]      FIG. 19 illustrates tumor differentiation based on absorption coefficients at two
wavelengths in a phantom simulating benign (box) and malignant (sphere) tumors.
[0035]      FIG. 20A shows an optoacoustic image of two intersecting tubes filled with blood
having different levels of blood [S02].
[0036]      FIG. 20B shows a photograph of an experimental setup that includes artificial
blood vessels placed in milk solution and imaged using arc-shaped optoacoustic probe.
[0037]      FIG. 20C shows coregistered 2D cross-sectional anatomical and functional images
of blood vessel tubes showing six image panels with different anatomical and functional
images.
[0038]      FIGS. 21A and 21B show optoacoustic signal amplitude as a function of blood
oxygen saturation (with constant hematocrit) under laser illumination at a wavelength of 1064
nm in FIG. 21A and at 757 nm in FIG. 21B. These plots illustrate that blood oxygen
saturation can be monitored with optoacoustic imaging.
[0039]      FIG. 22 illustrates optical absorption spectra of the main tissue chromophores
absorbing optical energy in the near-infrared range: hemoglobin, oxyhemoglobin and water.
[0040]      FIGS. 23A and 23B illustrate coregistered functional and anatomical imaging of
breast tumors in phantoms accurately replicating optical and acoustic properties of an average
breast with tumors.
[0041]      FIGS. 24A and 24B illustrate coregistered functional and anatomical imaging of
breast tumors.
                                              -- 6--

DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0042]       The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed
as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding.
However, in certain instances, well-known or conventional details are not described in order
to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present
disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment; and, such references mean
at least one.
[0043]       Reference in this specification to "an embodiment" or "the embodiment" means
that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least an embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the
phrase "in an embodiment" in various places in the specification are not necessarily all
referring to the same embodiment, nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually
exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover, various features are described which may be
exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly, various requirements are
described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.
System Overview
[0044]       In at least some embodiments, the present disclosure is directed to a dual-modality
ultrasonic/optoacoustic system for medical diagnostics that uses a hand-held probe for
scanning along the skin surface of an organ and provides two types of two-dimensional maps
into the depth of tissue, anatomical (morphological) and functional (blood hemoglobin index
and blood oxygenation index). In an embodiment, these two maps are spatially coregistered
by using the same array of ultrasonic transducers and temporally coregistered by acquiring
the two types of images in real time, faster than any physiological changes can occur in the
tissue of diagnostic interest. The blood hemoglobin index represents blood hemoglobin
concentration changes in the areas of diagnostic interest relative to the background blood
concentration. The blood oxygenation index represents blood oxygenation changes in the
areas of diagnostic interest relative to the background level of blood oxygenation. These
coregistered maps can be used to noninvasively differentiate malignant tumors from benign
lumps and cysts.
[0045]       In an embodiment, the dual-modality ultrasonic/optoacoustic system of the present
                   ~ _ - .
             --- _--7           I-----              --

disclosure provides two-dimensional imaging of a body utilizing delivery of optical energy
and acoustic detection of resulting transient pressure waves using interchangeable hand-held
probes, one of which is flat and used to perform a translational scan through at least a flat
portion of the body under examination, and the second of which is curved being shaped as a
concave arc to perform a translational scan through at least a cylindrical or curved portion of
the body under examination, both scans contribute to a more complete understanding normal
or pathological functions in the body.
 [0046]     In an embodiment, at least a portion of the body under examination contain
molecules of blood constituents such as hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin responsible for body
functions or receptors in cells responsible for cell functioning, water, lipids or other
constituents.
{0047}      In an embodiment, optical energy produced using at least one laser beam is used
for body illumination with at least one wavelength of light. In an embodiment, the optical
energy is pulsed, with the pulse duration shorter than the time of ultrasound propagation
through the distance in the body equal to the desirable spatial resolution. In an embodiment,
the optical energy is within the spectral range from 532 nm to 1064 nm. In an embodiment,
the optical energy is replaced with other electromagnetic energy with the wavelength from 1
nm to lm.
 [0048]     In an embodiment, electronic signals produced by ultrasonic transducers are
amplified using low noise wide band electronic amplifiers with high input impedance. In an
embodiment, analog electronic signals are digitized by a multi-channel analog-to-digital
converter and further processed utilizing a field programmable gate array. In an embodiment,
the ultrasonic transducers are ultrawide-band transducers that detect ultrasonic signals with
no or minimal reverberations. In an embodiment, the system is integrated with an ultrasound
imaging system used to enhance visualization of acoustic boundaries in the body and parts of
the body with different density and/or speed of sound.
 [0049]     In an embodiment, quantitative measurements of concentrations of target
molecules, cells or tissues is made through characterization of optical energy propagation and
absorption combined with processing of digital electronic signals by deconvolution of the
hardware transfer function in order to obtain intrinsic optoacoustic amplitude and profile of
such signals and the distribution of the optical absorption coefficient in the body.
 [0050]     In an embodiment, an optoacoustic contrast agent is used to visualize a portion of
the body of interest or characterize distribution of certain molecules, cells or tissues in the
body.
                                               -- 8 -

[0051]      In an embodiment, the system comprises at least a laser, a light delivery system,
an optoacoustic probe, an electronic system, a computer and an image display.
Laser
[0052]      In an embodiment, the laser is capable of emitting short, nanosecond pulses of
near infrared light at two (or more) different toggling wavelengths, i.e. two different spectral
bands. In an embodiment, one of the wavelengths is preferentially absorbed by hemoglobin
of blood and the other is preferentially absorbed by oxyhemoglobin of blood. In an
embodiment, illumination of the organ under examination with the first laser pulse at one
wavelength (spectral band) and detection of the first optoacoustic signal profile resulting
from the first illumination, followed by the illumination with the second laser pulse at the
second wavelength band and detecting of the second optoacoustic signal profile, can provide
data that can be used for reconstruction of two coregistered tomographic images that can be
used for generation of functional maps of the areas of diagnostic interest based on (i) blood
hemoglobin index and (ii) blood oxygenation index.
Light Delivery System
[0053]       In an embodiment, the light delivery system comprises bundles of optical fibers.
In an embodiment, the input of the optical fiber bundle is circular to match the incident laser
beam, while the output of the fiber bundle is rectangular to match the size and shape of the
ultrasonic transducer array. In an embodiment, each fiber has a small diameter (e.g., down to
50 micron) to provide excellent flexibility of the bundles. In an embodiment, the input tip of
the fiber bundle is fused to shape the bundle into a hexagon and to eliminate spaces between
the fibers in the bundle, thereby providing up to 20% better transmission of the laser energy.
In an embodiment, the output tip of the fiber bundle is fully randomized such that fibers that
appear close to each other at the input will appear far from each other at the output or even in
different branches of the bifurcated fiber bundle.
Optoacoustic Probe
[0054]       The probe is designed to provide high contrast and resolution of both optoacoustic
and ultrasonic images. In an embodiment, the probe is a hand-held probe with an array of
ultrasonic/optoacoustic transducers, which can be designed to be single dimensional, 1.5
dimensional or two-dimensional. In an embodiment, the transducers detect acoustic waves
within an ultra-wide band of ultrasonic frequencies and the ultra-wide band is shaped to
match the spectrum of optoacoustic signals emitted by tissue of diagnostic interest. In an
embodiment, the transducers are also designed to emit acoustic waves as short pulses of
ultrasound with short ring-down time and minimal reverberations of gradually decreasing
                                              -- 9 --

magnitude.
[0055]       To achieve such a design, transducer material can be chosen from, for example,
piezoelectric ceramics (such as PZT, PMN-PT, and PZNT), piezoelectric single crystals (such
as PZT, PMN-PT, and PZNT), piezoelectric polymers (such as PVDF and copolymer PVDF
copolymer), composite polymer-ceramic and polymer-crystal piezoelectric materials and
capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducers (CMUT). In an embodiment, the thickness
of the transducer elements that provide the central frequency and materials of the backing
layer and the front surface matching layer of the transducers are optimized.
[0056]       In various embodiments, the shape of the ultrasound transducer array may be
either flat or concave arc. A flat design is suited to scanning of the surface of an organ under
examination that has radius of curvature much larger than the size of the probe, such as a
human body. A concave arc-shaped design provides the largest aperture for the optoacoustic
signal detection with minimal physical dimensions. The large aperture, in turn, provides for
improved lateral resolution within the angle of the field of view formed by lines connecting
the arc's focal point with each edge transducer of the array. The arc-shaped probe is often the
most effective for scanning body surfaces that are curved with a radius approximately
matching that of the probe (such as the average sized breast, neck, arms and legs).
[0057]       FIG. 1A illustrates an embodiment of an optoacoustic probe that provides
illumination of tissue (TS) through skin (SK) by the scattered light (SL) beam formed in
tissue by merging two optical beams (OB) emerging from fiber bundles (FB) expanding and
passing through light diffusers (LD) then passing through optical windows (OW). Acoustic
waves (AW) generated in blood vessels or tumors (BV or TM) by the scattered light (SL) in
tissue propagate through acoustic lens (AL) to transducers (TR) and converted into electrical
signals being transmitted by electrical cables (EC) through the backing material (BM) to the
electronic amplifiers.
[0058]       In an embodiment, the design of the optical fiber bundle is as follows. The input
of the fiber bundle is circular with fused fiber tips to avoid loss of light through spaces
between the fibers. The fiber diameter may be approximately 200 microns for good
flexibility, and a fiber diameter of 100 microns or even 50 microns may be desirable in a
particular application. This fiber bundle is Y-split into two half-bundles and fully
randomized, so that substantially any two neighboring fibers from the input appear in
different half-bundles. At least a majority of the neighboring fibers should be randomized in
this regard. Each half-bundle is preferably split into multiple sub-bundles, and each sub
bundle is placed in its slot/niche to form fiber bundle "paddles". The two paddles are placed
                                              -- 10--

on each side of the ultrasonic transducer (TR) array assembly. As is discussed below with
reference to FIGS. 7B and 7C, the output shape of each fiber bundle paddle may be
rectangular for the width of the field of view, typically 40 mm, and have triangular shaped
ends. Such triangular shape allows the output beam to have smooth edges after passing
through light diffuser (LD), FIG. 1A. Finally, the optical beam from fiber bundle paddles
exit from the probe into the skin (SK) through optical windows (OW) that comprise thin anti
reflection-coated glass plates or anti-reflection-coated polymer or plastic plates with acoustic
impedance matching that of tissues to be imaged.
[0059]      There are a number of objectives for the present optoacoustic probe design: (i)
substantially no light should propagate either through the acoustic lens (AL) or through the
optical block acoustic damper (OBAD) on the sides of the probe, (ii) substantially no acoustic
waves should be generated in the acoustic lens or the optical block acoustic damper materials
through absorption of light; acoustic waves in a wide range of ultrasonic frequencies from 0.1
MHz to 15 MHz should be able to pass through (AL) with no attenuation, and no acoustic
waves should be able to pass through OBAD; (iii) the optical beams (OB) exiting through
optical windows (OW) should have smooth edges of the optical fluence, and these optical
beams should enter the skin as close to each other as necessary to merge due to optical
scattering within the skin and enter underlying tissue under the array or transducers providing
maximum fluence in the image plane.
[0060]      In an embodiment, the light delivery system directs light underneath the
transducer elements, not through the array of transducer elements. In an embodiment, the
design of the optoacoustic probe is based on an array of ultrasonic transducers with fiber
optic delivery systems on each side of the ultrasonic array, positioned as close to the
transducers as possible and with dimensions in the elevation axis of the transducer as small a
possible, considering the need to focus ultrasonic beams to the depth of the most probable
target. In an embodiment, the fiber optic delivery system is designed to allow penetration of
the optical energy of the near infrared light into the organ being imaged, such as a breast, and
minimum opto-thermo-mechanical interaction of the light beam with skin.
[0061]      Another alternative design of the light delivery system delivers light to a mirror or
prism(s) placed underneath of the ultrasonic transducers in order to reflect the light
orthogonally to the skin surface of an organ being imaged. In such embodiments, a standoff
can be placed between the transducer elements and the skin/tissue. These alternative
embodiments may be combined within the scope of the invention.
                                               -- 11 --

Detailed Description of Aspects of System Components
Optical Illumination and Probe Design
[0062]       An acoustic lens is typically placed on transducers within an optoacoustic probe
for purposes of focusing ultrasonic beams. While a probe could be provided without an
acoustic lens, if there is no lens then ultrasonic transducers may be directly exposed to light
and absorb such light, which can result in very large artifact ultrasonic signals, especially
where such light is pulsed. Optical illumination of the lens on an ultrasonic probe causes
very strong transient acoustic waves that result in image artifacts. Up to 50% of near infrared
light can be diffusely scattered by skin, depending on skin color. Mismatch of acoustic
impedance between the lens of the transducer elements can cause reverberations with long
ring down time. Therefore, an embodiment of a probe design includes a white strongly
scattering opaque lens. If such lens is not needed due to curved shape of each transducer
element, then a white strongly scattering front matching layer should be employed to protect
transducer elements from near-infrared light.
[0063]       FIG. 1B illustrates how laser illumination light 110 and 120 from an optoacoustic
probe can be scattered 130 from the skin 140 towards an acoustic lens 150 of a probe.
[0064]       Furthermore, (laser) optical pulses can have a direct impact on ultrasonic
transducers of the acoustic waves induced by strong interaction of the optical pulses with skin
of the organ being imaged that laterally traverse along the skin surface in a direction
orthogonal to the image plane. When detected by the array of transducers, spatial
distributions of these acoustic waves are projected onto the optoacoustic image at a depth
equal to the lateral distance between the array of transducers and the optical beams on the
skin surface, creating artifacts. Furthermore, acoustic waves generated in skin through
reverberation of the acoustic lens and the housing of the probe can further affect the quality
of imaging.
[0065]       FIGS. 2A and 2B illustrate exemplary optoacoustic signals showing impact of
lateral ultrasonic waves induced by laser pulses in skin using optical beams on each side of an
ultrasound transducer array. The signals shown are generated by transducers in the direction
almost orthogonal to the plane of images generated therefrom. Such transducers may receive
signals at large oblique angle (up to 90 deg) relative to the plane of images generated
therefrom, which is undesirable. Therefore, the design of the transducer array includes means
to reject signals coming out of the image plane. Such means include but not limited to
concave arc shape of the transducer elements and acoustic lens and delivery of the optical
                                               -- 12--

beam underneath the transducers. The detected optoacoustic signals 210 in FIG. 2A were
generated using an effective acoustic coupling agent, in this case water. The signals 220 in
FIG. 2B were generated in the absences of such acoustic coupling agent, i.e., using only air
space to couple the acoustic signals to the transducer array.
[0066]      Furthermore, the finite dimensions of the optical beam can affect the acoustic
waves generated in response to impingement of the optical beam on tissue. Such acoustic
waves can be generated at the sharp edges of the optical beam, propagate towards the array of
transducers and result in artifacts. Since a system that utilizes flat linear array of ultrasonic
transducers is configured such that the first and the last transducer in the array detect these
waves first and the central transducers detect these waves the last, this "edge effect" results in
v-shaped artifacts on a sinogram of optoacoustic signals and low frequency bulk artifacts on
optoacoustic images.
[0067]      FIG. 3 illustrates an example of manifestation of v-shaped artifacts 310 on a
sinogram 300 of optoacoustic signals and associated artifacts 320 on optoacoustic images.
Since these acoustic waves are associated with the edge effect of the optical illumination
beams having abrupt changes of the optical fluence, in an embodiment, one can see a V
shaped bright signals on the sinogram and associated series of artifact waves on the opto
acoustic image.
[0068]      Furthermore, the illumination geometry of optical beams projected by an
optoacoustic probe can affect image quality. Where the optical beams of an optoacoustic
probe are placed too far apart, this can result in a gradual transition from the dark field
illumination (two separate optical beams on each side of the probe resulting in the absence of
direct light under the probe in the image plane) into the bright field of illumination (one beam
under the probe going into the depth of tissue along the image plane). This transition creates
a problem in the image brightness map making the map not quantitatively accurate and
causes artifacts at the depth equal to the initial width between separate optical illumination
beams on each side of the probe.
[0069]      FIGS. 4A-4C illustrate an embodiment wherein optical illumination of tissue is
accomplished using a hand-held optoacoustic probe 410, 420, 430 that delivers optical energy
from either under the optoacoustic probe or on the side of the probe at different distances. In
the embodiment of FIG. 4A, when the optical beams are delivered under the ultrasonic probe,
the distribution of the optical energy in the image plane has a smooth gradient with a
maximum at the skin surface. This optical distribution is beneficial for high contrast of
optoacoustic images. In the embodiment of FIG. 4B, when the optical beams are delivered
                                               -- 13 --

close to a thin optoacoustic probe, the two beams can merge due to optical scattering within
the skin, so that the distribution of the optical energy in tissue under the skin can be made
similar to the embodiment of FIG. 4A. In the embodiment of FIG. 4C, when the optical
beams are separated by a large distance, they merge only at significant depth within tissue,
creating the optical distribution in the image plane with a dark zone (no light) in a subsurface
layer of the tissue and a bright zone in the depth of the tissue, which is detrimental to the
contrast of optoacoustic images, especially considering projection of brightly illuminated
areas of skin onto the optoacoustic image plane at a depth equal to the separation distance of
the two beams.
[0070]       Thus, in the embodiments illustrated in FIGS. 4A-4C, the image brightness map
412, 422 and 432 of the tissue being scanned is optimized where the illumination of the skin
is directly under the probe 410. As the distance between the center of the transducers and the
center of the optical beams increases, as shown at 420 and 430, the image brightness map 422
and 432 of the tissue being scanned becomes progressively more uneven.
[0071]       Lastly, the reflection from boundaries of tissue structures (such as tumor, vessels
or tissue layers) of laser-induced ultrasound waves launched into the tissue after being
generated in skin, can also lead to image artifacts represented by lines, curves and overall
noise.
[0072]       In an embodiment, the acoustic lens of the probe is designed such that the lens
reflects and scatters, but does not absorb, light from the illumination components, yet it is
optically opaque. In various embodiments, such lens can be made either using strongly
optically scattering material such as silicon rubber filled with titanium dioxide or barium
sulfate powder, or using a thin metallic highly reflective layer such as aluminum or gold or a
combination a white opaque lens material and a metal layer. In an embodiment, to avoid
peel-off of the thin metallic layer from the front surface of the acoustic lens, in case of a
combination of diffusely scattering material of the lens and a thin reflective layer (foil), the
metallic reflective layer can be placed between the two layers of diffusely scattering material.
As it is difficult to make a material with absolutely zero optical absorption, and such
absorption may generate ultrasound in thermoelastic materials, the lens material can be made
from thermoplastic materials having minimal thermal expansion, which produces minimal or
no ultrasound in response to the absorbed optical energy.
[0073]       FIGS. 5A and 5B illustrate two embodiments, respectively, of hand-held
optoacoustic ultrasonic probes 510 and 520 that are protected from optical illumination of the
acoustic lens. In FIG. 5A, a totally reflective opaque white lens is utilized, and in FIG. 5B a
                                               -- 14--

partially reflective white lens is utilized, with light reflection capability of the lens enhanced
by a gold layer or coating.
[0074]        FIG. 6 illustrates optoacoustic images using a probe with a non-reflective acoustic
lens 610 and a probe with reflective layer of gold 620. The probe utilizing a reflective layer
of gold 620 produces an image with reduced artifacts 612 and 614.
[0075]        In an embodiment, the probe housing serves as hypo-echoic encapsulation of the
probe, which means that the probe housing is made from materials that (i) do not absorb laser
light (more specifically near-infrared light), but if a small absorption is unavoidable, the
materials having low thermal expansion do not emit ultrasound after absorption of the laser
light, (ii) strongly attenuate and dampen ultrasonic waves and do not reverberate. The
transducer assembly inside the probe housing is also made of the hypo-echoic material.
Alternatively, a layer of said hypo-echoic material is placed between the transducer assembly
and the fiberoptic assembly to avoid generation of any ultrasound upon interaction of light
with transducer assembly. In various embodiments, such materials can be chosen, for
example, from white color porous and anechoic heterogeneous composites for baffles, foams,
polymers, rubbers and plastics (such as CR-600 casting resin available from Micro-Mark of
Berkeley Heights, NJ, or AM-37 available from Syntech Materials of Springfield, VA), and
others. In an embodiment, any such materials are electrically non-conducting insulators to,
inter alia, protect the probe from external electromagnetic emissions.
[0076]        In an embodiment, the optical illumination subsystem is configured to deliver
optical beams with smooth intensity edges. In an embodiment, the width of the optical beams
is equal to that of the array of ultrasonic transducers within the optoacoustic probe (for
example, about 5 mm). This is achieved by designing the bundle of optical fibers to have a
gradually decreasing density of fibers at the edges. This design enables one to deliver laser
illumination to the skin of the organ under examination so that the beam does not generate
sharp edge-related acoustic waves, and such laser-induced acoustic waves do not produce V
shaped artifacts in the sinogram of optoacoustic images.
[0077]        FIG. 7A illustrates an embodiment of an optical beam with sharp edges 710 that
may produce edge effects of acoustic waves and related artifacts and an optical beam 720
with smooth edges producing reduced edge-related artifacts. FIGS. 7B and 7C illustrate that
an optical beam with smooth edges of fluence can be produced using a fiberoptic bundle
design having multiple sub-bundles and a triangular shape in each end of the fiber bundle
assembly.
[0078]        In an embodiment, the fiber bundle is positioned at a distance from skin that is
                                               -- 15 --

sufficient for the optical beam to expand to a desirable width. Where the dimensions of the
probe are compact, the fibers used in the fiber bundle can be selected to have a higher
numerical aperture (e.g., > 0.22). In an embodiment, in order to achieve better coupling of
the optical beam into the skin, the beam is delivered through an optical window. In such
embodiment, the optical window touches the skin, making its surface flat for better light
penetration, simultaneously removing any excess of coupling gel from the skin surface being
imaged. In an embodiment, the fiber bundle and the optical window are incorporated into the
probe housing, so that the air gap between the fiber bundle and the window is protected.
[0079]       In an embodiment, the optical window is designed is to allow minimal interactions
of both the optical beam and the laser-induced acoustic waves with such window. In an
embodiment, the window is very thin and made of optically transparent material with
antireflection (AR) optical coating. In an embodiment, such material has anechoic acoustic
properties. These anechoic acoustic properties and the fact that the illuminated skin is being
depressed upon optoacoustic scanning results in dampening of ultrasonic waves laterally
propagating from the laser-illuminated skin surface to the transducer array, thereby reducing
associated artifacts.
[0080]       In an embodiment, the probe is designed such that the optical beams are very
close to the transducer elements on each side of the ultrasonic probe, which is made as thin as
technologically possible. In an embodiment, the thickness of the probe is so small (e.g., 5
mm) that the light beams delivered to skin at this distance, d, from the probe center will
merge into one beam within the thickness of the skin (about z=5 mm), and the tissue of the
organ under examination receives one beam underneath the transducer elements. This is
called bright field illumination. In an embodiment, the optoacoustic probe is designed such
that the optical light beam is delivered to the skin directly underneath the transducer
elements.
[0081]       FIG. 8 illustrates the effect of optical illumination for two probes 810 and 820
where two fiber bundles on each side of the respective probes are oriented to illuminate skin
directly under the probe 812 and on either side of the probe 822. Where the skin is
illuminated directly under the probe 812, a tumor 814 is clearly discernable and there is no
clutter on the image background 816. Where the skin is illuminated on either side of the
probe 822, the tumor is not discernable 824 and there are numerous artifacts on the image
background 826.
[0082]       In an embodiment, the optical beam width is designed to deliver increased light
into the slice of tissue being imaged. In an embodiment, the beam is homogeneous, such that
                                                -- 16--

it has a constant fluence through the beam, as a heterogeneous beam generates acoustic
sources of heterogeneities, which in turn produce artifacts in optoacoustic images. The
fluence level is defined by the ANSI laser safety standards for the laser illumination of skin.
The beam width is limited by the capability of the optical scattering in tissue to deliver
photons of light into the central slice located underneath the transducer elements (the slice
being imaged). In an embodiment, the length of the optical beam is equal to the length of the
transducer array. In an embodiment, the optical beam also has smooth edges, that is to say,
gradually reduced fluence at the edges, since sharp edges produce strong edge artifacts on
optoacoustic images.
[0083]      In an embodiment, design features of the optical illumination system and
optoacoustic probe of the present disclosure can be summarized in the following Table:
Table 1. Summary of optical illumination and probe design.
    System Feature                                      Advantages
Arc hand-held probe Higher aperture - lower distortions
Light delivery into     Improves optoacoustic image contrast and decreases artifacts by
the imaging plane      increasing the ratio of useful information (from the imaging plane) to
                        noise (outside of the imaging plane)
Optical shielding of Reduces artifacts from direct and scattered light striking the acoustic
the probe              lens, probe housing, etc.
Acoustic shielding of Acoustic shielding of the probe's housing reduces artifacts (clutter)
the probe              from acoustic waves propagating through the probe's housing
Using ultrawide band Allows to have the same array working in ultrasonic and optoacoustic
transducers for both imaging
ultrasound and
optoacoustic imaging
[0084]      In various embodiments, the shape of the ultrasonic transducer array for the
combined optoacoustic/ultrasonic imaging can be either flat or convex arc-shaped. In an
embodiment, the probe shape for optoacoustic imaging is concave arc-shaped. Such a
                                               -- 17 --

concave shape provides a large aperture with minimal physical dimensions, wider field of
view of an object being imaged, which in turn provides for improved lateral resolution and
better reconstruction of the shape of the object being imaged.
[0085]       FIGS. 9A-9C illustrate embodiments of optoacoustic/ultrasonic hand-held probes
having flat or concave arc shapes 910 (FIG 9A) and a hand-held transrectal probe with a
linear shape 920 (FIG. 9B). FIG. 9C illustrates details of the optoacoustic/ultrasonic hand
held probe design with its face showing ultrasonic transducers assembly, two layers of hypo
echoic light reflecting and ultrasound damping material on each side, and two optical
windows for delivery of the optical beam.
[0086]       FIG. 9C illustrates details of a hand-held optoacoustic probe having a concave arc
shape. Electrical cables 930 are provided for bi-directional communication to and from the
probe, and fiberoptic bundles 940 are provided for delivering light to the probe. An array of
wide-band ultrasonic transducers 950 send and receive acoustic energy. The transducer array
950 is covered by an opaque white cylindrical lens (not shown for clarity purposes) that
extensively scatters and reflects near-infrared light. Optical windows 960 provide optical
beam outputs. In the embodiment FIG. 9C, the ultrasonic transducers within the probe may
be designed so as not to be sensitive to lateral acoustic (ultrasonic) waves and to be free of
reverberations, especially in the lateral direction. This can be achieved by the selection of the
piezoelectric composite material, the shape of piezoceramic elements in the matrix and
anechoic properties of the matrix. In an embodiment, the ultrasonic transducers are also
designed to possess high sensitivity within an ultrawide band of ultrasonic frequencies. This
in turn results in minimal reverberations that cause artifacts on optoacoustic/ultrasonic
images.
[0087]       FIG. 9D shows an optoacoustic image that illustrates advantages of the concave
arc shaped hand-held probe in terms of resolution in optoacoustic images. As presented in
this embodiment, the shape and sharp edges of a large sphere are well depicted in cases
where the object is within the field of view of the probe aperture. Outside the probe aperture
resolution and accuracy of shape reproduction decreases, however remains better than those
for flat linear probes of similar width.
[0088]       FIG. 9E illustrates an alternate embodiment of an optoacoustic/ultrasonic hand
held probe design that is capable of two-dimensional imaging within the plane going parallel
to the skin surface at various selected depths, and three-dimensional images as well.
[0089]       In an embodiment, a hand-held probe that is scanned along the skin surface
producing real-time two-dimensional images of tissues in the body under examination also
                                               -- 18 --

has a component serving for accurate global 3D positioning of the probe. This design allows
the imaging system to remember positions of all tissue slices and to reconstruct three
dimensional images at the end of the scanning procedure.
Electronic Data Acquisition System
[0090]       In an embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to an optoacoustic imaging
system having an electronic data acquisition system that operates in both optoacoustic and
ultrasonic modes and can rapidly switch between such modes. In an embodiment, this is
achieved with firmware that controls functions of a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA),
the main microprocessor on the electronic data acquisition system. In an embodiment, a
reprogrammable FPGA can toggle between optoacoustic and ultrasound operation modes in
real-time, thus enabling co-registration of ultrasound and optoacoustic images, which can be
used for diagnostic imaging based on functional and anatomical maps. In an embodiment,
FPGA functions include controlling, acquiring, and storing optoacoustic and/or ultrasound
data, signal processing and transferring data for real-time image reconstruction and
processing. In an embodiment, the FPGA may also be employed in ultrasound beam forming
and image reconstruction.
[0091]      In an embodiment, the electronic data acquisition system design utilizes one or
more multi-core Graphical Processor Units (GPU) for image reconstruction and processing.
In the ultrasound mode, in an embodiment, the FPGA controls the ultrasound transmission
and it performs both ultrasound and optoacoustic data acquisitions on a multi-channel board.
In order to enhance operation of the memory of the FPGA, an external memory buffer can be
used. In an embodiment, the FPGA allows rapid reprogramming of ultrasonic data
acquisition with signal/frame repetition rate of about 2 to 20 kHz to optoacoustic data
acquisition with signal/frame repetition rate of about 10-20 Hz, and also configures the
structure of gates and internal memory structure and size to allow real-time switching
between ultrasound emission and detection, laser synchronization, and system controls. In an
embodiment, multiple FPGAs can be used to enhance the system performance. In an
embodiment, in the ultrasound and optoacoustic modes, the FPGA clock can be changed by
the appropriate time-division multiplexing (TDM). In an embodiment, the design of a multi
channel electronic data acquisition system can be based on modules, with a module typically
being from 16 to 128 channels, although 256 channels or more may be appropriate in some
applications. In an embodiment, the design of a multi-channel electronic data acquisition
system has 64 channels.
                                             -- 19 --

[0092]      In order to achieve dual modality operation of the optoacoustic/ultrasonic system,
a separate optoacoustic electronic system could also be combined with a separate ultrasonic
electronic system through a single probe. In an embodiment, the probe has a cable that has a
Y- split to connect the probe to optoacoustic and ultrasonic electronic systems. In an
embodiment, a programmable electronic switch allows one to send the detected signal from
the probe (transducer array) either to the optoacoustic electronics (to operate in optoacoustic
mode) or to the ultrasonic electronics and from the ultrasonic electronics to the probe (to
operate in ultrasound mode). In an embodiment, a synchronization trigger signal is sent to
the optoacoustic and ultrasonic systems sequentially, so that the optoacoustic and ultrasonic
images are acquired one after the other.
Processing, Reconstruction and Display of Images
Signalprocessing
[0093]      In various embodiments, a goal of the diagnostic imaging procedure is to display
each pixel with a brightness that correctly replicates the originally generated signals in each
voxel of tissue displayed on the image. On the other hand, intrinsic pressure signals
generated by optical pulses within tissues may be significantly altered in the course of
propagation through tissue and especially in the course of detection and recording by the
ultrasonic transducers and the electronics subsystem.
[0094]      In an embodiment, detected signals are processed to reverse alterations and restore
original signals. In an embodiment, such reversal can be achieved through deconvolution of
the impulse response (IR) of the system. In an embodiment, the impulse response can be
measured by recording and digitizing a delta-function ultrasonic signal generated by short
(nanosecond) laser pulses in a strongly absorbing optical medium with high thermoelastic
expansion coefficient.
[0095]      One component of the impulse response is the acousto-electrical impulse
response, which provides for the optoacoustic or ultrasonic signal distortions due to the
properties of the ultrasonic transducers, cables and analog electronics. A second part of the
impulse response is the spatial impulse response that provides for the signal distortions
associated with finite dimensions of the ultrasonic transducers. In various embodiments,
large transducers can integrate ultrasonic waves incident at an angle, whereas point-source
like transducers can provide perfect or near perfect delta-function spatial impulse response.
[0096]      In an embodiment, any distortions in acousto-electrical impulse response can be
                                             -- 20 --

reversed by the impulse response deconvolution from the detected signals. However,
possible distortions in the spatial impulse response can be avoided by designing transducers
with small dimensions within the image plane. In an embodiment, the dimensions of the
transducers are much smaller than the shortest wavelength of the ultrasound that may be
detected or emitted by the transducers.
[0097]       FIGS. 10A-10C show examples of the impulse response of an ultrasonic
transducer with a relatively narrow band of sensitivity 1010, the impulse response of an
ultrawide-band ultrasonic transducer 1020 and ultrasonic spectra of the transducer sensitivity
as a function of frequency for ultrawide-band and narrow band resonant transducers 1030.
[0098]       In an embodiment, the first step in processing an optoacoustic signal in an
imaging system that produces two-dimensional optoacoustic images is deconvolution of the
acousto-electrical impulse response.
[0099]       FIGS. 11 A and 11 B provide an illustrative example of the deconvolution of
impulse response of transducers from the detected optoacoustic signals 1110, where
deconvolution restores the original, unaltered, N-shaped pressure signals 1120.
[00100]      In an embodiment, the second step in processing an optoacoustic signal is signal
filtering to remove noise using a signal filter. In an embodiment, the signal filter is based on
a wavelet transform that operates simultaneously in the frequency and time domain. In an
embodiment, such a wavelet filter is capable of filtering certain frequency components of the
signal that belong to noise and appear at a given time, while preserving similar frequency
components of the useful signal that appear at a different time. In an embodiment, the
frequency spectrum of a wavelet filter replicates the frequency band of a typical N-shaped
optoacoustic signal while simultaneously providing smooth window edges which do not
cause signal distortions upon convolution.
[00101]      In an embodiment, such a wavelet filter is useful in optoacoustic imaging in its
capability to restore the original pressure profile generated in tissue prior to pressure
propagation. In the course of propagation through tissue, the originally positive pressure
signal converts into a bipolar (compression / tension) profile. Therefore, reconstruction of an
image of absorbed optical energy (optoacoustic image) requires a transformation that starts
with bipolar signals and provides for all-positive values of the optoacoustic image intensities.
In an embodiment, a multi-scale wavelet filter, for example, a filter that simultaneously
integrates the signal over time and provides summation of a number of frequency bands
present in the signal, can convert bipolar pressure signals into monopolar signal representing
thermal energy or originally generated positive pressure.
                                              -- 21--

 [00102]     FIGS. 12A-12C provide an illustrative example of wavelet filtered N-shaped
optoacoustic signals restored to their original rectangular pressure profile by summation of all
scales corresponding to frequency ranges from low to high for five scales 1210, seven scales
 1220 and nine scales 1230.
 [00103]     In various embodiments, wavelet filtering permits enhancements of objects on the
image within certain range of dimensions. An imaging operator (ultrasonic technician or
diagnostic radiologist) typically desires to better visualize a tumor with specific dimensions
and other objects, such as blood vessels, with their specific dimensions. In an embodiment,
the wavelet filter allows the operator to apply specific selection of scales of the wavelet filter
than would enhance only objects of certain sizes and suppress object of other unimportant
sizes. In an embodiment, boundaries can be well visualized for objects of any size, so the
high-frequency wavelet scales are beneficial for the image quality and are included in the
selection of scales. In an embodiment, for a mathematically correct tomographic
reconstruction, a ramp filter can be applied to the signal, which can linearly enhance
contribution of higher frequencies.
Image Reconstruction
 [00104]     In various embodiments, image reconstruction typically uses radial back
projection of processed and filtered signals onto the image plane. However, due to the
limited field of view available from small hand-held probes, only an incomplete data set can
be obtained. As a result, the 2D optoacoustic images may include artifacts distorting the
shape and brightness of the objects displayed on the images. In an embodiment, aperture
integrated normalized radial back projection is used to correct some of the reconstruction
artifacts that are observed in limited aperture optoacoustic tomography.
 [00105]     FIG. 13 provides an illustrative diagram of radial backprojection where each
transducer element aperture is weighted and normalized for the total aperture of the
transducer array.
 [00106]     In an embodiment, Tk,-Tk.4, 1311-13 15, are the transducers 1310 in the array, Bij
is the brightness (intensity) of a pixel with coordinates (ij), coij,k 1320, 1330 is the angular
portion of optoacoustic wave front emitted by the pixel (ij) as it is visualized by the
transducer #k, Qij=l coij,k (sum of all  oij,k) is the portion of the optoacoustic wave front
emitted by pixel (ij) as it is visualized by the entire transducer array, and Sij,k is the sample
of the optoacoustic signal measured by kth transducer and used in reconstruction of the
brightness in the pixel (ij). Various backpropagation algorithms can be used to normalize an
                                                -- 22 --

optoacoustic image.
 [00107]     In an embodiment, a backpropagation algorithm can be expressed as:
                 B, = L Sk                          (1)
 [00108]    However, in at least some embodiments, aperture normalized backprojection
produces superior image results. In an embodiment, the aperture normalized backprojection
can be expressed as:
                 BL' =   I  ltSLeflLIS          (2)
100109]     FIGS. 14A and 14B provide an illustrative example of optoacoustic
tomographraphic images 1410 and 1420 of an imaging slice through a tumor angiogenesis
model. In the first image 1410, a backpropagation algorithm, such as the first algorithm
immediately above, is used to normalize the image. The resulting image has strong, bright
arc-shaped artifacts 1412 around the blood vessels 1414 that are close to array surface. In the
second image 1420, aperture normalized backprojection algorithm, such as the second
algorithm immediately above, is used to normalize the image. As can be seen, the aperture
normalized backprojection algorithm corrects image brightness and reduces the arc-shaped
artifacts.
 [00110]    FIGS. 15A and 15B provide an illustrative example of optoacoustic tomographic
images 1510 and 1520 of a point spread function as visualized with flat linear probe using
 1510 a backpropagation algorithm, such as the first algorithm immediately above, and 1520
an aperture normalized backprojection algorithm, such as the second algorithm immediately
above. As can be seen, the aperture normalized backprojection algorithm corrects image
brightness and reduces artifacts.
Image Processingand Display
 [00111]    In an embodiment, the optoacoustic image palette is equalized to diminish effects
of light distribution within tissue. Such equalization transforms the dynamic range of
optoacoustic images for better visualization of both shallow and deep objects.
 [00112]    FIGS. 16A and 16B provide an illustrative example of optoacoustic images 1610
and 1620 of a phantom with hairs embedded at different depths where the first image 1610
was created using a an embodiment of a standard palette and the second image 1620 was
created using an embodiment of a depth-normalized palette. As can be seen, utilizing the
depth-normalized palette enhances visibility of deep objects in the illustrated embodiment.
 [00113]    In an embodiment, principal component analysis (PCA) on a single optoacoustic
image acquisition (different channels) is used to remove cross-correlated signal noise.
                                             --  23   -

Principal component analysis on a dataset of optoacoustic signals can remove correlated
image clutter. Principal component analysis on optoacoustic frames can also remove
correlated image clutter.
[00114]      FIGS. 17A and 17B provide an illustrative example of optoacoustic images 1710
and 1720 of a phantom of a spherical simulated tumor obtained with flat linear probe. The
first image 1710 is a raw image that was not subjected to principal component analysis
processing. The second image 1720 has been subjected to principal component analysis
processing with first principal component deconvolution. As can be seen, utilizing principal
component analysis processing enhances image quality by, inter alia, reducing artifacts.
[00115]      In an embodiment, design features of signal and image processing of the present
disclosure can be summarized in the Table 2 as follows:
Table 2. Summary of signal and image processing.
   System Feature                                     Advantages
Operator-assisted      Can improve quantitative optoacoustic diagnostics by evaluating the
boundary tracking on diagnostic parameters within the tumor boundary defined on US images
ultrasonic and         Diagnostics can be enhanced by morphological analysis of the tumor
optoacoustic images boundary
Aperture integrated    Corrects some of the reconstruction artifacts that are observed in a
normalized radial      limited aperture optoacoustic tomography
back projection
Equalization of the    Transforms dynamic range of optoacoustic images for better
optoacoustic image     visualization of both shallow and deep objects
palette to diminish
effects of light
distribution within
the tissue
Principal component PCA on a single optoacoustic acquisition (different channels) is a fast
analysis (PCA) of the and efficient way to remove cross-correlated signal noise
optoacoustic signal    PCA on a dataset of optoacoustic signals removes correlated image
data                   clutter
                       PCA on optoacoustic frames removes correlated image clutter
                                             -- 24 --

Optoacoustic            Cancer diagnostics based on those parameters or a single malignancy
imaging system with index (tHb*water/oxygenation) with respect to average background
quantitative
assessment of total
hemoglobin, blood
oxygenation, and
water
Wavelet transform        - Operator can easily select the maximum size of the objects to be
that enhances images enhanced on the image. Everything larger will be filtered out
of objects within
certain dimension
range
Adaptive beam-           - Allows individual reconstruction on a family of radial wavelet sub
forming for             bands
optoacoustic imaging
DiagnosticImage Reprocessing
[00116]      The principles of functional diagnostic imaging can be based on the tumor
pathophysiology. For example, malignant tumors have enhanced concentration of the total
hemoglobin and reduced level of oxygen saturation in the hemoglobin of blood. In an
embodiment, optoacoustic images can be reprocessed and converted into, inter alia, images
of (i) the total hemoglobin [tHb] and (ii) the oxygen saturation of hemoglobin [S02]. FIG. 18
demonstrates an example of two breast tumors
[00117]      FIG. 18 shows a diagram illustrating tumor differentiation based on absorption
coefficients at two wavelengths, 755 nm, 1810, and 1064 nm, 1820, which match the local
maximum (757 nm) and minimum (1064 nm) of the ratio of absorption by hemoglobin
(hypoxic blood) to absorption by oxyhemoglobin. As can be seen, a malignant tumor, 1830,
has a higher absorption coefficient at 757 nm than a benign tumor, 1840, whereas the benign
tumor, 1840, has a higher absorption coefficient at 1064 nm than a malignant tumor, 1830.
[00118]      FIG. 19 illustrates tumor differentiation by optoacoustic imaging based on
absorption coefficients at two wavelengths 1910 and 1920 in a phantom. At 757 nm, 1920, a
model of a malignant tumor is clearly visible, 1922, whereas the model of the malignant
tumor, 1922, is not visible at 1064 nm, 1910.
                                              -- 25 --

[00119]      FIG. 20A shows an optoacoustic image of two intersecting tubes filled with blood
having different levels of blood [S02] (98% in the left tube, and 31 % in the right tube). The
tubes were placed in 1%fat milk with optical properties similar to those found in the human
breast. The wavelength of laser illumination used for this image is 1064 nm. FIG. 20B
shows a photograph of an experimental setup that includes artificial blood vessels placed in
milk solution and imaged using arc-shaped optoacoustic probe. FIG. 20C shows coregistered
2D cross-sectional anatomical and functional images of blood vessel tubes showing six image
panels: (1-upper left) ultrasound image depicting anatomy of the body with vessels; (2-upper
right) optoacoustic image obtained at the wavelength of 757 nm; (3-lower right) optoacoustic
image obtained at the wavelength of 1064 nm; (4-lower left) functional image of the total
hemoglobin [tHb]; (5-lower center) functional image of the blood oxygen saturation [S02];
(6-upper center) functional image of the blood oxygen saturation presented only in the area of
maximum concentration of the total hemoglobin. Raw optoacoustic images depicted in FIG.
20C in the upper right and lower right panels demonstrate different brightness of blood
vessels having blood with different level of the total hemoglobin concentration [tHb] and
blood oxygen saturation [S02], accurate quantitative measurements could be performed
under conditions of normalized fluence of the optical illumination of tissue in the body as a
function of depth. These optoacoustic images were used to reconstruct functional images of
the total hemoglobin [tHb] and the blood oxygenation [S02]. All functional images
displayed in FIG. 20C are coregistered and superimposed with the anatomical image of tissue
structure for better correlation of features.
[00120]      FIGS. 21A and 21B show optoacoustic signal amplitude as a function of blood
oxygen saturation (with constant hematocrit) under laser illumination at the wavelength of
1064 nm in FIG. 21A and at 757 nm in FIG. 21B. These plots illustrate that blood oxygen
saturation can be monitored with optoacoustic imaging. Specifically, this embodiment
illustrates quantitative data based on measurements of the optoacoustic signal amplitude in
blood having various levels of oxygen saturation (from 30% to 98%) and hematocrit of 38
g/dL of hemoglobin [tHb] in erythrocytes. As predicted by the published absorption spectra
of blood, the optoacoustic signal amplitude at 1064 nm illumination increases with increased
                                              -- 26 --

level of oxygen saturation, while the optoacoustic signal amplitude decreases with increased
blood oxygenation at 757 nm illumination wavelength.
[00121]     FIG. 22 illustrates optical absorption spectra of the main tissue chromophores
absorbing optical energy in the near-infrared range: hemoglobin, oxyhemoglobin and water.
Preferred laser wavelengths for functional imaging are 757 nm and 1064 nm matching max
and min ratio of [HHb]/[02Hb], while the wavelength of 800 nm is the best for calibration
purposes through measurements of the total hemoglobin [tHb].
[00122]     FIGS. 23A and 23B illustrate coregistered functional and anatomical imaging of
breast tumors in phantoms accurately replicating optical and acoustic properties of an average
breast with tumors. FIG. 23A shows 2D images of: model of malignant tumor morphology
based on ultrasound (left), the same anatomical image coregistered with functional image of
the total hemoglobin concentration (center) and with functional image of the blood
oxygenation (right). FIG. 23B shows 2D images of a model benign tumor: morphology
image based on ultrasound (left), the same anatomical image coregistered with functional
image of the total hemoglobin concentration (center) and with functional image of the blood
oxygenation (right).
[00123]     FIGS. 24A and 24B illustrate coregistered functional and anatomical imaging of
breast tumors. FIG. 24A shows 2D images of invasive ductal carcinoma, a malignant tumor
with rough boundaries, heterogeneous morphology, high concentration of total hemoglobin
and low oxygen saturation (hypoxia). The malignant tumor morphology is based on
ultrasound in the left image, and the same anatomical image coregistered with functional
image of the blood oxygenation in the center image and with functional image of the total
hemoglobin concentration in the right image. FIG. 24B shows 2D images of a breast with
Fibroadenoma, a benign tumor with relatively round boundaries, normal concentration of
oxyhemoglobin and relatively low total hemoglobin. Breast morphology is based on
ultrasound in the left image, and the same anatomical image is coregistered with a functional
image of the blood oxygenation in the center image and with a functional image of the total
hemoglobin concentration in the right image.
                                              -- 27 --

 Conclusion
 [00124]      While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning computers and
 computer systems, various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing
product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type
 of machine or computer-readable media used to actually effect the distribution.
 [00125]     At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied, at least in part, in software.
 That is, the techniques described herein may be carried out in a special purpose or general
purpose computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor, such as
 a microprocessor, executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory, such as ROM,
 volatile RAM, non-volatile memory, cache or a remote storage device.
 [00126]      Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of
 an operating system, firmware, ROM, middleware, service delivery platform, SDK (Software
 Development Kit) component, web services, or other specific application, component,
program, object, module or sequence of instructions referred to as "computer programs."
 Invocation interfaces to these routines can be exposed to a software development community
 as an API (Application Programming Interface). The computer programs typically comprise
 one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a
 computer, and that, when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer, cause
 the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various
 aspects.
 [00127]     A machine-readable medium can be used to store software and data which when
 executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The
 executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM,
volatile RAM, non-volatile memory and/or cache. Portions of this software and/or data may
be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further, the data and instructions can be
 obtained from centralized servers or peer-to-peer networks. Different portions of the data and
 instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and/or peer-to-peer networks
 at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication
 session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the
 applications. Alternatively, portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically,
just in time, when needed for execution. Thus, it is not required that the data and instructions
be on a machine-readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.
                                               -- 28--

[00128]      Examples of computer-readable media include but are not limited to recordable
and non-recordable type media such as volatile and non-volatile memory devices, read only
memory (ROM), random access memory (RAM), flash memory devices, floppy and other
removable disks, magnetic disk storage media, optical storage media (e.g., Compact Disk
Read-Only Memory (CD ROMS), Digital Versatile Disks (DVDs), etc.), among others.
[00129]      In general, a machine readable medium includes any mechanism that provides
(e.g., stores) information in a form accessible by a machine (e.g., a computer, network device,
personal digital assistant, manufacturing tool, any device with a set of one or more
processors, etc.).
[00130]      In various embodiments, hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with
software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus, the techniques are neither limited to
any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for
the instructions executed by the data processing system.
[00131]      Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular
order, operations that are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be
combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically
mentioned, others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present
an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover, it should be recognized that the stages could be
implemented in hardware, firmware, software or any combination thereof.
[00132]      In the foregoing specification, the disclosure has been described with reference to
specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be
made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following
claims. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative
sense rather than a restrictive sense.
[00133]      In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used
in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
[00134]      It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
                                                -- 29 --

CLAIMS
 1.     An optoacoustic imaging system comprising:
        ultrasonic transducers configured to detect ultrasonic signals resulting from selective
absorption of a first optical pulse and a second optical pulse in hemoglobin and
oxyhemoglobin of blood contained in a tissue;
        a processing system configured to receive data from the ultrasonic transducers and to
generated from the received data:
                a first functional image reflecting distribution of total hemoglobin
        concentration;
                a second functional image reflecting distribution of blood oxygen saturation;
        and
                a morphological image of structures in the tissue;
        the processing system being further configured to substantially co-register the first
functional image, the second functional image, and the morphological image in time and
space, and to output a substantially co-registered image.
2.      The optoacoustic imaging system of claim 1, wherein the processing system is configured
to present images substantially in real time by operating at a video frame rate.
3.      The optoacoustic imaging system of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the ultrasonic
transducers comprise ultrasonic transducers having an ultrawide ultrasonic frequency band of
sensitivity, with bandwidth of up to 200% from the central frequency.
4.      A method for coregistered functional and anatomical mapping of tissue, the method
                                              -- 30 --

comprising:
        a) detecting ultrasonic signals resulting from selective absorption of a plurality of
optical pulses in hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin of blood contained in the tissue;
        b) processing detected ultrasonic signals to remove noise, to revert signal alterations
in the course of signal propagation through tissue and through the detection system
components, and to restore a temporal shape and ultrasonic spectrum of the original signals;
        c) generating morphological images of tissue structures coregistered and
superimposed with partially transparent functional images reflecting total hemoglobin
concentration and blood oxygen saturation; and
        d) repeating steps a) to c) at a video frame rate such that real-time images display
tissue functional and morphological changes substantially as they occur.
5.      The method of claim 4, in which the plurality of optical pulses comprises four optical
pulses each having different spectral bands of electromagnetic radiation that are sequentially
delivered to the tissue.
6.      The method of claim 4 or claim 5, in which the spectral band of a first optical pulse
matches a local maximum peak of hemoglobin absorption around 757 nm and a second
optical pulse matches a spectral range around 1064 nm corresponding to a maximum ratio in
the optical absorption of oxyhemoglobin to that of hemoglobin.
7.      The method of any one of claims 4 to 6, further comprising indicating tumor
differentiation based at least in part on absorption coefficients measured in the tumor at first
and second wavelengths.
                                              -- 31 --

8.       The method of claim 7, wherein indicating tumor differentiation comprises displaying
either:
         i) a relatively smooth shape of a tumor, or tissue surrounding a tumor, superimposed
with relatively low elevation in concentration of the total hemoglobin and normal blood
oxygen saturation to indicate a benign tumor, or
         ii) displaying a rough shape of a tumor, or tissue surrounding the tumor,
superimposed with high elevation in the total hemoglobin and low blood oxygen saturation to
indicate a malignant tumor.
9.       The method of any one of claims 4 to 8, further comprising:
         renormalizing an image display palette by reducing relative brightness of image pixels
corresponding to the tissue's surface, thereby amplifying relative brightness of pixels
corresponding to larger depths in tissue, so as to make objects located at larger depths visible
with greater contrast.
10.      The method of any one of claims 4 to 9, wherein processing detected ultrasonic
signals to revert signal alterations comprises deconvolution of a hardware transfer function to
obtain intrinsic optoacoustic amplitude and profile of the detected ultrasonic signals and
distribution of an optical absorption coefficient in the tissue.
 11.     An imaging system for visualization of slices into the depth of tissue of at least a
 portion of a body, comprising:
     a hand-held imaging probe comprising a light emitting portion and an array of ultrasonic
     transducers;
     a processing system configured to receive data originating from the hand-held imaging
                                              -- 32 --

    probe and to process at least three independent images based at least in part upon said
    data, the three independent images together comprising:
        a first functional image reflecting distribution of total hemoglobin concentration;
        a second functional image reflecting distribution of blood oxygen saturation; and
        a morphological image of tissue structures;
    the processing system being further configured to substantially co-register the first
    functional image, the second functional image, and the morphological image in time and
    space, and to output a substantially co-registered image.
12.     An imaging method for coregistered functional and anatomical mapping of tissue of at
     least a portion of a body, comprising:
    a) delivering ultrasonic pulses into the tissue and detecting backscattered ultrasonic
        signals reflected from structural tissue boundaries associated with body morphology;
    b) sequentially delivering to the tissue at least two optical pulses having different
        spectral bands of electromagnetic energy and detecting transient ultrasonic signals
        resulting from selective absorption of each of the at least two optical pulses in
        hemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin of blood contained in tissues;
    c) processing detected ultrasonic signals to remove noise, to revert signal alterations in
        the course of signal propagation through tissue and through the detection system
        components, and to restore a temporal shape and ultrasonic spectrum of the original
        signals;
    d) performing image reconstruction and further processing to generate morphological
        images of tissue structures coregistered and superimposed with partially transparent
        functional images reflecting total hemoglobin concentration and blood oxygen
        saturation; and,
                                              -- 33 --

e) repeating steps a) through d) at a video frame rate such that real-time images display
   tissue functional and morphological changes substantially as they occur.
                                         -- 34 --

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
