   1002123110
   ABSTRACT
   Some embodiments concurrently display, on a display, a plurality of selectable options that
   correspond to proposed times for an appointment and a selectable item for showing
   additional times for the appointment. The selectable item for showing additional times for
 5 the appointment is smaller in size than a selectable option of the plurality of selectable
   options. In response to receiving a user selection of the selectable item, one of the plurality
   of selectable options is replaced with a further selectable option that corresponds to an
   additional time for the appointment at which all proposed attendees are available to attend
   the appointment, wherein the additional time is different from the proposed times of the
10 plurality of selectable options.

   1002123110
                     INTELLIGENT APPOINTMENT SUGGESTIONS
                                           BACKGROUND
   [0001]      In the modern world, people regularly use electronic scheduling or calendar
   applications to keep track of their appointments. These calendar applications operate on both
 5 mobile devices (e.g., tablets, smart phones) as well as personal computers (e.g., laptops,
   desktops). In some cases, the user may synchronize their calendars across platforms (e.g.,
   through a centralized server or a cloud storage account). As these calendar applications
   become more ubiquitous, further improvements to make the applications easier to use are
   desired.
10 [0001A]         Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is
   PCT/US2015/033271         (published as WO 2015/184314), filed on 29 May 2015.
                                         BRIEF SUMMARY
   [0001B]         According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method
15 comprising: at a portable electronic device with a display and one or more input devices:
   receiving, via the one or more input devices, a request to select a time for an appointment that
   includes a set of proposed attendees; in response to the request to select the time for the
   appointment, concurrently displaying, on the display, a plurality of selectable options that
   correspond to proposed times for the appointment and a selectable item for showing
20 additional times for the appointment, wherein: the proposed times for the appointment are
   based on calendars of the proposed attendees; the selectable item for showing additional
   times for the appointment is smaller in size a selectable option of the plurality of selectable
   options; and the plurality of selectable options that are concurrently displayed on the display
   includes: a first selectable option that corresponds to a first time for the appointment at which
25 all proposed attendees, including an organizer of the appointment, are available to attend the
   appointment; a second selectable option that corresponds to a second time for the
   appointment at which a subset of the proposed attendees are available to attend the
   appointment and one or more of the proposed attendees are not available to attend the
   appointment; receiving, via the one or more input devices, user selection of the selectable
30 item for showing additional times for the appointment; and in response to receiving the user
                                                    1

   1002123110
   selection of the selectable item for showing additional times for the appointment, while
   maintaining display of the first selectable option on the display, replacing display of the
   second selectable option with a third selectable option that corresponds to a third time for the
   appointment at which all proposed attendees, including the organizer of the appointment, are
 5 available to attend the appointment, wherein the third time is different from the first time.
   [0001C]         According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a machine
   readable medium storing a program which when executed by at least one processing unit
   creates an appointment for an electronic calendar application of a portable electronic device
   with a display and one or more input devices, the program comprising sets of instructions for:
10 receiving, via the one or more input devices, a request to select a time for an appointment that
   includes a set of proposed attendees; in response to the request to select the time for the
   appointment, concurrently displaying, on the display, a plurality of selectable options that
   correspond to proposed times for the appointment and a selectable item for showing
   additional times for the appointment, wherein: the proposed times for the appointment are
15 based on calendars of the proposed attendees; the selectable item for showing additional
   times for the appointment is smaller in size than a selectable option of the plurality of
   selectable options; and the plurality of selectable options that are concurrently displayed on
   the display includes: a first selectable option that corresponds to a first time for the
   appointment at which all proposed attendees, including an organizer of the appointment, are
20 available to attend the appointment; a second selectable option that corresponds to a second
   time for the appointment at which a subset of the proposed attendees are available to attend
   the appointment and one or more of the proposed attendees are not available to attend the
   appointment; receiving, via the one or more input devices, user selection of the selectable
   item for showing additional times for the appointment; and in response to receiving the user
25 selection of the selectable item for showing additional times for the appointment, while
   maintaining display of the first selectable option on the display, replacing display of the
   second selectable option with a third selectable option that corresponds to a third time for the
   appointment at which all proposed attendees, including the organizer of the appointment, are
   available to attend the appointment, wherein the third time is different from the first time.
30 [0001D]         According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a portable
   electronic device, comprising: a display; one or more input devices; a set of processing units;
   and a machine readable medium storing a program which when executed by at least one of
   the processing units creates an appointment for an electronic calendar application of the
                                                     2

   1002123110
   portable electronic device, the program comprising sets of instructions for: receiving, via the
   one or more input devices, a request to select a time for an appointment that includes a set of
   proposed attendees; in response to the request to select the time for the appointment,
   concurrently displaying, on the display, a plurality of selectable options that correspond to
 5 proposed times for the appointment and a selectable item for showing additional times for the
   appointment, wherein: the proposed times for the appointment are based on calendars of the
   proposed attendees; the selectable item for showing additional times for the appointment is
   smaller in size than a selectable option of the plurality of selectable options; and the plurality
   of selectable options that are concurrently displayed on the display includes: a first selectable
10 option that corresponds to a first time for the appointment at which all proposed attendees,
   including an organizer of the appointment, are available to attend the appointment; a second
   selectable option that corresponds to a second time for the appointment at which a subset of
   the proposed attendees are available to attend the appointment and one or more of the
   proposed attendees are not available to attend the appointment; receiving, via the one or more
15 input devices, user selection of the selectable item for showing additional times for the
   appointment; and in response to receiving the user selection of the selectable item for
   showing additional times for the appointment, while maintaining display of the first
   selectable option on the display, replacing display of the second selectable option with a third
   selectable option that corresponds to a third time for the appointment at which all proposed
20 attendees, including the organizer of the appointment, are available to attend the appointment,
   wherein the third time is different from the first time.
   [0002]      Some embodiments provide a calendar application with one or more of several
   novel features. In some embodiments, the calendar application operates on a mobile device
   (e.g., a smart phone, tablet, etc.) with a touchscreen display. The calendar application of some
25 embodiments enables a user to modify the time scale of calendar layouts through gestural
   touch input. In addition, some embodiments allow users to specify a particular time zone for
   an appointment. When the application displays a calendar layout for a different time zone, the
   application provides information regarding the specified time zone as part of a representation
   of the appointment in the calendar layout. In addition, the calendar application of some
30 embodiments provides support for commenting within a new messages inbox, both in the
   presentation of comments sent to a user of the calendar application by invitees for
   appointments organized by the user, as well as providing the user with the ability to more
   easily comment on appointments to which the user has been invited. The calendar application
                                                    3

   1002123110
   of some embodiments additionally provides support for identifying an optimal time to set up
   an appointment, by accessing the calendars of invitees and identifying which invitees are not
   available at proposed appointment times, as well as proposing times at which the invitees are
   available. Lastly, the calendar application of some embodiments automatically analyzes the
 5 past history of a user's calendar in order to propose new appointments for the user.
   [0003]       As mentioned, some embodiments provide the ability for a user of the calendar
   application to modify the time scale of calendar layouts through gestural touch input.
   Specifically, the user either increases or decreases the time scale (i.e., the amount of the
   display screen occupied by one hour of the calendar), thereby correspondingly increasing or
10 decreasing the size of representations of appointments in the calendar. In some embodiments,
   the user provides multi-touch gestural input in order to perform the resizing of the time scale
   in the calendar layout. As the user increases the size of the representations, some
   embodiments display additional information about the appointment in the representation
   (e.g., a location of the appointment, attendees of the appointment, etc.). In some
15 embodiments, as the user decreases the size of the representations, the application modifies
   the size of the text in the representation of the appointment. At a certain point, for short (e.g.,
   15 minute or 30 minute) appointments, rather than display unreadable text, the application
   removes the text from the calendar layout altogether.
   [0004]       When users specify time zone information for an appointment, the calendar
20 application of some embodiments incorporates this information into the representation of the
   appointment in the calendar layout. When creating an event, a user may specify a time zone
   for the event (e.g., the time zone in which the event will take place). The calendar
   application, in some embodiments, displays representations of the user's appointments
   according to the time zone in which the mobile device running the application is located. As a
25 result, in some cases the calendar application displays the calendar in a first time zone, while
   displaying a representation for an appointment for which a second time zone is specified. In
   such cases, some embodiments display the representation at its corresponding time in the first
   time zone, but indicate within the representation the second time zone and the specified time
   in that second time zone for the appointment.
30 [0005]       As indicated, the calendar application of some embodiments provides support for
   commenting within a new messages inbox. Specifically, the application of some
   embodiments aggregates both new messages inviting the user of the application to
   appointments as well as messages regarding appointments organized by the user of the
                                                     4

   1002123110
   application (e.g., invitees commenting on and/or declining the appointment). When multiple
   invitees have commented on and/or declined the appointment, some embodiments aggregate
   these communications into a single entry in the user interface. In some embodiments, the user
   can select one of these messages (or aggregated sets of messages) to view further detailed
 5 information about the appointment, including information indicating (i) whether invitees have
   responded, (ii) what the invitees' responses indicated, and (iii) whether the invitees had
   comments about the appointment. In addition, some embodiments provide a separate
   selectable item for each of the messages (or aggregated sets of messages) to access a page
   with more detailed information about the invitees of the appointment. This page, in some
10 embodiments, also provides indication as to which invitees have responded, as well as
   indicators (e.g., graphical indicators) about whether responding invitees indicated they will
   attend. In addition, the page provides the full text of any comments the invitees may have had
   regarding the appointment.
   [0006]       When a user of the calendar application declines an appointment (through an
15 invitation message in the same inbox in some embodiments), the application automatically
   provides the user with the ability to add a comment to a communication that will be sent to
   the organizer of the appointment, rather than sending the communication right away. The user can
   then type in a comment (e.g., through a touchscreen keyboard), and accept or decline other
   invitations present in the inbox. The calendar application holds off on sending the
20 communications indicating acceptance/declining of an invitation until the user provides input
   indicating that she has completed actions in the inbox (e.g., by returning to the calendar
   layout).
   [0007]       The application of some embodiments further provides information regarding the
   availability of proposed participants for a new appointment, to aid in scheduling the appointment.
25 In some embodiments, when a user enters a new invitee for an appointment (for which the
   user is the organizer), the application automatically accesses the invitee's calendar (e.g., by
   accessing a server) and displays an indicator (e.g., a graphical indicator) that indicates
   whether or not the invitee is available at an initially scheduled time for the appointment. When
   the application cannot access a particular invitee's calendar (e.g., because the server is inaccessible
30 or the application does not have the required permissions), then the application displays an indicator
   that the invitee's availability is unknown. Once the user has finished adding invitees for the
   appointment, the application identifies any scheduling conflicts and proposes additional new
   times at which the invitees are available. Some embodiments display (i) the invitees that are not
                                                      5

   1002123110
   available at the currently scheduled time for the appointment, (ii) at least one upcoming time at
   which all invitees (and the organizer of the meeting), and (iii) upcoming times at which various
   subsets of the invitees are available. The application presents selectable items for each of these
   upcoming times, enabling the organizer to select the time as a new time for the appointment, or
 5 to view the appointment in her calendar at the upcoming time.
   [0008]       In addition to analyzing the calendars of invitees to determine upcoming times for
   an appointment, some embodiments provide a new appointment feature that analyzes the past
   calendar history of a user in order to propose likely appointments for the user, with
   appointment details. When the user selects a quick appointment feature in the calendar
10 application, the application generates the set of likely appointments. In some embodiments,
   the application provides a first option for the user to name an appointment which will be
   created at the first open time slot in the user's calendar, without any additional details (i.e., for
   the user to fill in the details). In addition, the application provides one or more selectable items for
   proposed appointments at various upcoming times, with additional appointment details already
15 specified.
   [0009]       The calendar application of some embodiments identifies patterns (e.g., recurring
   meetings) in the user's past calendar history, then proposes appointments that continue such
   patterns. For example, if the user has had an appointment with the same name at the same time
   on the same day of the week for the past several weeks, then the application proposes an
20 appointment with that name at the same time on the next occurrence of the particular day of
   the week. If the recurring time is occupied by a different appointment, then the application of
   some embodiments identifies a nearby time (e.g., just before or just after) and proposes the new
   appointment at the nearby time. If additional details (e.g., the location, invitee list, etc.) are the same
   or similar throughout the recurrences, the application uses these additional details for the proposed
25 appointment. Similarly, the application might identify appointments held every other week,
   every day, on the same day of the month for several months, etc. The application might identify
   other patterns, such as the same set of invitees at numerous appointments (with numerous
   different times and appointment names), and propose a new appointment for the set of invitees
   at the next available time. Once the user selects a proposed appointment, the application adds
30 this appointment to the calendar of the user, and the user can edit the details (e.g., change the
   time, invitees, location, etc.) before sending invitations to the appointment to the finalized list
   of invitees.
                                                           6

   1002123110
   [0010]      The preceding Summary is intended to serve as a brief introduction to some
   embodiments of the invention. It is not meant to be an introduction or overview of all inventive
   subject matter disclosed in this document. The Detailed Description that follows and the
   Drawings that are referred to in the Detailed Description further describe the embodiments
 5 described in the Summary as well as other embodiments. Accordingly, to understand all the
   embodiments described by this document, a full review of the Summary, the Detailed
   Description, and the Drawings is needed. Moreover, the claimed subject matters are not to be
   limited by the illustrative details in the Summary, the Detailed Description, and the
   Drawings, but rather are to be defined by the appended claims, because the claimed subject
10 matters can be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit of the
   subject matters.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0011]      The novel features of the invention are set forth in the appended claims.
   However, for purposes of explanation, several embodiments of the invention are set forth in
15 the following figures.
   [0012]      Figure 1 illustrates a graphical user interface (GUI) of a calendar application of
   some embodiments as a user increases the time scale (i.e., increases the portion of the layout
   occupied by a unit of time), then returns the GUI to a default time scale.
   [0013]      Figure 2 illustrates the maintaining of a modified time scale for different days of a
20 calendar layout.
   [0014]      Figure 3 illustrates the GUI as the user decreases the time scale (i.e., decreases the
   portion of the layout occupied by a unit of time).
   [0015]      Figure 4 illustrates a landscape orientation GUI of a calendar application of
   [0035]some embodiments as a user increases the time scale, then decreases the time scale,
25 then returns to the default time scale by providing various touch inputs.
   [0016]      Figure 5 conceptually illustrates a state diagram that shows states and changes
   between states for the calendar layout GUI of some embodiments.
   [0017]      Figure 6 illustrates a user modifying the time zone for a new event.
   [0018]      Figures 7 and 8 illustrate the calendar layout GUI of some embodiments in two
30 different circumstances for the same calendar.
                                                    7

   1002123110
   [0019]      Figure 9 conceptually illustrates a process of some embodiments for displaying
   appointment representations in a calendar layout.
   [0020]       [Figure 10 illustrates a user accessing the calendar message user interface of some
   embodiments.
 5 [0021]      Figure 11 illustrates an example of a user declining an appointment and
   commenting on the appointment in the calendar message user interface of some
   embodiments.
   [0022]      Figure 12 illustrates a user declining multiple appointments in the calendar
   messages GUI.
10 [0023]      Figure 13 illustrates the same flow as Figure 12, except that the user accepts one
   of the invitations rather than declining it.
   [0024]      Figure 14 conceptually illustrates a state diagram that shows states and changes
   between states for the calendar message GUI of some embodiments.
   [0025]      Figures 15 and 16 illustrate the creation of an appointment, and specifically     the
15 addition of invitees to an appointment while creating the appointment.
   [0026]      Figure 17 conceptually illustrates a process for displaying a graphical indicator
   when an invitee is added to an appointment.
   [0027]      Figures 18 and 19 illustrate an invitee scheduling GUI of some embodiments for
   displaying scheduling conflicts and alternate times for a new appointment.
20 [00281      Figure 20 illustrates the use of a selectable item for viewing a proposed alternate
   time in the user's calendar.
   [00291      Figure 21 illustrates the selection of an alternate proposed time, and the effect
               thereof on the invitee scheduling GUI.
   [00301      Figure 22 conceptually illustrates a process of some embodiments for
25 generating and preparing proposed times for display in the scheduling GUI.
   [00311      Figure 23 illustrates an appointment organizer e-mailing all of the invitees of
   an appointment.
   [00321      Figure 24 illustrates a monthly view GUI of a user's schedule.
                                                     8

   1002123110
   [00331     Figures 25 and 26 illustrate the generation of new appointment options in a
   daily view GUI of some embodiments.
   [00341     Figures 27A-B illustrate the selection of one of the proposed appointment
   options and the subsequent creation of a new appointment in the user's calendar.
 5 [00351     Figure 28 conceptually illustrates a process of some embodiments for
   automatically generating proposed appointments upon receipt of an input to create a new
   appointment.
   [00361     Figure 29, like Figure 24, illustrates a monthly view GUI of a user's schedule.
   [00371     Figures 30 and 31 illustrate the generation of proposed new appointment
10 options in a daily view GUI of some embodiments based on user text input.
   [00381     Figure 32 illustrates the selection of one of the proposed appointment items
   and the resulting creation of a new appointment in the user's calendar.
   [00391     Figure 33 conceptually illustrates a process of some embodiments for
   automatically generating proposed appointments based on matching text input to a user's
15 past calendar appointment history.
   [00401     Figure 34 is an example of an architecture of a mobile computing device of
   some embodiments.
   [00411     Figure 35 conceptually illustrates an example of an electronic system with
              which some embodiments of the invention are implemented.
20                                    Detailed Description
   [00421     In the following detailed description of the invention, numerous details,
   examples, and embodiments of the invention are set forth and described. However, it will
   be clear and apparent to one skilled in the art that the invention is not limited to the
   embodiments set forth and that the invention may be practiced without some of the
25 specific details and examples discussed.
   [00431      Some embodiments provide a calendar application with one or more of several
   novel features. In some embodiments, the calendar application operates on a mobile
   device (e.g., a smart phone, tablet, etc.) with a touchscreen display. The calendar
   application of some embodiments enables a user to modify the time scale of calendar
30 layouts through gestural touch input. In addition, some embodiments allow users to
                                                  9

   1002123110
   specify a particular time zone for an appointment. When the application displays a
   calendar layout for a different time zone, the application provides information regarding
   the specified time zone as part of a representation of the appointment in the calendar
   layout. In addition, the calendar application of some embodiments provides support for
 5 commenting within a new messages inbox, both in the presentation of comments sent to
   a user of the calendar application by invitees for appointments organized by the user, as
   well as providing the user with the ability to more easily comment on appointments to
   which the user has been invited. The calendar application of some embodiments
   additionally provides support for identifying an optimal time to set up an appointment, by
10 accessing the calendars of invitees and identifying which invitees are not available at
   proposed appointment times, as well as proposing times at which the invitees are available.
   Lastly, the calendar application of some embodiments automatically analyzes the past
   history of a user's calendar in order to propose new appointments for the user.
   [0044]       The calendar application of some embodiments allows a user to manage
15 appointments (also referred to as events) in one or more calendars (e.g., a work calendar, a
   personal calendar, etc.). In some embodiments, each calendar is associated with a different e
   mail address of the user. Appointments are scheduled for a particular date and time in a
   particular calendar.
   [0045]       The calendar application allows a user to organize appointments and to receive
20 invitations to appointments organized by others. When organizing an appointment, the user specifies
   various details (the name, location, date and time, etc.) as well as the list of proposed
   attendees (invitees). Upon finalizing the appointment, the application sends a communication
   (e.g., an e-mail) to the invitees. When the calendar application receives such a communication
   for an appointment organized by another user of a calendar application (either the same
25 application on a different device, or a different application), the application presents the user with
   the ability to accept or decline the invitation (or respond that she is unsure of availability). When
   the user accepts the appointment, the application adds the appointment to the user's calendar.
   [0046]       A user can view her calendar in a calendar layout user interface of the calendar
   application. Such a user interface, in some embodiments, provides the user with a daily,
30 weekly, monthly, or yearly view. In some or all of these views, the application displays
   representations of the user's appointments in the calendar layout, along with information about the
   appointment (e.g., the name of the appointment). The application of some embodiments also
                                                       10

   1002123110
   provides user interfaces for the user to view details of an appointment, modify the details, create
   new appointments, view received calendar messages, etc.
   [00471      As mentioned, some embodiments provide the ability for a user of the calendar
   application to modify the time scale of calendar layouts through gestural touch input.
 5 Specifically, the user either increases or decreases the time scale (i.e., the amount of the
   display screen occupied by one hour of the calendar), thereby correspondingly increasing or
   decreasing the size of representations of appointments in the calendar. In some embodiments, the
   user provides multi-touch gestural input in order to perform the resizing of the time scale in the
   calendar layout. As the user increases the size of the representations, some embodiments
10 display additional information about the appointment in the representation (e.g., a location of
   the appointment, attendees of the appointment, etc.). In some embodiments, as the user
   decreases the size of the representations, the application modifies the size of the text in the
   representation of the appointment. At a certain point, for short (e.g., 15 minute or 30 minute)
   appointments, rather than display unreadable text, the application removes the text from
15 the calendar layout altogether.
   [00481      When users specify time zone information for an appointment, the calendar
   application of some embodiments incorporates this information into the representation of
   the appointment in the calendar layout. When creating an event, a user may specify a
   time zone for the event (e.g., the time zone in which the event will take place). The
20 calendar application, in some embodiments, displays representations of the user's
   appointments according to the time zone in which the mobile device running the
   application is located. As a result, in some cases the calendar application displays the
   calendar in a first time zone, while displaying a representation for an appointment for
   which a second time zone is specified. In such cases, some embodiments display the
25 representation at its corresponding time in the first time zone, but indicate within the
   representation the second time zone and the specified time in that second time zone for
   the appointment.
   [00491      As indicated, the calendar application of some embodiments provides support
   for commenting within a new messages inbox. Specifically, the application of some
30 embodiments aggregates both new messages inviting the user of the application to
   appointments as well as messages regarding appointments organized by the user of the
   application (e.g., invitees commenting on and/or declining the appointment). When
   multiple invitees have commented on and/or declined the appointment, some
                                                        11

   1002123110
   embodiments aggregate these communications into a single entry in the user interface. In
   some embodiments, the user can select one of these messages (or aggregated sets of
   messages) to view further detailed information about the appointment, including
   information indicating (i) whether invitees have responded, (ii) what the invitees'
 5 responses indicated, and (iii) whether the invitees had comments about the
   appointment. In addition, some embodiments provide a separate selectable item for
   each of the messages (or aggregated sets of messages) to access a page with more
   detailed information about the invitees of the appointment. This page, in some
   embodiments, also provides indication as to which invitees have responded, as well as
10 indicators (e.g., graphical indicators) about whether responding invitees indicated they
   will attend. In addition, the page provides the full text of any comments the invitees may
   have had regarding the appointment.
   [0050]       When a user of the calendar application declines an appointment (through an
   invitation message in the same inbox in some embodiments), the application
15 automatically provides the user with the ability to add a comment to a communication
   that will be sent to the organizer of the appointment, rather than sending the communication
   right away. The          user can then type in a comment (e.g., through a touchscreen
   keyboard), and accept or decline other invitations present in the inbox. The calendar application
   holds off on sending the communications indicating acceptance/declining of an invitation until the
20 user provides input indicating that she has completed actions in the inbox (e.g., by returning to
   the calendar layout).
   [0051]       The application of some embodiments further provides information regarding the
   availability of proposed participants for a new appointment, to aid in scheduling the appointment.
   In some embodiments, when a user enters a new invitee for an appointment (for which the
25 user is the organizer), the application automatically accesses the invitee's calendar (e.g., by
   accessing a server) and displays an indicator (e.g., a graphical indicator) that indicates
   whether or not the invitee is available at an initially scheduled time for the appointment. When
   the application cannot access a particular invitee's calendar (e.g., because the server is inaccessible
   or the application does not have the required permissions), then the application displays an indicator
30 that the invitee's availability is unknown. Once the user has finished adding invitees for the
   appointment, the application identifies any scheduling conflicts and proposes additional new
   times at which the invitees are available. Some embodiments display (i) the invitees that are not
   available at the currently scheduled time for the appointment, (ii) at least one upcoming time at
                                                      12

   1002123110
   which all invitees (and the organizer of the meeting), and (iii) upcoming times at which various
   subsets of the invitees are available. The application presents selectable items for each of these
   upcoming times, enabling the organizer to select the time as a new time for the appointment, or
   to view the appointment in her calendar at the upcoming time.
 5 [0052]        In addition to analyzing the calendars of invitees to determine upcoming times for
   an appointment, some embodiments provide a new appointment feature that analyzes the past
   calendar history of a user in order to propose likely appointments for the user, with
   appointment details. When the user selects a quick appointment feature in the calendar
   application, the application generates the set of likely appointments. In some embodiments, the
10 application provides a first option for the user to name an appointment which will be created at
   the first open time slot in the user's calendar, without any additional details (i.e., for the user to
   fill in the details). In addition, the application provides one or more selectable items for proposed
   appointments at various upcoming times, with additional appointment details already specified.
   [0053]        The calendar application of some embodiments identifies patterns (e.g., recurring
15 meetings) in the user's past calendar history, then proposes appointments that continue such
   patterns. For example, if the user has had an appointment with the same name at the same time
   on the same day of the week for the past several weeks, then the application proposes an
   appointment with that name at the same time on the next occurrence of the particular day of
   the week. If the recurring time is occupied by a different appointment, then the application of
20 some embodiments identifies a nearby time (e.g., just before or just after) and proposes the new
   appointment at the nearby time. If additional details (e.g., the location, invitee list, etc.) are the same
   or similar throughout the recurrences, the application uses these additional details for the proposed
   appointment. Similarly, the application might identify appointments held every other week,
   every day, on the same day of the month for several months, etc. The application might identify
25 other patterns, such as the same set of invitees at numerous appointments (with numerous
   different times and appointment names), and propose a new appointment for the set of invitees
   at the next available time. Once the user selects a proposed appointment, the application adds
   this appointment to the calendar of the user, and the user can edit the details (e.g., change the
   time, invitees, location, etc.) before sending invitations to the appointment to the finalized list
30 of invitees.
   [0054]        The above paragraphs describe examples of the novel calendar application
   features of some embodiments. Several more detailed examples are described below. Section I
   describes the modifying the time scale of a calendar layout of some embodiments. Section II
                                                         13

   1002123110
   then describes the use of time zone information for appointments and the display of that
   information in the calendar layout of some embodiments. Next, Section III describes features that
   enable the user to easily comment on appointment invitations in some embodiments, while
   Section IV describes features of the calendar application of some embodiments for scheduling
 5 appointments based on participant availability. Section V describes a feature of the calendar
   application of some embodiments for automatically suggesting new appointments based on a
   user's calendar history. Finally, Section VI describes electronic systems with which some
   embodiments of the invention are implemented.
   L        Resizing a Calendar Layout
10 [0055]       [As mentioned, the calendar application of some embodiments provides the ability
   for a user to modify the time scale of calendar layouts displayed in the user interface of the
   application through gestural touch input. Specifically, the user either increases or decreases
   the time scale (i.e., the amount of the display screen occupied by one hour or other unit of
   time of the calendar), thereby correspondingly increasing or decreasing the size of
15 representations of appointments in the calendar. In some embodiments, the user provides multi
   touch gestural input in order to perform the resizing of the time scale in the calendar layout. As
   the user increases the size of the representations, some embodiments display additional
   information about the appointment in the representation (e.g., a location of the appointment,
   attendees of the appointment, etc.). In some embodiments, as the user decreases the size of the
20 representations, the application modifies the size of the text in the representation of the
   appointment. At a certain point, for short (e.g., 15 minute or 30 minute) appointments, rather than
   display unreadable text, the application removes the text from the calendar layout altogether.
   [0056]       Figure 1 illustrates a graphical user interface (GUI) 100 of a calendar application
   of some embodiments as user input increases the time scale (i.e., increases the portion of the
25 layout occupied by a unit of time), then returns the GUI to a default time scale over six stages 105
   130. Specifically, in the second and third stages 110 and 115, the user provides multi-touch
   gestural input to increase the time scale, while in the fifth stage 125 the user provides a different
   touch input to return to the default time scale.
   [0057]       The first stage 105 illustrates the calendar layout GUI 100 of some embodiments.
30 In some embodiments, the application operates on a touchscreen mobile device (e.g., a smart
   phone, tablet, etc.), and the GUI 100 is displayed on (and receives input through) the
   touchscreen display of the mobile device. As shown, the GUI 100 includes a set of selectable
                                                        14

   1002123110
   items 135, a set of calendar navigation items 140, a calendar layout 145, and a set of
   application navigation items 149.
   [0058]       The set of selectable items 135, in some embodiments, includes a calendar layout
   format change item 136, a search item 137, and a new event creation item 138. In some
 5 embodiments, selecting the calendar layout format change item 136 (e.g., via tapping the item
   on the touchscreen display) causes the application to display a calendar list view rather than
   the hourly calendar layout 145. The calendar list view, in some embodiments, displays a list
   of upcoming appointments sorted by date and time. Selection of the search item 137 causes
   the application to present a search bar for searching the calendar. Selection of the new event
10 creation item 138 causes the application to open a new event creation GUI through which the
   user can enter details for a new event.
   [0059]       The set of calendar navigation items 140, in some embodiments, includes
   selectable items for each day of the current week, as well as a selectable item 141 for
   navigating upwards in the time hierarchy (i.e., to a different layout for the entire month rather
15 than a particular week and day). Each of the selectable items for the different days of the week
   can be selected in order to cause the application to display the user's schedule for the selected day
   in the calendar layout 145. The currently selected day (May     6 th, in this example), is indicated by
   a graphical indicator around the date (i.e., the circle shown around the "6").
   [0060]       The calendar layout 145 of some embodiments displays representations of the
20 appointments scheduled in the user's calendar for the currently selected day. The calendar
   layout 145 displays time markers (e.g., every hour, every half hour, every two hours, etc.), in
   this case starting at 1 PM (the next hour after the current time of 12:30 PM) and ending at 9
   PM. The time markers (and, correspondingly, the calendar) are spaced according to a time scale
   for the layout, which determines the length of time for which the schedule is shown in the
25 layout. Within the calendar layout 145, the application displays representations 150-170 of
   five appointments scheduled in the user's calendar. These representations horizontally span the
   width of the calendar layout 145, and vertically each span their respective time slots. Thus, the
   representation 150 for "Meeting 1", an appointment scheduled from 1 PM to 2 PM, spans the
   portion of the calendar layout 145 representing this time. Similarly, the representation 155
30 spans the portion of the calendar layout 145 from 3 PM to 4 PM, etc. Each of these
   representations displays the appointment name ("Meeting 1", "Soccer Practice", etc.). In
   some embodiments, the representations also display the location of the appointment if this
   information is available and fits within the representation.
                                                      15

   1002123110
   [0061]       The set of application navigation items 149 includes a today item 151, a calendars
   selection item 152, and an inbox access item 153. Selection of the today item 151 navigates
   the calendar layout 145 to the current day. Selection of the calendars item 152 causes the
   application to open a dialog window in which the user can choose what will be displayed in the
 5 calendar layout 145. For instance, the user can select from different calendars (e.g.,
   associated with different e-mail addresses or other accounts), whether to display holidays,
   saved birthdays of contacts, etc. The inbox access item 153 enables the user to access a
   calendar message user interface, which is described in greater detail below in Section III.
   [0062]       The second stage 110 illustrates that the user is providing multi-touch gestural
10 input through the display screen over the calendar layout 145. Specifically, the user inputs a
   pull-apart two-finger gesture centered near 7 PM in the calendar layout. This multi-touch
   gestural input causes the calendar application to modify the time scale of the calendar layout.
   [0063]       Specifically, as shown in the third stage 115, the application increases the portion
   of the calendar layout 145 represented by each hour, such that a smaller portion of the
15 schedule is shown within the layout. That is, the application zooms in on a portion of the
   calendar layout centered near 7 PM. However, this zoom is only in the vertical direction; the
   horizontal aspect of the calendar layout 145 is unchanged. Some embodiments zoom in about the
   center of the layout 145 (which would be near 5 PM in the current example), while other
   embodiments (as shown in this example) zoom in about the center of the gestural input. As a result
20 of the modification to the time scale, only the appointment representations 160 and 165 (and a
   small portion of the representation 170) remain displayed in the calendar layout 145 in the third
   stage 115. These appointment representations 160 and 165 have increased in size in correspondence
   with the time scale of the calendar layout, and additionally now each display the location of the
   appointment ("Office" and "City Park") as well as the appointment name. In this third stage 115,
25 the user also continues the multi-touch gestural pull-apart input.
   [0064]       The fourth stage 120 illustrates the GUI 100 after the user has completed the
   multi-touch gestural input begun in the second stage 110. The time scale has been further
   modified compared to the third stage 115 such that the calendar layout 145 only displays less
   than an hour and a half of the user's schedule, with only the representation 165 displayed in the
30 layout. The appointment representation 165 displays, in addition to the appointment name, a list
   of the attendees of the meeting (other than the user of the calendar application). Some
   embodiments do not display additional information beyond the title and location of the appointment.
   On the other hand, some embodiments display more information as the appointment
                                                      16

   1002123110
   representation is enlarged, including the attendees or invitees, any notes about the meeting, the
   number of invitees who have accepted or declined the meeting, etc.
   [0065]       In the fifth stage 125, the user provides a different touch input (a double tap,
   specifically) over the calendar layout 145. This causes the application, as shown in stage 130, to
 5 return the calendar layout 145 display to its default time scale, similar to that shown in the
   first stage 105. As a result, all of the appointment representations 150-170 are now displayed
   within the GUI 100, at the same size as in the first stage 140.
   [00661       In this figure, as well as throughout this document, various specific touch inputs
   are illustrated and described. However, one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that
10 different embodiments may use different types of input (either multi-touch inputs, single-touch
   inputs, near-touch inputs, or non-touch inputs such as inputs from cursor controllers,
   physical buttons, etc.) to perform the operations shown in the figures. Thus, inputs other
   than the pull-apart multi-touch gesture and the double-tap touch input might be used to
   modify the time scale and return to a default time scale, just as inputs other than those
15 shown in the subsequent figures could be performed rather than the gestures shown in
   the subsequent figures.
   [00671       In some embodiments, the user may change the time scale of the calendar
   layout, then change the day for which the calendar is displayed in the layout. In some
   such embodiments, the calendar application keeps the time scale for the newly selected
20 day. That is, the application makes the new time scale for the calendar layout "sticky"
   across the schedules for different time periods.
   [00681       Figure 2 illustrates the maintaining of a modified time scale for different days
   of a calendar layout over four stages 205-220 of the GUI 100. The first stage 205
   illustrates the GUI 100 in the same state as in the first and second stages 105 and 110 of
25 the previous figure. Additionally, at this stage, the user performs the same gestural input
   as in the stages 110 and 115 of Figure 1, with the resultant second stage 210 being the
   same as stage 120 of that figure. At this point, the time scale has been modified such
   that the calendar layout displays slightly less than an hour and a half of the schedule for
   May 6, from a bit before 6 PM up to nearly 7:30 PM.
30 [00691       In the third stage 215, the user selects a selectable item 225 representing
   Wednesday, May 7. In this case, the user makes this selection via a tap gesture over the
   selectable item. As this is the next day after the currently displayed day, some
                                                     17

   1002123110
   embodiments allow the same calendar navigation via a leftward swipe gesture over the
   calendar layout 145.
   [00701       The resultant stage 220 displays the user's schedule for Wednesday, May 7.
   Because the user had modified the time scale before changing the displayed day, the
 5 application maintains the modified time scale (as well as the portion of the day's
   schedule shown in the calendar layout). Thus, the calendar layout 145 now displays the
   portion of the user's schedule from shortly before 6 PM to almost 7:30 PM, which includes
   an appointment representation 230 for an appointment "Dinner With Client". Because the
   representation 230 occupies a large portion of the calendar layout 145, the application
10 displays the location and attendees for the appointment (or other information in other
   embodiments).
   [0071]       In addition to modifying the time scale to enlarge the portion of the calendar
   layout represented by one hour, the application of some embodiments also allows users
   to modify the time scale of the calendar layout in the opposite direction. That is, through
15 gestural input the user can modify the time scale of the calendar layout such that each hour
   occupies a smaller portion of the calendar layout and more time of the day is displayed within the
   layout.
   [0072]       Figure 3 illustrates the GUI 100 as the user decreases the time scale (i.e.,
   decreases the portion of the layout occupied by a unit of time) over four stages 305-320. The
20 first stage 305 illustrates the calendar layout 145 in a default time scale. The schedule
   illustrates five appointment representations 325-345, which are similar to the appointment
   representations 150-170 in the example above. However, in this case, the appointments "Meeting
   1" and "Meeting 2" are each only a half hour long, and thus their corresponding
   representations in the calendar layout 145 are smaller.
25 [0073]       In the second stage 310, the user begins providing multi-touch gestural input
   through the touchscreen display over the calendar layout 145. Whereas the previous figures
   illustrate the user inputting a pull-apart gesture with two fingers, in this case the user provides
   a pinching gesture to cause the calendar application to modify the time scale of the calendar
   layout.
30 [0074]       Specifically, as shown in the third stage 315, the application decreases the portion
   of the calendar layout 145 represented by each hour, such that a larger portion of the schedule
   is shown within the layout. That is, the application zooms out from a portion of the calendar
                                                     18

   1002123110
   layout centered near 7 PM. As in the previous figures, this zoom operation is only in the vertical
   direction; the horizontal aspect of the calendar layout 145 is unchanged. Some embodiments
   zoom out about the center of the layout 145 (which would be near 5 PM in the present
   example), while other embodiments zoom out about the center of the gestural input (as shown in
 5 this case). Furthermore, some embodiments also may modify the center of the zoom due to the
   time boundaries of the selected day. That is, the application of some embodiments does not
   continue into the schedule of the previous or subsequent day, and thus may increase the time
   shown in the calendar layout at either only the top or only the bottom of the layout once 12 AM is
   reached on either side. As a result of the modification to the time scale, the appointment
10 representations 325-345 have decreased in size in correspondence with the time scale of the
   calendar layout. Furthermore, the size of the text for each of the appointment representations has
   decreased so as to fit within the appointment representations. In this third stage 315, the user
   continues the multi-touch gestural pinch input.
   [00751       The fourth stage 320 illustrates the GUI 100 after the user has completed the
15 multi-touch gestural input begun in the second stage 310. The time scale has been further
   modified compared to the third stage 315 such that the calendar layout 145 now displays
   the user's schedule from approximately 9:30 AM to midnight on the selected day, May 6.
   Once midnight is reached at the end of the selected day, further decreasing of the time
   scale causes only earlier times to appear at the top of the UI. In addition, the text for
20 appointment representations 330, 340, and 345 has continued to decrease in size.
   [00761       The application has also removed the text for appointment representations 325
   and 335, which are shorter meetings of only half an hour. Some embodiments, once the
   appointment representation becomes smaller than a threshold size, remove the text
   altogether rather than displaying difficult or impossible to read information text. This
25 threshold may be based on a size of the representation, a length in time of the
   appointment for certain time scales, etc. In some embodiments, the text is replaced with
   a graphical indicator that informs the user that text is replaced. In order to view the text,
   the user can select the event (to cause the application to display an event details GUI) or
   provide gestural input to modify the time scale. For instance, just as shown in Figure 1
30 for increased time scales, the user may provide input to return to the default time scale after
   decreasing the time scale (e.g., double tap input). Furthermore, after decreasing the time
   scale, the user could provide input to cause the calendar application to switch the day
                                                      19

   1002123110
   for which it displays the schedule, and the decreased time scale would be used for the
   newly displayed schedule as well.
   [00771       The calendar layout GUI 100 shown in the previous three figures is the GUI
   shown when the mobile device on which the application operates is oriented in the portrait
 5 orientation. Some embodiments display a different calendar layout GUI for landscape
   orientation, with similar resizing properties to the portrait orientation GUI.
   [00781       Figure 4 illustrates such a landscape orientation GUI 400 of a calendar
   application of some embodiments as a user increases the time scale, then decreases the
   time scale, then returns to the default time scale by providing various touch input over
10 five stages 405-425. Specifically, in the second stage 410 the user provides multi-touch
   gestural input to increase the time scale, in the third stage 415 the user provides multi-touch
   gestural input to decrease the time scale, and in the fourth stage 420 the user provides a
   different touch input to return to the default time scale.
   [00791       The first stage 405 illustrates the landscape orientation calendar layout GUI
15 400 of some embodiments. The GUI 400 includes a header row 430, an all-day event
   row 435, and a calendar layout 440. The header row 430 displays several days of the
   week, as well as the month to which the days of the week belong. While this figure
   illustrates the GUI 400 as displaying slightly more than three days of the week, some
   embodiments format the width such that five days (i.e., one work week) are displayed.
20 In some embodiments, the number of days displayed within the landscape orientation
   layout is a variable that the user may modify. In addition, some embodiments highlight
   the current day of the week (e.g., with a circle around its number) when that day is
   displayed within the GUI 400.
   [00801       The all-day event row 435, in some embodiments, is displayed in some
25 embodiments only when one of the days in the currently displayed week has an all-day
   event (even if that day is not currently displayed within the calendar layout. Such events
   might be pre-programmed events such as holidays, as well as scheduled appointments
   (e.g., conferences).
   [00811       The calendar layout 440 is similar to the layout 145, except that the layout 440
30 spans multiple days. The calendar layout 440 also has time markers on the left side running
   vertically, and includes appointment representations within the displayed schedule that
   represent the user's appointments during the displayed days.
                                                    20

   1002123110
   [00821       In the second stage 410, the user provides a multi-touch gestural input through
   the display screen over the calendar layout 440. Specifically, the user inputs a pull-apart
   two-finger gesture, which causes the application to increase the time scale of the calendar
   layout 440. As a result, the third stage 415 illustrates that the calendar layout 440 displays
 5 only two hours of the user's schedule for these three days rather than the four and a half
   hours of the previous stage. In addition, the appointment representation 445 for a doctor
   appointment now shows the location of that appointment, and the appointment
   representation 450 shows the full title of the appointment ("Lunch Meeting").
   [0083]       The third stage 415 also illustrates that the user is now providing a multi-touch
10 pinch gestural input over the calendar layout, in order to decrease the time scale of the
   calendar layout 440. The fourth stage 420 illustrates the resultant calendar layout 440,
   with approximately eight hours of the user's schedule illustrated in the layout. The text
   size of some of the appointment representations has decreased, and for the
   appointment representation 455 (for "Meeting 2"), the application has removed the text
15 completely. In both of the third and fourth stages 415-420, the all-day event row 435
   does not change in height. However, in other embodiments, the application
   correspondingly increases or decreases the height of this all-day event row (if present).
   The user also provides a double tap input in the fourth stage 420, and in the fifth stage 425,
   the application has returned the calendar layout 440 to the default time scale from the first stage
20 405.
   [0084]       Figure 5 conceptually illustrates a state diagram 500 that shows states and changes
   between states for the calendar layout GUI of some embodiments. One of ordinary skill in the
   art will recognize that this state diagram does not cover every possible interaction with the
   calendar layout. For instance, the state diagram does not describe changing the day (or days, in
25 the landscape orientation) for which the application displays a user's schedule, or scrolling up and
   down within a day's schedule. Instead, the state diagram 500 is restricted to modifications to the
   time scale of the calendar layout. In each of the states shown in the state diagram 500, the
   operations of the calendar application are controlled by one or more application processes that
   are responsible for handling the user interaction with the calendar application GUI.
30 [0085]       When the user is not interacting with the calendar layout 500, the GUI is in state
   505, at which the calendar application displays the calendar layout statically. That is, when no
   input is received (and the application is displaying the calendar layout GUI), the application
   displays this GUI statically.
                                                       21

   1002123110
   [0086]       When a first type of gestural input is received (e.g., the pull-apart multi-touch
   gesture shown in Figure 1), the application transitions to state 510 to increase the size of the time
   units of the calendar layout. That is, the application increases the portion of the calendar
   layout that each hour (or half hour, or other time unit) occupies as the gestural input is
 5 received, as shown in Figure 1. As this input continues, the application remains in the state 510
   until either a threshold is passed (causing a transition to state 515 or 520) or the gestural input
   ceases (causing a transition back to state 505).
   [0087]       As shown, when the size of an appointment representation reaches a first type of
   threshold, the application transitions to state 515 to display additional information for the
10 event, then returns to the state 510 to continue increasing the time scale. For example, as shown
   in Figure 1, the application might display the location of an appointment within its
   representation (although this may sometimes be displayed by default for the appointment), the
   attendees to the appointment, any notes regarding the appointment, indications as to which
   invitees have accepted, declined, or replied that they are unsure of attendance, or any other
15 information stored about the appointment.
   [0088]       When the size of an appointment representation reaches a second type of
   threshold, the application transitions to state 520 to increase the text size for an event in the
   calendar. In some embodiments, the second type of threshold only exists when the time scale
   has been decreased from the default time scale (i.e., the hours are smaller than at the default
20 scale). That is, the application does not transition to the state 520 and increase the size of the
   text beyond a default text size, but may increase the size of text that has previously been
   decreased from the default. For example, if the user provided the pull-apart gestural input after
   the fourth stage 320 of Figure 3, then the application would increase the text size of some of the
   appointment representations.
25 [0089]       When, instead of receiving the first type of gestural input, the application instead
   receives a second type of gestural input (e.g., the pinch multi-touch gesture shown in Figure 3), the
   application transitions to the state 525 to decrease the size of the time units of the calendar
   layout. That is, the application decreases the portion of the calendar layout that each hour (or half
   hour, or other time unit) occupies as the gestural input is received, as shown in Figure 3. As this
30 input continues, the application remains in the state 525 until either a threshold is passed (causing a
   transition to state 530 or 535) or the gestural input ceases (causing a transition back to state 505).
                                                       22

   1002123110
   [0090]        As shown, when the size of an appointment representation decreases past a threshold of
   the first type, the application transitions to state 530 and removes information from the appointment
   representation, then returns to state 525 to continue decreasing the time scale. For example, as
   shown in Figure 4, the application might remove the location from the displayed appointment
 5 representation. Similarly, if the user were to provide a pinch gesture after the last stage 130 of
   Figure 1, then after a threshold was passed the application would remove the attendees from the
   appointment representation 165. In addition, as shown in Figure 3, the application will remove
   the text altogether from appointment representations once those representations become smaller
   than a certain threshold.
10 [0091]        When the size of an appointment representation in the calendar layout decreases past a
   second type of threshold, the application transitions to state 535 to decrease the text size for an
   event in the calendar. As mentioned above, in some embodiments this second type of
   threshold only exists when the displayed time scale is below the default time scale (i.e., the
   hours are smaller than at the default time scale). That is, the application only modifies the text size
15 as the appointment representations are below the default size for their time length, as shown in
   Figure 3.
   [0092]        In some embodiments, the application may also transition directly from the state
   510 to the state 525 (or vice versa) if the user fluidly transfers from the first type of gestural
   input to the second type of gestural input (or vice versa). However, this can also be viewed as
20 an instantaneous or near-instantaneous transition through the state 505 as well.
   [0093]        When the application receives a third type of input, which may or may not be
   gestural input in different embodiments, the application transitions to the state 540 to return the
   size of the time units in the calendar to the default time scale, then returns to the state 505. In
   some embodiments, as shown in Figures 1 and 4, this input is a double-tap input. The application,
25 at state 540, may also return all font sizes and displayed event information text to the default as
   well.
   H.        Handling Time Zones for Appointments
   [0094]        Some embodiments of the invention allow users to specify a time zone for an
   appointment. When users specify this time zone information for an appointment, the calendar
30 application of some embodiments incorporates this information into the representation of the
   appointment in the calendar layout. When creating an event, the user may specify a time zone for
   the event (e.g., the time zone in which the event will take place), as well as a start time, end
                                                         23

   1002123110
   time, etc. in that time zone. The calendar application, in some embodiments, displays
   representations of the user's appointments according to the time zone in which the mobile
   device running the application is located. As a result, in some cases the calendar application
   displays the calendar in a first time zone, while displaying a representation for an
 5 appointment for which a second time zone is specified. In such cases, some embodiments
   display the representation at its corresponding time in the first time zone, but indicate within
   the representation the second time zone and the specified time in that second time zone for the
   appointment.
   [0095]       Figure 6 illustrates a user modifying the time zone for a new event over six stages
10 605-630. The first stage 605 illustrates the calendar layout GUI 100, described in Section I.
   The user selects the new event creation item 138 during the first stage 605, in order to create
   a new event.
   [00961       The second stage 610 illustrates a new appointment creation GUI 600. In some
   embodiments, when the calendar application receives input to create a new appointment, the
15 application displays the appointment creation GUI 600. Through this GUI, the user can define
   various parameters for a new appointment (i.e., appointment characteristics). The user can enter a
   title (name) for the event, a location of the event, set start and end times, set various parameters
   such as recurrence, travel time, alerts, etc., and enter invitees for the event. The second stage
   610 illustrates the new appointment creation GUI 600 after the user has entered a title
20 ("Lunch w/ John") and location ("Caf6 Local) for the new appointment. In some
   embodiments, selecting the recurrence ("Repeats") or invitees options cause the
   application to display additional dialogs through which the user can select a recurrence
   option or enter invitees. In addition, the application provides mechanisms for the user to
   easily select start and end times. As shown, the user selects the start time row 635 in this
25 stage in order to edit the start time.
   [0097]       The third stage 615 illustrates the resultant start time entry dialog 640 that results
   from the selection of the start time row 635. As shown, the start time entry dialog 640 allows
   the user, through gestural touch input (swiping up and down) to modify the day, hour, and
   minute, as well as select either morning or afternoon. In addition, upon selection of the start
30 time row 635, the application displays a time zone selection row 645.
   [0098]       While shown in the GUI 600 as accessible via the start time row 635 (i.e., as part
   of the start time entry dialog), in other embodiments, the time zone selection row 645 is
                                                      24

    1002123110
   provided as part of the standard new appointment creation GUI (e.g., below the end time
   row). This time zone selection row 645, in some embodiments, initially displays a default
   time zone for a new event. In some embodiments, the default time zone is the time zone in
   which the mobile device on which the calendar application operates is located. Thus, in this
 5 example, the mobile device is located in the pacific time zone, and thus the times are given in
   Pacific Daylight Time (PDT) and the selected locality is a default for the time zone
   ("Cupertino"). Some embodiments use the city or other locality in which the mobile device is
   located rather than a default locality for the time zone. In addition, in some embodiments, the
   default time zone is a user-specified setting for the mobile device rather than the time zone in
10 which the mobile device is located. In the third stage 615, the user selects the time zone
   selection row 645.
    [00991      As a result of this selection, the fourth stage 620 illustrates a time zone
    selection GUI 650. The time zone selection GUI 650 includes a return to appointment
   item 655 (which allows the user to return to the new appointment creation GUI 600
15 without modifying the time zone, a text field 660, a touchscreen keyboard 665, and a list of
    selectable locality options 670. As the user uses the touchscreen keyboard 665 to enter text
   into the text field 660, the list of selectable options 670 displays the most likely localities
   based on the entered text. The most likely localities may be determined based on match
   or near-match (taking into account likely typographical errors) with the text, popularity
20 among users of the application generally, past history of the user, and proximity to the
   current location of the mobile device.
    [01001      In this case, the user has entered the text "new y" by stage 620, prompting the
   application to display "New York, U.S.A." as an option in the list of selectable options
   670. The fifth stage 625 illustrates that the user selects the "New York" option at this
25 juncture. As a result, the sixth stage 630 illustrates that the application returns to the new
   appointment creation GUI 600. The time zone selection row 645 now indicates that the
    selected locality for time zone purposes is New York, and the start and end times are now
   given in Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) rather than PDT. As in this example, some
   embodiments automatically adjust the start and end times for the appointment based on
30 the time zone adjustment. Accordingly, 2 PM PDT became 5 PM EDT, with a similar
   change for the end time. On the other hand, some embodiments do not adjust the times,
   leaving such adjustments up to the user.
                                                     25

   1002123110
   [01011       Figures 7 and 8 illustrate the calendar layout GUI 100 of some embodiments
   in two different circumstances for the same calendar. Specifically, Figure 7 illustrates the
   calendar layout GUI 100 when the mobile device is located in the Pacific time zone,
   while Figure 8 illustrates the calendar layout GUI 100 for the same schedule when the
 5 mobile device is located in the Eastern time zone. In this case, after changing the time
   zone for the new appointment ("Lunch w/ John") in Figure 6, the user modified the
   time for that appointment to be May 8, 12 PM EDT. In addition, the user has scheduled a
   separate meeting for 1 PM PDT on the same day.
   [01021       In Figure 7, the calendar layout 145 includes two appointment representations
10 705 and 710. The first appointment representation 705 is for the appointment "Lunch w/
   John", created for the Eastern time zone as described above. The second appointment
   representation 710 is for a meeting ("Meeting 1"), set for 1 PM in the Pacific time zone.
   The first appointment representation 705 is displayed in the user's schedule at 9 AM, the
   time in PDT that corresponds to the 12 PM EDT specified time for this appointment. In
15 addition, the first appointment representation 705 includes text indicating the meeting
   name and location, as well as the specified time and time zone for the appointment ("12pm
   EDT"). On the other hand, the second appointment representation 710 includes text only
   indicating the meeting name and location, but does not include an indication of the
   specified time zone (because the calendar layout displays the schedule in the time zone
20 specified for the appointment). Furthermore, as shown, some embodiments display the
   two appointment representations differently (e.g., different colors, different shades,
   different patterns, etc.). In addition, other embodiments might indicate that an appointment is set
   for a different time zone in other manners.
   [0103]       In Figure 8, the calendar layout 145 also includes two appointment representations
25 805 and 810. Again, the first appointment representation 705 is for the appointment "Lunch w/
   John" in the Eastern time zone, while the second appointment representation 710 is for the
   appointment ("Meeting 1") in the Pacific time zone. Because the user device is located in the
   Eastern time zone in this example, the application displays the first appointment representation
   705 in the schedule at 12 PM and the second appointment in the schedule at 4 PM, which
30 corresponds to its specified time at 1 PM PDT. Whereas in Figure 7 the first appointment
   representation 705 included extra text indicating that the appointment was specified for
   Eastern time, in this case the first appointment representation 805 includes no such text.
   Instead, the second appointment representation 810 includes similar text indicating that its
                                                    26

   1002123110
   appointment was scheduled for 1 PM Pacific time. In addition, the appearance used for the
   appointment representation 705 is now used for the second appointment representation 810,
   while the default appearance used for representation 710 is now used for representation 805.
   [0104]       In some embodiments, if the user's schedule for May 8 included additional
 5 appointments for the Eastern time zone, then the calendar layout in Figure 8 would include
   additional appointment representations having the same appearance as that of the
   representation 805 (the representation for appointments in the current time zone). On the
   other hand, if the schedule included another Pacific time zone appointment, some embodiments
   would display the representation for this appointment using the same appearance as that of the
10 representation 810. If the schedule included another appointment in a third time zone (e.g.,
   Central Daylight Time), then some embodiments of the application would also display this third
   representation using the same appearance as that of the representation 810 (in addition to
   indicating the specified time in CDT). On the other hand, other embodiments use a different
   appearance for each different time zone, and would thus use a third appearance for a
15 representation of an appointment for which CDT was the specified time zone.
   [0105]       Figure 9 conceptually illustrates a process 900 of some embodiments for
   displaying appointment representations in a calendar layout. Specifically, the process relates
   to the display of appointment representations for appointments with time zones specified, as
   shown in Figures 7 and 8. In some embodiments, the process 900 is performed by a calendar
20 application operating on a mobile device. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that
   the process 900 is part of a larger process for displaying a calendar layout in some
   embodiments, which may also include processes relating to the state diagram 500, described above,
   as well as other aspects of the display.
   [0106]       As shown, the process 900 begins by identifying (at 905) events, or appointments,
25 to display in the calendar layout. The calendar application of some embodiments accesses a
   user's schedule or, in some cases, multiple schedules. For example, a user might have multiple
   calendars associated with different e-mail addresses, which the calendar application aggregates.
   In different embodiments, the calendar application might store the schedule of appointments
   locally on the user device, access the user's schedule in a network storage (e.g., a user's network
30 storage account), or a combination thereof. These appointments include appointments organized
   by the user as well as appointments organized by a different individual to which the user is
   invited and has accepted. When identifying appointments to display in the calendar layout,
   the application of some embodiments identifies the portion of the schedule that will actually be
                                                      27

   1002123110
   displayed (i.e., the day(s) and hours to currently display in the calendar application GUI.
   However, some embodiments perform the process to generate appointment representations for
   other portions of the user's schedule (e.g., upcoming hours or days) that the user may request the
   application display.
 5 [0107]       Next, the process 900 selects (at 910) one of the identified events. Some
   embodiments perform the subsequent looped operations for the user's appointments in
   scheduling order, a random or pseudo-random order, etc. In addition, one of ordinary skill in
   the art will recognize that some embodiments may perform the operations 915-930 for several
   appointments in parallel, rather than generating appointment representations one at a time.
10 For purposes of explanation, however, the process 900 is described as a linear process.
   [0108]       The process then determines (at 915) whether the time zone specified for the
   selected event is the same as the time zone in which the device is currently located. In some
   embodiments, the device on which the application operates connects to network stations (e.g.,
   WiFi router, cellular network tower, etc.) which provide time information, including the date, time
15 zone, local time, etc. In some embodiments, the calendar application automatically displays the
   schedule in the local time. Thus, even if the default time zone for the device is Pacific time, if the
   user In addition, at least some of the appointments include specified time zone information. As
   shown in Figure 6, when the user of the calendar application creates a new appointment, the user
   may choose a specific time zone for the event or use a default time zone, which is stored with the
20 event in either case. Appointments to which the user is invited by others will generally have a
   time zone associated as well.
   [0109]       When the specified time zone for the appointment and the current time zone of the
   device are the same, the process displays (at 920) a representation of the appointment in the
   calendar layout at the specified time without additional time zone information. For the
25 representation, the process uses an appearance designated for appointments for which the current
   local time zone is specified. That is, the application displays the appointment representation
   with a default appearance (e.g., color, shade, border, fill pattern, etc.) used when the specified
   time zone information for the appointment is the same as the local time zone. For instance, the
   appointment representations 710 in Figure 7 and 805 in Figure 8 are displayed in this manner. The
30 process 900 then proceeds to 935, described below.
   [0110]       On the other hand, when the specified time zone for the appointment is different
   than the time zone in which the device is located (and therefore the time zone for which the
                                                     28

   1002123110
   schedule is displayed), the process 900 identifies (at 925) the appointment time in the current
   time zone of the device. That is, the application converts the specified time in the first time zone
   into a second time in the current time zone. For example, an event specified for noon in the
   Eastern time zone will be converted into 9 AM when the device is operating in Los Angeles,
 5 whereas an event specified for noon in the Pacific time zone will be converted into 3 PM
   when the device is operating in New York.
   [0111]       The process then displays (at 930) a representation of the appointment in the
   calendar at the identified time in the current time zone (as opposed to the specified time in the
   specified time zone) along with additional information about the specified time zone. For the
10 representation, the process uses an appearance designated for appointments for which a time zone
   other than the local time zone is specified. That is, the application displays the appointment
   representation using a different appearance (e.g., color, shade, border, fill pattern, etc.) than
   that used for appointments for which the current time zone is specified. Some embodiments
   have one appearance used for all time zones different from the current time zone, whereas other
15 embodiments use different appearances for appointments with different specified time zones. For
   instance, the appointment representations 705 in Figure 7 and 810 in Figure 8 are both displayed
   with a different appearance than the appointment representations for the events specified in the
   local time zone. In some embodiments, as in these figures, the additional information displayed
   for non-local events is the specified time zone and time in text within the appointment
20 representation (e.g., the "12pm EDT" shown in appointment representation 705. Other
   embodiments may include additional or different indicators, such as a selectable graphical
   indicator that the user can select in order to cause the application to display additional time and
   time zone information about the appointment.
   [0112]       After displaying the representation for the selected event, the process determines
25 (at 935) whether additional events remain to be displayed. When the operations 915-930 have
   not yet been performed for all appointments in the displayed schedule, the process returns to 910
   to select the next appointment. Otherwise, when all identified appointments have been processed,
   the process ends.
   IL        Commenting on Invitations
30 [0113]       The above sections describe various features of the calendar layout GUI some
   embodiments. The following section describes a calendar message user interface (inbox) of
   some embodiments, and its use to accept or decline appointment invitations, as well as to
                                                      29

   1002123110
   comment on such appointment invitations. In some embodiments, when a user of the calendar
   application declines an appointment (through an invitation message in the same inbox in some
   embodiments), the application automatically provides the user with the ability to add a comment to
   a communication that will be sent to the organizer of the appointment, rather than sending the
 5 communication right away. The user can then type in a comment (e.g., through a touchscreen
   keyboard), and accept or decline other invitations present in the inbox. The calendar application
   holds off on sending the communications indicating acceptance/declining of an invitation until the
   user provides input indicating that she has completed actions in the inbox (e.g., by returning to
   the calendar layout).
10 [0114]       Figure 10 illustrates, over three stages 1005-1015, a user accessing the calendar
   message user interface 1000 of some embodiments, also referred to within this document as an
   inbox. Specifically, in the first stage 1005, the user opens the calendar application, then selects
   the inbox access item in the second stage 1010 in order to view the calendar message user interface
   1000 in the third stage 1015.
15 [01151       The first stage 1005 illustrates a home screen UI 1025. In this UI 1025, the mobile
   device presents various selectable user interface items, each representing a different
   application. These applications may be provided by the manufacturer of the device (e.g., a standard
   e-mail application, mapping and navigation application, messaging application, etc.), or by
   third party application providers (e.g., service-specific applications such as streaming video,
20 social media, etc. applications). In some embodiments, the calendar application is an
   application provided by the manufacturer of the device. At the first stage 1005, the user
   selects a selectable item 1020 representing the calendar application. This selectable item
   includes a small badge 1030 with the number "2", which indicates that the user has
   received two new calendar messages.
25 [01161       As a result, the second stage 1010 illustrates that the device has opened the
   calendar application, which displays the calendar layout GUI 100. The inbox access item
   153 includes the number "2", so as to also indicate that the user has received two new
   calendar messages. In the second stage 1010, the user selects the inbox access item 153.
   [01171       The third stage illustrates the resulting calendar message user interface 1000
30 of some embodiments. The calendar message UI 1000 includes a set of tabs, with a new
   messages tab 1035 and a replied messages tab 1040. In addition, the calendar message UI
   includes an activities completed item 1045, and a messages display area 1050. The new
                                                     30

   1002123110
   messages tab 1035 and the replied messages tab 1040 enable the user to select which sets of
   messages are displayed in the messages display area 1050. Presently, the new messages
   tab 1035 is selected, and therefore new messages are displayed in the messages display
   area 1050. Selection of the activities completed item 1045 causes the application to (i)
 5 perform any actions specified by the user through the messages display area (e.g., accept or
   decline invitations, send comments, etc.) and (ii) return to the calendar layout GUI 100.
   [0118]      The messages display area 1050 displays information about communications
   that the calendar application has received regarding appointments. These messages may
   be replies to appointment invitations that the user of the calendar application has
10 previously sent out, or appointment invitations sent to the user of the calendar application
   by others to invite that user to an appointment. In some embodiments, when the new
   messages tab 1035 is selected, the messages display area displays new communications
   that the user has not yet interacted with. For instance, for appointment invitations received
   from others, the user can respond by accepting the appointment, declining the
15 appointment, or indicating that she is unsure as to availability (responding with
   "maybe") for the appointment. The first message item 1055 shown in the messages
   display area 1050 is an example of such an invitation. The invitation displays the meeting
   name, the organizer of the meeting who sent the invitation, and the time of the meeting.
   Some embodiments may include other information about the meeting, such as any notes
20 or attachments specified by the organizer of the meeting. The invitation also displays
   three selectable options (accept, maybe, and decline). In some embodiments, once the user
   selects one of the options and the application sends a communication to the organizer regarding
   the user's response, the message will then be available via the replied messages tab 1040.
   [0119]      The new messages inbox also displays communications received from invitees in
25 response to appointment invitations sent to the invitees by the user of the calendar application.
   These may replies indicating acceptance, decline, or a "maybe" response to an invitation, as well
   as comments regarding the appointment. When multiple invitees have commented on and/or
   declined the appointment, some embodiments aggregate these communications into a single
   entry in the user interface. For instance, the second message item 1060 shown in the messages
30 display area 1050 is an example of a set of such aggregated communications received in response
   to an appointment invitation sent by the user of the calendar application. Specifically, the user
   of the application organized the appointment "Meeting 2" and sent the appointment out to
   several invitees. The message item 1060 indicates that two of these invitees have declined the
                                                     31

   1002123110
   invitation. In some embodiments, only responses declining an appointment or commenting on an
   appointment are displayed in the new messages inbox. In this example, two invitees have
   declined, one of whom also commented. In some embodiments, when the comment does not
   fit on one line, the application truncates the comment.
 5 [0120]       In some embodiments, the user can select one of these message items to view
                further detailed information about the appointment, including information indicating
   (i) whether invitees have responded, (ii) what the invitees' responses indicated, and (iii)
   whether the invitees had comments about the appointment. In addition, some embodiments provide a
   separate selectable item for each of the message item (the "View Comments" item within the
10 message item 1060)) to access a page with more detailed information about the invitees of the
   appointment. This page, in some embodiments, also provides indication as to which invitees have
   responded, as well as indicators (e.g., graphical indicators) about whether responding invitees
   indicated they will attend. In addition, the page provides the full text of any comments the
   invitees may have had regarding the appointment. Rather than combining the first type of
15 communications (e.g., the invitation 1055) and the second type of communication (the
   comment and/or declining of an appointment 1060), some embodiments provide a third tab for
   messages relating to appointments organized by the user of the calendar application.
   [01211       As indicated, when a user of the calendar application of some embodiments
   declines an appointment through the invitation message item, the application automatically
20 provides the user with the ability to add a comment to a communication that will be sent
   to the organizer of the appointment, rather than sending the communication right away.
   The user can then type in a comment (e.g., through a touchscreen keyboard), and accept
   or decline other invitations present in the inbox. The calendar application holds off on
   sending the communications indicating acceptance/declining of an invitation until the user
25 provides input indicating that she has completed actions in the inbox (e.g., by returning
   to the calendar layout).
   [01221       Figure 11 illustrates an example of a user declining an appointment and
   commenting on the appointment in the calendar message user interface 1000 of some
   embodiments over six stages 1105-1130. Specifically, the user selects the decline option
30 for an appointment, then selects a text field automatically displayed for the declined
   appointment, enters a comment into the text field, and completes user activities within the
   calendar messages UI.
                                                      32

   1002123110
   [01231        As shown, the first stage 1105 illustrates the calendar messages GUI 1000,
   with three message items 1135-1145 displayed, all three of which are for new invitations
   for appointments to which the user of the calendar application is invited. In some
   embodiments, the first message item 1135 is an invitation to a meeting Thursday at
 5 noon, the second message item 1140 is an invitation to a conference call at 2 PM on
   Thursday, and the third message item 1145 is an invitation to dinner at 6 PM on
   Thursday. Each of these message items 1135-1145 lists event details (title, organizer, and
   date/time), and provides the accept, maybe, and decline selectable options. In the first
   stage, the user selects the decline option for the message item 1135 by tapping the
10 touchscreen at the location of the "Decline" text.
   [0124]        The second stage 1110 illustrates that the calendar messages GUI 1000
   registers the selection of the decline option in three ways. First, the calendar application
   lightens the display of the meeting name (e.g., by removing a bold styling applied to the
   text, by decreasing the font size, etc.) and applies a strikethrough to the meeting name.
15 Secondly, the application displays the "Decline" option as selected at the bottom of the
   message item. Third, the application displays a text field 1150 within the message item
   1135, with background text "Comment to Organizer". The techniques used in this
   example to indicate that the user has selected to decline an appointment invitation are
   only one example of such UI features, and different embodiments may use different
20 techniques to indicate a user's choice.
   [0125]        In some embodiments, when the user selects either "Accept" or "Maybe", the
   selectable option is highlighted in a similar fashion to that shown for the "Decline" option in
   stage 1110. However, the calendar application neither modifies the meeting title nor displays a
   text field for the other two options. In other embodiments, though, the calendar application
25 automatically displays the text field when the user selects any of the three response options. As
   indicated by the background text of the comment field, the user may use the comment field to
   enter a comment regarding the appointment with the response that will be sent to the
   organizer of the appointment (e.g., the comment "Can't Make it." shown in the message item 1060
   of Figure 10). The second stage 1110 illustrates the user selecting the comment field (e.g., with
30 a tap input on the location of the comment field).
   [0126]        The selection of the comment field causes the application to display a touchscreen
   keyboard 1155, as shown in the third stage 1115. The touchscreen keyboard 1155, in some
   embodiments, is a GUI construct provided by the operating system of the touchscreen device to
                                                        33

   1002123110
   which the various applications are allowed access. When the user selects the comment field, the
   background text automatically disappears and the application displays a text cursor blinking in the
   comment field. As shown at this stage, the user has begun typing the comment "Iwon't make..."
   into the comment field, using the touchscreen keyboard.
 5 [0127]       The fourth stage 1120 illustrates that the user has completed the text input through
   the touchscreen keyboard, and provides touch input outside of the comment field 1150 and
   touchscreen keyboard 1155 in order to indicate completion of the text entry, at least for the
   time being. As a result, the fifth stage 1125 illustrates that the application has removed the
   touchscreen keyboard 1155 from the display. The user also selects the activities completed
10 item 1045 in order to leave the calendar messages GUI. As shown, this causes the calendar
   application to return to the calendar layout GUI 100 of some embodiments in the sixth stage
   1130.
   [01281       The inbox access item 153 in the calendar layout GUI 100 now indicates that the
   user only has two new messages in the inbox rather than three. In some embodiments, when the
15 user selects the activities completed item 1045, as shown in the fifth stage 1125, the calendar
   application sends out messages based on the response selections entered by the user. Thus, when
   the user selects the decline option in the second stage 1110, the application does not yet send
   out any communications to the organizer Even after the user completes entering a
   comment into the text field and selects elsewhere in the GUI in the fourth stage 1120, the
20 application does not send either the decline response or the comment to the organizer of
   the appointment. This allows the user to respond to multiple appointments within the
   calendar messages inbox, edit comments, etc., before any responses are sent out to the
   organizers of the respective appointments.
   [01291       Figure 12 illustrates a user declining multiple appointments in the calendar
25 messages GUI 1000 over five stages 1205-1225. Specifically, the user declines multiple
   events, completes calendar activities in the messages GUI, then returns to the calendar
   messages GUI with the completed activities reflected in the replied messages inbox rather
   than the new messages inbox.
   [01301       The first stage 1205 illustrates the calendar messages GUI 1000 in the same
30 state as the fifth stage of Figure 11. That is, the user has declined a first appointment
   through the decline option in the selectable message item 1135, and has entered a
   comment into the text field 1150. At this stage, the user selects the decline option for the
                                                      34

   1002123110
   second message item 1140, in order to decline the conference call appointment. As a
   result, the application provides a second text field 1230 in the second stage 1210, to
   allow the user to enter a comment regarding the conference call appointment.
   However, rather than entering a comment, the user selects the activities completed item
 5 1045.
   [01311      The third stage 1215 illustrates the calendar layout GUI 1000. The calendar
   application at this point will have sent communications to the organizers of the two
   declined appointments, indicating that the user has declined these appointments
   (along with a comment to the organizer of the lunch meeting). As a result of the user
10 declining two appointments, the inbox access item 153 indicates that only one new
   message remains. The user selects this item in the third stage 1215 in order to return to
   the calendar messages GUI 1000.
   [01321      As such, the fourth stage 1220 illustrates the calendar messages GUI 1000,
   with the new messages tab again selected. However, because the calendar application has
15 replied to the message items 1135 and 1140, only the message item 1145 remains in the
   new messages inbox. At the fourth stage 1220, the user selects the replied messages tab.
   The fifth stage 1225 therefore illustrates the replied messages in the message display area
   1050 of the calendar messages GUI 1000. The message items 1135 and 1140, for the
   appointments that the user declined in the previous stages, are now displayed in the
20 replied messages inbox.
   [01331      Figure 13 illustrates the same flow over five stages 1305-1325 as the previous
   figure, except that the user accepts the conference call invitation rather than declining it.
   Specifically, in the first stage 1305, the user selects the accept option within the message
   item 1140. Thus, in the second stage 1310, the accept option is highlighted for the
25 conference call message item 1140, and the appointment title has not been crossed out.
   In the fifth stage 1325, the message item for the accepted appointment also appears with
   the accept option highlighted. When the user selects the activities completed item 1045
   in the second stage 1310, the calendar application sends a first message to the organizer
   of the lunch meeting to decline that appointment and a second message to the organizer
30 of the conference call appointment to accept that appointment.
   [01341      Figure 14 conceptually illustrates a state diagram 1400 that shows states and
   changes between states for the calendar message GUI of some embodiments.
                                                   35

   1002123110
   Specifically, the state diagram 1400 pertains to the calendar message GUI when the new
   messages tab of some embodiments is selected. One of ordinary skill in the art will
   recognize that this state diagram does not cover every possible interaction with the
   calendar message GUI, or even the messages display area. For instance, the state diagram
 5 does not describe scrolling through the messages when the number of message items is too
   numerous to all fit within the display area at once. Furthermore, the state diagram does
   not describe interactions to toggle between the new messages inbox and the replied
   messages inbox, nor does the state diagram describe interactions with message items for
   responses to appointments organized by the user (e.g., message items such as item 1060
10 of Figure 10). For such message items, in some embodiments the user may view
   appointment details, view an invitees GUI with comments from the invitees, and
   acknowledge the message item in order to cause the application to remove the message
   item from the new messages inbox. In each of the states shown in the state diagram
   1400, the operations of the calendar application are controlled by one or more application
15 processes that are responsible for handling the user interaction with the calendar application
   GUI.
   [01351      When the calendar messages GUI is open but the user is not interacting with
   it, the GUI is in the state 1405, at which the calendar application displays the new
   messages display area (the inbox) with all new (unreplied-to) communications. Examples
20 of this state include stage 1015 of Figure 10 or stage 1105 of Figure 11 (prior to the user
   selecting the decline appointment option).
   [01361      When the application receives the selection of an appointment (shown as an
   event in the figure), the application transitions to state 1410 to display an appointment
   details GUI. This GUI, described in greater details below by reference to Figure 23, displays
25 various information about an appointment (either an appointment organized by the
   calendar application user or an appointment to which the calendar application user is
   invited). The appointment details, in some embodiments, indicate the appointment time,
   location, and invitee data, as well as other information. In addition, the appointment details
   GUI of some embodiments includes a return to previous GUI item. Thus, if accessed from
30 the calendar messages GUI, the appointment details GUI includes an item for returning to
   the calendar messages GUI. Thus, when the application receives a selection of this item (or
   other input for returning to the calendar messages GUI), the application transitions back
   to the state 1405 to again display the calendar messages GUI.
                                                  36

   1002123110
   [01371        When the application receives a selection for a particular message item that
   the user is unsure of attendance of the appointment (e.g., the "Maybe" option), the
   application transitions to state 1415 to mark the appointment as a maybe response, then
   transitions back to the default state 1405. Similarly, when the application receives a
 5 selection for a particular message item that the user accepts the appointment, the
   application transitions to the state 1420 to mark the event as accepted, then transitions
   back to the default state 1405. In both of these events, the application does not actually
   respond to the selected appointment invitation by sending any communications to the
   organizer The first and second stages 1305 and 1310 of Figure 13 illustrate an example
10 of the user accepting an invitation, and the resulting change in the GUI.
   [01381        When the application receives a selection for a particular message item that
   the user declines the appointment, the application transitions to the state 1425 to mark
   the event as declined. Before transitioning back to the state 1405, the application also
   transitions to the state 1430 to display a comment text field for the appointment. For
15 instance, in Figure 11, when the user selects the decline option in the first stage 1105, the
   GUI 1000 highlights the decline option, crosses through the appointment title, and
   displays the comment field 1150 within the selectable message item for the declined
   appointment in the second stage 1110.
   [0139]        So long as at least one appointment with a message item displayed in the
20 calendar messages GUI has been declined, the user can select the comment text field for
   the item (e.g., by tapping the touchscreen at the location of the text field). When the
   application receives such a selection of a text field for comments, the GUI transitions to state
   1435 and displays a touchscreen keyboard over a portion of the messages display area. In some
   embodiments, when the selected comment field is located at the bottom of the display, the
25 application automatically scrolls the message item containing the selected text field up to the top
   of the messages display area. With the touchscreen keyboard displayed, as the user enters keyboard
   input, the application transitions to the state 1440 to enter text into the selected text field. The
   user may repeatedly enter text, and with each character entered (or removed) the application
   transitions to the state 1440 and then back to the state 1435. When the application receives a selection
30 outside of the comment field, the application removes the keyboard from the display in order to
   transition back to the default state 1405 (e.g., as shown in the fourth and fifth stages 1120 and
   1125 of Figure 11).
                                                        37

   1002123110
   [0140]       Finally, when the application receives input to complete calendar messaging
   activities (e.g., selection of the activities completed item 1045 or an equivalent input), the
   calendar application transitions to the state 1445, at which the application generates and sends
   response communications for any events from the new messages inbox with responses
 5 marked by the user. That is, if the user has selected response options (accept/maybe/decline) for
   any of the appointment invitations in the new messages inbox, the application sends the response
   messages for these appointments to their respective organizers once the user leaves the calendar
   messages GUI. In addition, some embodiments allow the user to modify her responses to
   appointments through the items in the replied messages inbox, and these updated response
10 communications are sent as well at this time.
   [0141]       The application then transitions to the state 1450 to return to the calendar layout
   GUI, in some embodiments. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the application
   may return to the calendar layout before actually sending the messages, or perform these actions
   at the same time. In addition, though not shown, the application may transition from state 1450 back
15 to the state 1405 if the user selects an inbox access item or provides equivalent input while the
   application displays the calendar layout GUI.
   IV       Participant Availability
   [0142]       Whereas the above section primarily described replying to appointments
   organized by others, the following section relates to features of the calendar application of
20 some embodiments for organizing appointments. Specifically, the calendar application of some
   embodiments provides information regarding the availability of proposed participants for a
   new appointment, to aid in scheduling the appointment. In some embodiments, when a user
   enters a new invitee for an appointment (for which the user is the organizer), the application
   automatically accesses the invitee's calendar (e.g., by accessing a server) and displays an
25 indicator (e.g., a graphical indicator) that indicates whether or not the invitee is available at an
   initially scheduled time for the appointment. When the application cannot access a particular
   invitee's calendar (e.g., because the server is inaccessible or the application does not have
   the required permissions), then the application displays an indicator that the invitee's
   availability is unknown.
30 [0143]       Once the user has finished adding invitees for the appointment, the application
   identifies any scheduling conflicts and proposes additional new times at which the invitees are
   available. Some embodiments display (i) the invitees that are not available at the currently
                                                       38

   1002123110
   scheduled time for the appointment, (ii) at least one upcoming time at which all invitees (and the
   organizer of the meeting), and (iii) upcoming times at which various subsets of the invitees
   are available. The application presents selectable items for each of these upcoming times,
   enabling the organizer to select the time as a new time for the appointment, or to view the
 5 appointment in her calendar at the upcoming time.
   [0144]        Figures 15 and 16 illustrate the creation of an appointment, and specifically the
   addition of invitees to an appointment while creating the appointment. Figure 15, over six
   stages 1505-1530, illustrates the creation of a new appointment and the addition of a first
   invitee to the appointment. As shown, the first stage 1505 illustrates the calendar layout GUI 100,
10 with a user selecting the new appointment creation item 138. As a result, the second stage 1510
   illustrates the new appointment creation GUI 600, described above by reference to Figure 6. At this
   stage, the user selects the invitees row 1535.
   [0145]        As illustrated in the third stage 1515, selection of the invitees row causes the
   application to open an invitee addition GUI 1500. The invitee addition GUI 1500 provides users
15 with two mechanisms to add invitees to the new appointment. First, as shown, the GUI
   displays a text field 1555 and touchscreen keyboard 1540. Using the touchscreen keyboard
   1540, the user can type identifying information for an invitee (e.g., e-mail address, name, etc.)
   into the text field 1555. In addition, the GUI includes an add contact selectable item 1545
   which, when selected, causes the application to open a list of the contacts stored for the user (e.g.,
20 on the mobile device, in a network storage, etc.), so that the user can search through the list of
   contacts to find an invitee for the appointment.
   [0146]        The fourth stage 1520 illustrates that the user has typed a "j" using the
                 touchscreen keyboard 1540, in order to begin entering contact identification
   information. As a result, the application searches through the user's contact information (e.g.,
25 the contact list, e-mail addresses from which communications have been received, etc.). The
   application displays, in a potential invitee display area 1550, a list of possible matches for the
   typed text string. In this case, the application displays a first selectable item 1555 for John
   Duo and a second selectable item 1560 for Jim Su.
   [0147]        In the fifth stage 1525, the user selects the selectable item 1555 to add John Duo
30 as an invitee to the new appointment. As such, the sixth stage 1530 displays John Duo in the
   text field 1555. In addition, next to the invitee name, the application displays a graphical
   indicator 1560. When the calendar application of some embodiments receives an invitee for an
                                                      39

   1002123110
   appointment, the application attempts to access the schedule of the invitee (e.g., by accessing
   a server or network storage). If the user of the calendar application has been granted access to
   the invitee's schedule and that schedule is accessible, the calendar application identifies
   whether the invitee is available or busy at the time of the appointment. The check mark
 5 graphical indicator 1560 indicates that the invitee John Duo is available from 2 PM to 3 PM on
   Tuesday May 6, the currently scheduled time of the appointment.
   [0148]       Figure 16 illustrates the continued addition of invitees to the new appointment
   over six stages 1605-1630. The first stage 1605 is the same as the sixth stage 1530 of Figure
   15, with John Duo added as a first invitee to the appointment. In the second stage 1610, the user
10 types a "b",and the application presents a selectable item 1635 for the possible invitee Bob
   Smith, which the user selects in the third stage 1615.
   [0149]       The fourth stage 1620 illustrates that the invitee list now includes Bob Smith, with
   a different graphical indicator 1640 next to his name in the text field 1555. The graphical
   indicator 1640 is an X, indicating that the application was able to access Bob Smith's
15 schedule, and that he is not available during at least a portion of the scheduled time for the new
   appointment (2-3 PM). In addition, at the fourth stage 1620, the user begins typing a name of a
   third invitee.
   [0150]       The fifth stage 1625 illustrates that the application presents a selectable item 1645
   for the possible invitee Sam Jr., which the user selects. In the final stage 1630, the invitee list in
20 the text field 1555 now includes three invitees. For the third invitee, Sam Jr., the application
   displays a third graphical indicator 1650, which indicates that the invitee's schedule was
   inaccessible (e.g., because the user of the calendar application does not have permissions to
   access Sam Jr.'s schedule). Thus, the application of some embodiments displays one of three
   different graphical indicators for each invitee, depending on whether the invitee is available,
25 busy, or has an inaccessible schedule.
   [0151]       Figure 17 conceptually illustrates a process 1700 for displaying such a graphical
   indicator when an invitee is added to an appointment. In some embodiments, the calendar
   application performs the process 1700 (or a similar process) each time the user adds an
   invitee to a new appointment. In addition, in some embodiments, the application may perform
30 a similar process when generating other displays regarding the appointment at a later time, in case
   the schedule of one or more of the invitees has changed.
                                                     40

   1002123110
   [0152]      As shown, the process 1700 begins (at 1705) when the application receives the
   addition of a new invitee to a proposed appointment. As described by reference to Figure 15,
   in some embodiments the user can add a new invitee by typing the invitee name or e-mail
   address, or by opening up a contact list and selecting a contact from that list. In some
 5 embodiments, each invitee is actually an e-mail address. That is, while a person may have
   multiple e-mail addresses (e.g., a work e-mail address, a personal e-mail address, etc.), only one
   of these addresses is selected as an invitee. In some embodiments, an appointment is always
   assigned a start and end time when initially created, and the organizer may edit the time of the
   appointment.
10 [0153]      The process then attempts (at 1710) to access a calendar of the invitee (i.e., a
   schedule) through a network connection. The device on which the calendar application
   operates connects to at least one network in some embodiments (e.g., a cellular network,
   broadband network, etc.). The calendar application either attempts to connect directly with a
   device associated with the invitee, or to a server that stores schedule information for the
15 invitee. For example, in a work environment, an Exchange@ server or similar type of e-mail and
   calendar server that stores employee's calendars may be accessible. For personal e-mail addresses
   (e.g., mac.com, gmail.com, etc.), some embodiments contact the servers associated with those
   e-mail domains to access invitee schedules.
   [0154]      Next, the process 1700 determines (at 1715) whether the invitee's calendar is
20 accessible. In some cases, the user of the calendar application may not have permission to
   access the schedule of the invitee. These permissions, in some embodiments, are granted to the e
   mail address of the user which is associated with the appointment, or the device on which the
   calendar application runs). In other cases, the server that stores the invitee's schedule may be
   inaccessible at the time, or the invitee may not actually use a scheduling functionality.
25 [0155]      When the invitee's calendar is not accessible for any reason, the process displays
   (at 1720) an indication that the availability of the invitee for the scheduled time of the
   appointment cannot be determined. Some embodiments use a graphical indicator, such as the
   question mark graphic 1650 shown in the sixth stage 1630 of Figure 16. Other embodiments
   may use different graphical indicators, or non-graphical indicators.
30 [0156]      When the invitee's calendar is accessible, the process determines (at 1725) the
   availability of the invitee at the scheduled appointment time. Some embodiments classify an
   invitee as unavailable if the invitee has a different appointment scheduled for any portion of the
                                                      41

   1002123110
   duration of the new appointment. Other embodiments, however, classify an invitee as
   available if the overlap between scheduled appointments in the invitee's calendar and the new
   appointment is small (e.g., less than a threshold duration, or less than a threshold percentage of
   the duration of the new appointment). In addition, some embodiments use travel time
 5 information, or use a mapping application to calculate travel time between appointments to
   determine whether an invitee will be able to attend an appointment.
   [0157]        The process then determines (at 1730) whether or not the invitee is available at the
   time of the appointment. When the invitee is available at the scheduled time, the application
   displays (at 1735) an indication of this availability. Some embodiments use a graphical
10 indicator, such as the check mark graphic shown in the sixth stage 1530 of Figure 15. On the
   other hand, when the invitee is not available at the scheduled time, the application displays (at 1740)
   an indication of this unavailability. Some embodiments use a graphical indicator, such as the X
   graphic 1640 shown in the fourth stage 1620 of Figure 16. Other embodiments may use different
   graphical indicators for these two indications, or use non-graphical indicators. After displaying
15 one of the three indicators, the process 1700 ends.
   [01581        In addition to displaying indicators regarding availability, the calendar application
   of some embodiments attempts to solve scheduling conflicts. Specifically, some
   embodiments identify and display (i) the invitees that are not available at the currently
   scheduled time for the appointment, (ii) at least one upcoming time at which all invitees (and the
20 organizer of the meeting), and (iii) upcoming times at which various subsets of the invitees
   are available. The application presents selectable items for each of these upcoming times,
   enabling the organizer to select the time as a new time for the appointment, or to view the
   appointment in her calendar at the upcoming time.
   [01591        In Figures 18 and 19 illustrate an invitee scheduling GUI 1800 of some
25 embodiments for displaying scheduling conflicts and alternate times for a new
   appointment. Figure 18 illustrates five stages 1805-1825, in which the user completes
   the addition of invitees to an appointment, navigates the scheduling GUI 1800, and
   requests additional times at which all invitees are available. Figure 19 illustrates four
   stages 1905-1920 in which the user continues navigating the scheduling GUI 1800 and
30 requests additional times at which subsets of the invitees are available.
   [01601        The first stage 1805 of Figure 18 illustrates the invitee addition GUI 1500
   after the user has added four invitees for a new appointment. Of these invitees, John Duo
                                                       42

   1002123110
   is available at the scheduled time, Bob Smith and Jane Lee are unavailable at the
   scheduled time, and Sam Jr.'s schedule is inaccessible. The new appointment, though not
   shown at this stage, has an initial scheduled time of 1PM to 2PM on Thursday, May 8,
   2014. At this stage, the user (the organizer of the appointment) selects an activities
 5 completed item 1830 to indicate that all of the invitees have been added for the
   appointment.
   [01611        The calendar application, as a result, displays an invitee scheduling GUI 1800
   of some embodiments in the second stage 1810. In some embodiments, the GUI 1800
   first lists all of the invitees, divided into two sections 1835 and 1840 based on whether the
10 invitee has responded to an invitation from the organizer. At this stage, as the calendar
   application has not yet sent an invitation, all four invitees are in the no response category.
   Next to the invitee names are graphical indicators, similar to those displayed in the
   previous invitee addition GUI 1500, to indicate the availability of the invitees based on
   their schedules. In some embodiments, when the invitees have responded, similar
15 graphical indicators are used based on their responses (i.e., check marks for invitees that
   have accepted the invitation, question marks for invitees that have responded with a
   maybe response, and Xs for invitees that have declined the invitation. Each of the listed
   invitees is a selectable item, which when selected causes the application to display contact
   information for the invitee in some embodiments. In addition, below the no response
20 section 1840 of the GUI is a row 1845 that enables the user to access the invitee addition
   GUI 1500 and add more invitees to the appointment.
   [0162]        The second and third stages 1810 and 1815 illustrate the user scrolling
   through the GUI 1800, and these two stages will be described in conjunction with the
   fourth stage 1820 to describe the GUI as a whole. In some embodiments, the font used
25 within the GUI is smaller, and more of the GUI can fit on the display screen at once.
   Below the listed invitees is a scheduling conflict section 1850. The scheduling conflict
   section 1850 of some embodiments indicates the initial proposed appointment time (i.e.,
   Thursday, May 8, 2014, from 1PM to 2 PM in this example) and the users that cannot attend at
   that proposed time. This provides a succinct display to the organizer of the appointment as to
30 which users are unavailable for the appointment at its currently scheduled time. Although shown
   one below the other, and with first names only, some embodiments display the full names of the
   invitees (e.g., "Bob Smith"), and display the invitees in two columns. One of ordinary skill
   will recognize that various different organizations of the invitees are possible within each section
                                                     43

   1002123110
   and subsection. Within the scheduling conflict section 1850 is a check mark indicator 1855, used
   to indicate that this is the currently selected time for the appointment. In some embodiments, this
   check mark indicator 1855 is displayed differently from the graphical indicators that indicate
   when an invitee is available for a proposed appointment time. In addition, the scheduling
 5 conflict section 1850 includes a selectable item 1860 for viewing the appointment in the organizer's
   calendar.
   [01631       The GUI next includes a section 1865 for displaying selectable items representing
   times when all invitees can attend. In some embodiments, as shown, this section 1865 initially
   displays one selectable item 1870 for a time when all of the invitees can attend. Some
10 embodiments use the earliest time starting from the current time, while other embodiments use
   the earliest time starting from the proposed time of the appointment. Yet other embodiments
   use the time closest to the proposed time of the appointment, irrespective of whether this time is
   before or after the proposed appointment. In addition, some embodiments only search for times
   during business hours (e.g., 9-6 Monday-Friday, or a different definition of business hours).
15 Other embodiments do not mandate such restrictions, but rely on the invitees (or the organizer) to
   have marked off their respective calendars for availability only during certain hours. In this
   example, the application cannot access Sam's calendar. To handle such situations, some
   embodiments discount invitees whose calendar is inaccessible, and only search for times at which
   all of the other invitees (and the organizer) can attend.
20 [01641       In this example, the first time at which all invitees can attend that falls within the
   allowed times is Monday, May 11, 2014. The selectable item 1870 displays the date and time, as
   well as a check mark indicating that all invitees can attend and a selectable item for viewing
   the appointment in the organizer's calendar. Furthermore, the section 1865 includes a show
   more selectable item 1875, the selection of which causes the application to display
25 additional proposed times at which all invitees can attend.
   [01651       The fourth stage 1820 illustrates the selection of this item 1875, causing the
   calendar application display additional selectable items 1880 and 1885 for times at which
   all invitees are able to attend. Though not shown in the fifth stage 1825, some
   embodiments display selectable items for all of the time slots (of the same length as the
30 initial proposed time) at which all invitees are able to attend for a pre-specified period of
   time (e.g., one week, two weeks, one month, etc.). The user can scroll through these
   selectable items in the GUI 1800, and choose one of the items in order to specify a new
   time.
                                                       44

   1002123110
   [01661      As shown in the third and fourth stages 1815 and 1820, below the section
   1865 is a section 1890 for displaying selectable items representing times at which
   different subsets of the invitees can attend. The GUI section 1890 will be described in
   greater detail by reference to Figure 19, the first stage 1905 of which illustrates the GUI
 5 1800 in the same state as in the fourth stage 1820 of Figure 18. At this stage 1905, the
   user provides a gestural scrolling input to scroll the GUI upwards and view more of the
   section 1890 for selectable items representing times at which different subsets of the
   invitees can attend, shown in the second stage 1910.
   [01671      In some embodiments, as shown, this section 1890 initially displays three
10 selectable items 1925-1935 for different times when some of the invitees can attend the
   appointment. Other embodiments only display one selectable item initially, or display a
   different number (e.g., two, five, etc.) of selectable items for times at which subsets of
   invitees can attend.
   [01681      Different embodiments sort these times differently. Some embodiments first
15 propose appointment times with the fewest number of unavailable invitees. For
   appointment times with equal number of unavailable invitees (for example, all three
   selectable items 19251935 propose times with one unavailable invitee), some
   embodiments order based on the time (e.g., earliest starting from current time, earliest
   starting from the proposed time, closest to the proposed time, or a different time-based
20 ordering). Other embodiments use a form of time-based ordering as an initial criteria, but
   avoid having the same invitee or combination of invitees unavailable for more than one of
   the initial proposed times (unless there are fewer invitees than the number of proposed
   times). Still other embodiments use different ordering for the proposed appointment
   times (e.g., a solely-time based ordering, without concern for the number of available
25 invitees). In some embodiments, the application only proposes times at which the
   organizer (i.e., the user of the calendar application) is available. In addition, some
   embodiments only search for times during business hours (e.g., 9-6 Monday-Friday, or a
   different definition of business hours). Other embodiments do not mandate such
   restrictions, but rely on the invitees (or the organizer) to have marked off their respective
30 calendars for availability only during certain hours. As with the proposed times at which
   all invitees can attend, some embodiments discount invitees whose calendar is
   inaccessible, and only search for times at which subsets of the other invitees (and the
   organizer) can attend.
                                                   45

   1002123110
   [01691       In this example, the first three times displayed are 2pm-3pm and 4pm-5pm on
   Friday, May 9 (with Bob and Jane unavailable, respectively), and Monday, May 11, at
   9am (with John unavailable). Each of the selectable items 1925-1935 displays the
   proposed date and time, as well as the names of each unavailable invitee, along with a
 5 graphical indicator that denotes their unavailability, and a selectable item for viewing the
   appointment in the organizer's calendar. Furthermore, the section 1890 includes a show
   more selectable item 1940, the selection of which causes the application to display
   additional proposed times at which various subsets of invitees can attend.
   [01701       The second stage 1910 illustrates the selection of this item 1940, causing the
10 calendar application display additional selectable items for times at which all invitees are
   able to attend. The third stage 1915 illustrates the display of additional selectable
   items for proposed times at which different subsets of the users can attend. The third stage
   1915 also illustrates the user scrolling to reveal additional proposed times, shown in the
   fourth stage 1920, a continuation of the section 1890 of the GUI 1800. Some
15 embodiments display selectable items for all of the time slots (of the same length as the
   initial proposed time) at which different subsets of invitees are able to attend for a pre
   specified period of time (e.g., one week, two weeks, one month, etc.). The user can scroll
   through these selectable items in the GUI 1800, and choose one of the items in order to
   specify a new time.
20 [01711       In this example, the additional selectable items with proposed times include a
   selectable item 1945 proposing a time from 9am-Oam on May 8 (at which time both
   John and Jane are unavailable) and a selectable item 1950 proposing a time from l0am
   11 am on May 9 (at which time both Bob and Jane are unavailable). These times are
   closer to the initially proposed time of 1pm-2pm on May 8 than the proposed times at
25 which only one invitee is unavailable, but are listed after them because more of the
   invitees are not available.
   [0172]       Figure 20 illustrates the use of a selectable item for viewing a proposed
   alternate time in the user's calendar over two stages 2005-2010. In the first stage 2005,
   the invitee scheduling GUI 1800 in the same state as at the second stage 1910 of Figure 19.
30 Specifically, the stage 2005 illustrates three selectable items 1925-1935 for three different
   proposed alternate times for an appointment with a scheduling conflict. Each particular one of these
   selectable items 1925-1935 contains a selectable item to view the proposed time for the particular
                                                     46

   1002123110
   selectable item in the user's calendar. The first stage 2005 illustrates the user selecting the
   item 2015 for a proposed time of 4-5pm on Friday, May 9.
   [0173]       Thus, the second stage 2010 illustrates the calendar layout GUI 100 of some
   embodiments, with the new appointment slotted into the user's calendar from 4pm-5pm. As
 5 shown, some embodiments present a representation 2025 of the new appointment with a
   different appearance (e.g., a different color, fill pattern, border, etc.) from the other
   appointment representations in the schedule. In this case, the user does not have any
   appointments abutting the proposed time for the new appointment. In some cases, the user might
   have meetings that either end at the start time of the new appointment or start at the end time of
10 the new appointment. In such cases, the user is in the best position to determine whether the
   appointments have a good chance to run long, and therefore whether the proposed time is a
   good time for the new appointment. The calendar layout GUI 100, when accessed from the
   invitee scheduling GUI 1800, includes a return to previous GUI selectable item 2020, which
   when selected returns to the invitee scheduling GUI 1800. Other embodiments include an
15 activities completed item (e.g., an item reading "Done"). In addition, some embodiments do not
   display the entire calendar layout GUI, but instead only display the calendar layout display area
   along with a selectable item for returning to the scheduling GUI 1800.
   [0174]       Figure 21 illustrates the selection of one of the alternate proposed times, and the
   effect thereof on the invitee scheduling GUI 1800, over three stages 2105-2115. The first
20 stage 2105 illustrates the invitee scheduling GUI 1800 in the same state as the third stage 1815
   of Figure 18, with the scheduling conflict section 1850 and the section 1865 for proposed
   times at which all invitees can attend. As shown by the graphical indicator 1855, the originally
   proposed time of 1pm-2pm on May 8 is the currently selected time for the appointment. At this
   stage 2105, the user provides a tap input on the selectable item 1870 for the proposed
25 appointment time of 5pm-6pm on May 11.
   [01751       The resultant second stage 2110 illustrates that the check mark indicator 1855 is
   now displayed in the recently selected item 1870, to indicate that the currently selected time
   for the appointment is now 5pm-6pm on May 11. In addition, the user scrolls the GUI down to
   reveal, in the third stage 2115, the no response section 1840 after the item 1870 was selected.
30 As shown at this third stage 2115, the calendar application of some embodiments updates the
   graphical indicators for the invitees in this section based on the newly selected time. As such, for
   the three invitees whose calendar is accessible (John, Bob, and Jane), the application displays a
   check mark indicator to indicate that the invitee is available at that time. Because Sam's
                                                      47

   1002123110
   calendar is not accessible, the application continues to display the question mark indicator for
   him.
   [0176]         Figure 22 conceptually illustrates a process 2200 of some embodiments for
   generating and preparing proposed times for display in the scheduling GUI. In some
 5 embodiments, the calendar application performs the process 2200 upon receiving a list of
   invitees for a new appointment, during the appointment creation flow. The application performs
   the process 2200 to generate the scheduling GUI, although only a portion of the GUI may
   displayed on the display screen at a given time due to space constraints.
   [01771         As shown, the process 2200 begins by identifying (at 2205) that at least one
10 invitee is busy during a proposed time for a new appointment. In some embodiments, if all
   invitees for a new appointment either do not have accessible calendars or all have the
   proposed time for the new appointment open on their calendars, then the application does not perform
   the process 2200. In such embodiments, the application only displays the list of invitees with
   check mark and/or question mark indicators, and does not display the scheduling conflict
15 section or the lists of proposed alternative appointment times.
   [0178]         However, if the calendar of at least one invitee indicates that the invitee is
   unavailable, then the application identifies (at 2210) a first set of upcoming times during
   which all invitees and the organizer are available. For example, some embodiments analyze
   the various invitees' calendars to identify all time slots, of the same length as the initial
20 proposed time, within a particular time period during which all invitees and the organizer (i.e.,
   the user of the calendar application) are available. Some embodiments begin the particular
   time period from the current time, while other embodiments begin the particular time period
   from the initial proposed time for the appointment. Still other embodiments use a time period both
   before and after the initial proposed time for the appointment (so long as the proposed alternate times
25 are not prior to the current time). In any of these cases, various different embodiments may use
   different time periods (e.g., 1 week, 1 month, two days, etc.). In addition, some embodiments
   restrict the times for proposed appointments to working hours (e.g., 9-5, 9-6, 8-6, etc., M-F,
   depending on the definition of working hours). Other embodiments rely on the organizer and
   invitees to have marked their calendars with their available times in order to impose such
30 restrictions.
   [0179]         The process then orders (at 2215) the first set of times based on their start time.
   Some embodiments order the first set of times from earliest to latest, while other
                                                        48

   1002123110
   embodiments order the first set of times based on proximity to the initial proposed time,
   whether before or after this initial proposed time. For example, if the initial proposed time is 1pm
   2pm on Thursday, then an available 12pm-lpm time would come before a 3pm-4pm time, which
   would come before an available 1Oam- 11 am time.
 5 [0180]        Next, the process identifies (at 2220) a subset of the first set of times to display.
   For instance, some embodiments begin by only displaying one time at which all invitees are
   available. Other embodiments initially display more such times, and in some cases none of
   the times are displayed initially (if there are a large number of invitees such that the other
   portions of the GUI occupy the entire display initially). Furthermore, after the user has selected the
10 "show more" GUI item, additional times from the first set of times will be displayed.
   [01811        The process 2200 performs a similar set of operations for times at which subsets
   of the invitees are available. As shown, the process identifies (at 2225) a second set of
   upcoming times, at which both the organizer and at least one invitee are available. Some
   embodiments analyze the various invitees' calendars to identify all time slots, of the same
15 length as the initial proposed time, within a particular time period during which the organizer
   (i.e., the user of the calendar application) and at least one invitee are available. Some
   embodiments begin the particular time period from the current time, while other embodiments
   begin the particular time period from the initial proposed time for the appointment. Still other
   embodiments use a time period both before and after the initial proposed time for the
20 appointment (so long as the proposed alternate times are not prior to the current time). In any of these
   cases, various different embodiments may use different time periods (e.g., 1 week, 1 month,
   two days, etc.). In addition, some embodiments restrict the times for proposed appointments
   to working hours (e.g., 9-5, 9-6, 8-6, etc., M-F, depending on the definition of working hours).
   Other embodiments rely on the organizer and invitees to have marked their calendars with their
25 available times in order to impose such restrictions.
   [01821        The process then orders (at 2230) the second set of times using the number of
   unavailable invitees as a first criteria and the start time as the second criteria. Some
   embodiments first order the second set of times such that the alternate times with only one
   unavailable invitee are at the beginning of the order (assuming there is at least one such
30 time), then the alternate times with two unavailable invitees, and so on. For proposed
   times with the same number of unavailable invitees, different embodiments may use the
   different orderings described above for the first set of alternate times (e.g., proximity
   to initial proposed time, earliest to latest starting at current time, earliest to latest starting
                                                       49

   1002123110
   at initial proposed time, etc.). In addition, some embodiments further refine the order so as
   to avoid repeating the same sets of unavailable invitees. For example, if there are four
   invitees, some embodiments ensure that the first four proposed alternate times include
   one time at which each of the invitees is unavailable. After this, some embodiments
 5 remove other times at which one invitee is unavailable, while other embodiments use the
   next set of times for each unavailable invitee.
   [01831       Lastly, the process 2200 identifies (at 2235) a subset of the second set of times
   to display. For instance, some embodiments begin by displaying three times at which all
   invitees are available. Other embodiments initially display fewer or more times (e.g.,
10 depending on the number of invitees), and in some cases none of the times are displayed
   initially (if there are a large number of invitees such that the other portions of the GUI
   occupy the entire display initially). Furthermore, after the user has selected the "show
   more" GUI item, additional times from the second set of times will be displayed.
   [01841       The process 2200 then ends. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that
15 this is a conceptual process, and the operations may not necessarily be performed in the
   order shown. For instance, the calendar application might perform the operations
   2225-2235 regarding the second set of times prior to the operations 2210-2220 regarding
   the first set of times, or perform the two sets of operations in parallel.
   [01851       The above figures describe the actions of the calendar application of some
20 embodiments for handling invitee availability when creating new appointments. After the
   appointment details are fully determined by the organizer, the application of some
   embodiments generates and sends a communication to each of the invitees informing of the
   meeting and enabling the invitees to provide a response to the invitation.
   [01861       In addition, after the appointment has been created, the calendar application of
25 some embodiments provides an easy way for the organizer to e-mail all invitees of the
   appointment. Figure 23 illustrates an appointment organizer e-mailing all of the invitees
   over four stages 2305-2320 of the calendar application GUIs.
   [01871       The first stage 2305 illustrates an appointment details GUI 2300 for an
   existing appointment. In some embodiments, the user accesses this appointment details
30 GUI 2300 by selecting an appointment in the calendar layout, or in various other manners.
   The appointment details GUI, in some embodiments, first displays the appointment
   name and time information. In addition, the appointment details GUI includes an invitee
                                                   50

   1002123110
   section 2325. As shown, the invitee section 2325 of some embodiments divides the
   invitees into those who have accepted the appointment invitation, those who have
   responded that they are unsure of attending the appointment, those who have declined, and
   those who have not responded to the appointment. In addition, some embodiments display
 5 a comment indicator 2330 to indicate that a user has commented on an invitation. The
   appointment details GUI 2300 of some embodiments also displays additional
   information, such as the pertinent calendar for the appointment, any alerts or travel time
   information, etc. In the first stage 2305, the user selects the invitee section 2325.
   [01881      As a result, in the second stage 2310 the calendar application displays an
10 invitee GUI 2335. The invitee GUI 2335 is similar to the invitee scheduling GUI 1800,
   without the additional information regarding scheduling conflicts and proposed
   alternative times. Instead, the invitee GUI 2335 displays the invitees in two sections, a
   first group for invitees who have responded and a second group for invitees who have
   not yet responded. The first group includes three invitees in this case, with graphical
15 indicators to indicate each invitees' response. Furthermore, each invitee that has
   commented on the appointment has their comment displayed below their name. At the
   top, the invitee GUI includes a selectable item 2340, which the user selects in the second
   stage 2310.
   [01891      The selectable item 2340, shown in this example in the shape of an envelope
20 associated with e-mail, causes the calendar application to generate an e-mail to send to
   all invitees. In some embodiments, the calendar application provides appointment and
   invitee data to an e-mail application operating on the same device, and the e-mail
   application prepares an e-mail for the user to send after entering any desired text. For
   instance, the user might want to inform the invitees to bring certain items to the
25 appointment, or that the event will be starting slightly late, etc.
   [0190]      The third and fourth stages 2315 and 2320 illustrates the e-mail GUI 2350 that
   results from the user's selection of the item 2340. As shown, the e-mail subject
   (displayed in the subject line and the top of the GUI) is the name of the appointment for
   which the e-mail was generated. In addition, the to line of the e-mail is populated with
30 the e-mail addresses of the invitees (showing the invitees' names when the information is
   known), and the cc/bcc/from line populated with the organizer's name (the user of the
   calendar application and e-mail application). The body of the e-mail includes one or more blank
   lines in some embodiments (e.g., four blank lines), then includes different appointment details in
                                                    51

   1002123110
   different embodiments. Specifically, in this case, the e-mail body is populated with the
   appointment name, date and time, location, and list of invitees. The user can then type in the
   desired message above the appointment details and select the send item in order to send the e-mail
   to the invitees. In addition, if the organizer wishes to omit one or more invitees from the e-mail,
 5 she can edit the to field of the e-mail.
   V.       Intelligent Suggestions for New Appointments
   [0191]       While the above section describes a calendar application feature for identifying
   scheduling conflicts and attempting to resolve those conflicts once a set of invitees and a time
   have been determined for a new appointment, the calendar application of some embodiments
10 automatically proposes new appointments based on analysis of a user's past calendar history.
   Specifically, some embodiments identify patterns (e.g., recurring meetings) in the user's past
   calendar history, then propose appointments that continue such patterns. For example, if the
   user has had an appointment with the same name at the same time on the same day of the week for
   the past several weeks, then the application proposes an appointment with that name at the same
15 time on the next occurrence of the particular day of the week. If the recurring time is occupied
   by a different appointment, then the application of some embodiments identifies a nearby time
   (e.g., just before or just after) and proposes the new appointment at the nearby time. If
   additional details (e.g., the location, invitee list, etc.) are the same or similar throughout the
   recurrences, the application uses these additional details for the proposed appointment.
20 Similarly, the application might identify appointments held every other week, every day, on the
   same day of the month for several months, etc. The application might identify other patterns, such
   as the same set of invitees at numerous appointments (with numerous different times and
   appointment names), and propose a new appointment for the set of invitees at the next available
   time.
25 [0192]       In addition, some embodiments allow the user to enter a text string describing an
   aspect of the appointment, and identify proposed appointments based on searching through the
   calendar history for matches on the text string. The text string might match the name of an
   appointment, a day on which the appointment was held, the name of an invitee or set of invitees
   for the appointment, etc. Once the user selects a proposed appointment in either case, the
30 application adds this appointment to the calendar of the user, and the user can edit the details
   (e.g., change the time, invitees, location, etc.) before sending invitations to the appointment to
   the finalized list of invitees.
                                                       52

   1002123110
   [01931       The following section initially describes some embodiments that automatically
   generate proposed appointments upon the selection of a new appointment creation option, by
   reference to Figures 24-28. Following this, the section next describes embodiments that
   generate proposed appointments upon receiving text input describing a desired new appointment,
 5 by reference to Figures 29-33.
   [0194]       Figure 24 illustrates a monthly view GUI 2400 of a user's schedule which will be
   used as a reference for the subsequent Figures 25-27. Specifically, the monthly view GUI
   2400 includes a top bar 2405 that includes several tabs 2410 for different calendar views, a
   search bar, a calendar toggle item, and a new event creation item 2415. The tabs 2410 allow the
10 user to switch between different views of the user's schedule, including the monthly view shown
   in this figure and the daily view shown in Figures 25-27, as well as a weekly view and a
   yearly view.
   [0195]       The new appointment creation item 2415, in some embodiments, causes the
   calendar application to display a dialog for creating a new appointment in the user's calendar.
15 In some embodiments, the new appointment creation dialog provides a text field into which
   the user can enter a name of a new appointment. Upon receiving an additional input (e.g.,
   pressing the "Enter" key or an equivalent input to indicate completion of the appointment
   description), the application creates a new appointment in the next available time slot (e.g., the
   next half hour time slot, next hour-long time slot, next hour-long time slot beginning on the
20 hour, etc.). The user can also enter additional details into the text field (e.g., text clearly
   indicative of a time and/or date), and the calendar application will account for this
   information when creating the new appointment (e.g., if the text input includes "7PM Friday" then
   the new appointment will be created at 7pm on Friday rather than in the next available time
   slot). In some embodiments, in addition to this text field, the application generates proposed
25 appointments based on analysis of the user's calendar history, as described by reference to the
   subsequent figures.
   [01961       Below the top bar 2405 is the user's monthly calendar 2420. As shown, the user of
   the calendar application displayed in Figure 24 has a variety of meetings in the past several
   weeks, including "Meeting 3" held both of the previous two Thursdays (the current date,
30 May 15, is selected in the monthly schedule 2420). In addition, various phone calls and
   other appointments are scheduled.
                                                     53

   1002123110
   [01971      Figure 25 illustrates the generation of new appointment options in a daily
   view GUI 2500 of some embodiments. Specifically, Figure 25 illustrates two stages
   2505-2510 of the GUI 2500. The first stage 2505 illustrates the daily view GUI 2500
   of some embodiments. The calendar layout GUI 2500 is the GUI for a calendar
 5 application that operates on a laptop or desktop computer, in some embodiments,
   although the GUI 2500 may also be displayed by a calendar application operating on a
   mobile device (e.g., a tablet computer, a smart phone, etc.).
   [01981      The GUI 2500 includes the top bar 2405 that includes several tabs 2410 for
   different calendar views (with the daily tab now selected), the search bar, the calendar
10 toggle item, and the new event creation item 2415. The GUI 2500 also includes a
   miniaturized month view 2525, an upcoming appointments view 2530, and a schedule
   view 2535. The miniaturized month view 2525 shows the current day in the calendar and
   can be used to select a day for the other two calendar views 2530 and 2535. The
   upcoming appointments view 2530 displays upcoming appointments for the user's
15 schedule, starting with the day selected in the miniaturized month view 2525. The
   schedule view 2535 displays the user's schedule for the day selected in the miniaturized
   month view. In some embodiments, the schedule view 2535 shows the current time (and
   automatically begins at the current time), and is scrollable. The schedule view 2535
   displays appointment representations for the scheduled appointments in the user's
20 calendar. In the first stage 2505 of Figure 25, the user selects the new event creation
   item 2415 (e.g., with a mouse click, a tap on a touchpad or touchscreen, or other
   selection mechanism).
   [0199]      The second stage 2505 illustrates the result of the selection of the new event
   creation item 2415. The calendar application automatically displays a fillable text field
25 2540 with background example text. The user may enter text input into this text field
   2540 to name a new appointment. Upon receiving an additional input (e.g., pressing the
   "Enter" key or an equivalent input to indicate completion of the appointment
   description), the application creates a new appointment in the next available time slot
   (e.g., the next half hour time slot, next hour-long time slot, next hour-long time slot
30 beginning on the hour, etc.). The user can also enter additional details into the text field
   (e.g., text clearly indicative of a time and/or date), and the calendar application will
   account for this information when creating the new appointment (e.g., if the text input
                                                  54

   1002123110
   includes "7PM Friday" then the new appointment will be created at 7pm on Friday rather than
   in the next available time slot).
   [0200]        In addition, below the fillable text field 2540, the application proposes one or
   more new appointments based on the past appointments in the user's calendar history. In some
 5 embodiments, the calendar application identifies patterns in the user's past calendar history,
   then proposes appointments that continue such patterns. For example, if the user has an
   appointment with the same name at the same time on the same day of the week for several weeks,
   then the application may propose an appointment with that name at the next occurrence of the
   particular day of the week. Similarly, the application might identify appointments held every
10 other week, every day, every other day, on the same day of the month for several months, etc. If
   additional details (e.g., the location, invitee list, etc.) are the same or similar throughout the
   recurring appointments, the application uses these additional details in the proposed appointment.
   [0201]        Some embodiments also identify other recurring characteristics of appointments
   and propose new appointments with the recurring characteristics. For example, some
15 embodiments identify common sets of invitees to appointments (which may not follow a regular
   pattern of naming or occurrence), and propose appointments at an arbitrary time (e.g., the next
   available time slot on the user's calendar) with the set of invitees. Once the user selects one of
   the proposed appointments, the application adds this appointment to the calendar of the user, and
   the user can edit the details (e.g., change the time or location, add or remove invitees, etc.) of
20 the appointment.
   [0202]        In the example of Figure 25, the application proposes two appointments based on
   the analysis of the user's calendar, and displays selectable items 2545 and 2550 for these. The
   first selectable item 2545 proposes an appointment titled "Meeting 3" for 1 PM on the current day
   (a Thursday), because the previous two Thursdays (and possibly additional prior Thursdays) have
25 had a "Meeting 3" at 1 PM. The selectable item 2545 also indicates a location "Office",
   which could be the location of the previous two meetings with this title. Some embodiments
   provide additional details within the selectable items, such as the list of invitees for the proposed
   appointment, and/or other details regarding the appointment. If the previous iterations of "Meeting
   3" include different sets of invitees or different locations, some embodiments generate separate
30 selectable items for the different permutations. Other embodiments use an algorithm that
   determines, for each characteristic, which values to use. For instance, some such
   embodiments first identify, among the recurring appointment instance, which value of the
   characteristic appeared most often. If there is a tie for the most often occurrence of the value,
                                                         55

   1002123110
   then the application uses the value for the characteristic from the most recent occurrence of the
   recurring appointment. For instance, if "Meeting 3" had a first set of three invitees in the first
   week of May and a second set of four invitees in the second week of May, some embodiments
   use the second set of four invitees for the proposed appointment, while other embodiments
 5 propose two separate appointments with all of the details the same except for the set of invitees.
   [0203]       The second selectable item 2550 proposes an appointment titled "Weekly
   Discussion" for 9 AM the next day (Friday). Some embodiments use contextual clues in the
   appointment titles, and the user's calendar includes an appointment on the previous Friday
   with the same title. As this appointment indicates in its title that it is weekly in nature, the
10 application proposes the appointment for the same time in the following week, at the same location
   and with the same additional characteristics.
   [0204]       The second example, Figure 26, illustrates a similar action performed on the
   subsequent Thursday, May 22, over two stages 2605-2610. In the first stage 2605, the user
   again selects the new appointment creation item 2415, and the second stage 2610 again illustrates
15 the resulting proposed appointments based on analysis of the user's calendar history. In this case,
   the user has held a "Meeting 3" on Thursday May 15 at 1 PM, but did not have another "Weekly
   Discussion" on Friday May 16.
   [0205]       The second stage 2610 illustrates that the application again displays the text field
   2540, again with two selectable items 2615 and 2620 for two proposed appointments. The
20 first selectable item 2615 proposes a new appointment on the current day for "Meeting 3",
   similar to that in the previous figure. However, in this case, the user already has an
   appointment "Phone Call 2" scheduled from lpm-2pm, the time slot usually used for
   "Meeting 3". Thus, the application identifies the next available time slot, 2pm-3pm, and
   proposes the appointment during that time slot. Some embodiments identify the next
25 available time slot after the time slot determined based on recurrence, while other
   embodiments also look for time slots prior to the time slot determined from the recurring
   appointments. For example, if the user of the calendar application also had an appointment from
   2pm-3pm, some embodiments would propose an appointment from 12pm-lpm with the selectable
   item 2615.
30 [02061       In both of these examples, the application displays two selectable items for two
   proposed appointments. Some embodiments always display at least a minimum number of
   selectable items for proposed appointments (e.g., at least one, at least two, etc.). Some
                                                     56

   1002123110
   embodiments also have a maximum number of selectable items that may be displayed
   (e.g., five proposed appointments). When there is a maximum number, some embodiments
   assign scores to each proposed appointment (e.g., based on the number of past occurrences
   of the appointment, the extent of similarity between the appointment characteristics of the
 5 various occurrences, etc.), and display selectable items for the proposed appointments
   with the highest scores. When determining the order of the selectable items, some
   embodiments order the proposed appointments based on their start time (earliest to
   latest), while other embodiments order the proposed appointments from highest score to
   lowest score.
10 [02071      Figures 27A-B illustrate the selection of one of the proposed appointment
   options and the subsequent creation of a new appointment in the user's calendar over five
   stages 2705-2710. The first stage 2705 illustrates the GUI 2500 in the same state as the
   second stage 2510 of Figure 25, with two selectable items 2545 and 2550 for two proposed
   appointments generated based on the user's calendar history. At this stage, the user
15 selects (by placing a location indicator over the selectable item in the GUI and providing
   selection input, although other mechanisms for selection are possible) the second
   selectable item 2550 in order to create a new appointment with the characteristics
   specified by the appointment.
   [02081      The second stage 2710 illustrates that the new appointment is created from
20 9am- 10am on Friday, May 15. When the application creates the new appointment, some
   embodiments automatically select the calendar daily view to the day of the newly created
   appointment. Thus, as shown, the upcoming appointments view 2530 now starts with
   Friday, May 16, and the schedule view 2535 displays the schedule for May 16, which
   includes an appointment representation 2730 for the newly created appointment titled
25 "Weekly Discussion". In addition, the application automatically displays an appointment
   details dialog 2735 that displays the characteristics of the appointment and allows the user to
   modify these characteristics. For this appointment, the application automatically
   generated a title, time, location, set of invitees (John Doe, Jim Smith, and Jane Park), and
   notes on the appointment ("We'll be discussing ongoing projects"). In this case, the
30 automatically generated appointment does not include any alerts, travel time
   information, recurrence data, or attachments, though the user is able to add any of this
   information if desired. The user selects the appointment time information at this stage
   2710.
                                                   57

   1002123110
   [02091       The third stage 2715 illustrates that the application expands the appointment
   details dialog 2735 to include all of the time-related options, including start and end time,
   recurrence options, travel time, etc. The user selects the end time, and the resulting fourth
   stage 2720 displays various end time options 2740, allowing the user to choose a length and
 5 corresponding end time for the appointment. The user selects the "11:00 AM: 2 hours" option,
   and the fifth stage 2725 displays the result of this selection. The appointment is now 2 hours long,
   with the appointment representation 2730 modified accordingly.
   [0210]       Figure 28 conceptually illustrates a process 2800 of some embodiments for
   automatically generating proposed appointments upon receipt of an input to create a new
10 appointment. In some embodiments, this process is performed by a calendar application operating on
   a desktop or laptop computer, a mobile device, etc., when the user selects a "new event" or "new
   appointment" option.
   [0211]       The process 2800 begins when the application receives (at 2805) a request to
   create a new appointment based on a user's current calendar. In some embodiments, the user
15 selects a user interface feature for creation of a new appointment (e.g., the selectable GUI
   item 2415 shown as selected in Figures 25 and 26. In other embodiments, the user selects
   from a drop-down menu, or performs other interaction to create a new appointment.
   [0212]       Upon receiving the request, the process analyzes (at 2810) the user's past calendar
   history to identify appointment options for upcoming time slots. In some embodiments, the user
20 of the calendar application may have multiple calendars (e.g., a work calendar, personal
   calendar, etc.). Some embodiments analyze all of the schedules together, whereas other
   embodiments only analyze a currently selected schedule. In some embodiments, analyzing the
   past calendar history to identify appointment options entails identifying patterns in the user's past
   calendar history, then identifying appointments that continue such patterns. For example, if the
25 user has an appointment with the same name at the same time on the same day of the week for
   several weeks, then the application may identify a possible appointment with that name at the
   next occurrence of the particular day of the week. Similarly, the application might identify
   appointments held every other week, every day, every other day, on the same day of the
   month for several months, etc. If additional details (e.g., the location, invitee list, etc.) are the
30 same or similar throughout the recurring appointments, the application uses these additional
   details in the proposed appointment.
                                                       58

   1002123110
   [0213]        Some embodiments also identify other recurring characteristics of appointments
   and propose new appointments with the recurring characteristics. For example, some
   embodiments identify common sets of invitees to appointments (which may not follow a
   regular pattern of naming or occurrence), and propose appointments at an arbitrary time (e.g.,
 5 the next available time slot on the user's calendar) with the set of invitees.
   [0214]       If the previous iterations of a recurring appointment include different sets of
   invitees or different locations (or variations in other characteristics), some embodiments
   generate separate possible appointments for the different permutations. Other embodiments use an
   algorithm that determines, for each characteristic, which values to use for a single proposed
10 appointment based on a recurring set of appointment instance. For instance, some such
   embodiments first identify, among the recurring appointment instance, which value of the
   characteristic appeared most often. If there is a tie for the most often occurrence of the value, then
   the application uses the value for the characteristic from the most recent occurrence of the
   recurring appointment. For instance, if an appointment held at the same time for each of the
15 past several weeks had a first set of three invitees in one of the weeks a second set of invitees in a
   second one of the weeks, some embodiments use the most recent set of invitees for the proposed
   appointment, while other embodiments propose two separate appointments with all of the details the
   same except for the set of invitees.
   [0215]       In addition to identifying recurring appointments, some embodiments also identify
20 contextual clues in, e.g., the appointment titles. For instance, if the previous week or month
   included an appointment titled "Weekly Discussion" or "Monthly Review", some embodiments
   identify this as a possible desired new appointment for the next week or month. Some embodiments
   also identify similar contextual clues in the appointment notes, or identify possible recurring
   appointments in other ways.
25 [0216]        Some embodiments always identify at least a minimum number of selectable
   items for proposed appointments (e.g., at least one, at least two, etc.). Some embodiments also
   have a maximum number of proposed appointments that will be displayed to the user. When
   there is a maximum number, some embodiments assign scores to each proposed appointment
   (e.g., based on the number of past occurrences of the appointment, the extent of similarity between
30 the appointment characteristics of the various occurrences, etc.), and display proposed
   appointments with the highest scores. When determining the order of the proposed appointments
   for display, some embodiments order the proposed appointments based on their start time
                                                       59

   1002123110
   (earliest to latest), while other embodiments order the proposed appointments from highest
   score to lowest score.
   [0217]       With the appointment options identified, the process 2800 performs a scheduling
   check to make sure that the application does not propose appointments that overlap with
 5 existing appointments in the user's calendar. Thus, the process selects (at 2815) one of the
   identified appointment options. The application may perform the subsequent operations on each
   of the proposed appointment options in random order, from earliest to latest, etc. One of
   ordinary skill in the art will also recognize that some embodiments may not perform the operations
   in a linear process, one appointment option at a time. Instead, some embodiments perform these
10 operations in parallel for the various appointment options.
   [0218]       For the selected appointment option, the process determines (at 2820) whether the
   user is busy during the time slot assigned to that appointment option. For instance, if the
   calendar application identifies a recurring appointment on Fridays from lpm-2pm, but the user
   has a different appointment scheduled at this time (or at other time slots that partially or
15 wholly overlap with the identified time, such as 12:30pm-1:30pm, or 1:30pm-2pm), then the user
   would be busy during the identified time slot. Some embodiments examine both the calendar of
   the user that is selected and to which the appointment will be assigned if created, as well as any
   other calendars of the user. Other embodiments only examine the currently selected calendar for
   overlapping appointments.
20 [0219]       When the time slot is available, the process 2800 presents (at 2825) the
   appointment option for the identified time slot. On the other hand, when the time slot is not
   available, the process modifies (at 2830) the time slot for the selected appointment option to
   an available time slot. The process then presents (at 2835) the appointment option for the
   modified time slot. In some embodiments, presenting an appointment options entails
25 displaying a selectable item in the GUI of the calendar application, which the user can select in
   order to create a new appointment in her calendar with the identified characteristics. Figures
   25-27 above illustrate examples of such proposed appointment options, though some embodiments
   provide additional details within the selectable items, such as the list of invitees for the
   proposed appointment and/or other details regarding the appointment.
30 [0220]       When required to modify a time slot for an appointment due to the existence of a
   previously-scheduled appointment overlapping or partially overlapping the time slot
   identified based on recurrence, some embodiments identify the next available time slot after
                                                        60

   1002123110
   the time slot determined based on recurrence. Other embodiments also look for time slots
   prior to the time slot determined from the recurring appointments.
   [0221]        After presenting the option (although one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize
   that some embodiments actually present all of the options to the user at once as selectable
 5 items), the process 2800 determines (at 2840) whether additional appointment options were
   identified that have not been checked for scheduling. If additional appointment options
   remain, the process returns to 2815 to select another of the identified appointment options.
   Otherwise, the process 2800 ends.
   [0222]        The above description describes the automatic generation of proposed
10 appointments by the calendar application based solely on analysis of the user's calendar
   history. In some embodiments, as the user enters text into the new appointment creation text
   field (e.g., the text field 2540 of Figure 25), the application searches the user's past calendar
   history for appointments with characteristics that match the text string (e.g., searching titles,
   invitee names or e-mail addresses, locations, etc.). The application then proposes new
15 appointments (similar to the proposed appointments discussed above) based on the identified matching
   past appointments. These possible new appointments are proposed on days and times based on
   the days and times of the matching past appointments.
   [0223]        Some embodiments of the calendar application propose appointments based solely
   on the calendar history in the manner described above by reference to Figures 25-28, while
20 other embodiments require text input in order to propose appointments based on matching the
   text input to past calendar appointments. Yet other embodiments initially propose appointments
   in the manner described above, but then also search for matching appointments and propose
   appointments in the manner subsequently described by reference to Figures 30-33 once the
   user begins entering text input.
25 [0224]        Figure 29, like Figure 24, illustrates a monthly view GUI 2900 of a user's
   schedule. The monthly view GUI 2900 will be used as a reference for the subsequent Figures 30
   32. The display of the monthly view GUI 2900 is the same as that of the GUI 2400, with a
   top bar 2905 including several tabs 2910, a search bar, a calendar toggle item, and a new
   appointment creation item 2915. The tabs 2910, search bar, and calendar toggle item operate in
30 the same manner as described above for Figure 24.
   [0225]        The new appointment creation item 2915, in some embodiments, causes the
   calendar application to display a dialog for creating a new appointment in the user's calendar.
                                                       61

   1002123110
   In some embodiments, the new appointment creation dialog provides a text field into which
   the user can enter a name of a new appointment. In some embodiments, as with the new
   appointment creation item 2415 described above, upon receipt of additional input the
   application creates a new appointment in the next available time slot. The user can also enter
 5 additional details into the text field (e.g., text clearly indicative of a time and/or date), and the
   calendar application will account for this information when creating the new appointment.
   [02261      In some embodiments, as the user enters text into the text field, the application
   searches through the user's calendar history for previous appointments that match the
   input text string, or come close to matching. For instance, as the user enters the text
10 string, the application might identify appointment titles, invitee names, locations, etc. that
   match the text string. The user might also input text indicative of a day or time (e.g.,
   "Tuesday"), causing the calendar application to identify appointments that match the input
   day/time. Based on the matching previous appointments, the calendar application
   generates proposed new appointments to present to the user, similar to the proposed
15 appointments describe by reference to the above figures.
   [02271      As in the GUI 2400, the monthly view GUI 2900 includes a monthly calendar
   2920, with the current day (May 28) highlighted. The monthly calendar 2920 indicates
   that various appointments (dinners, meetings, etc.) were scheduled over the past month.
   [02281      Figures 30 and 31 illustrate the generation of proposed new appointment
20 options in a daily view GUI 3000 of some embodiments based on user text input.
   Specifically, Figure 30 illustrates four stages 3005-3020 of the GUI 3000, in which the
   application receives selection of the new appointment creation item 2915 and subsequent
   text input, and then provides proposed new appointment creation items based on the text
   input.
25 [02291      The first stage 3005 illustrates the daily view GUI 3000 of some
   embodiments, which is similar to the daily view GUI 2500 described above. The GUI
   3000 includes the top bar 2905, miniaturized month view 3025, an upcoming appointments
   view 3030, and a schedule view 3035. These GUI sections operate in similar fashion to
   those described above for the GUI 2500 in Figure 25. The first stage 3005 illustrates that
30 the user selects the new appointment creation item 2905.
   [02301      The second stage 3010 illustrates that the application, as a result of the
   selection of the new appointment creation item 2915, displays a fillable text field 3040 with
                                                          62

   1002123110
   background example text, similar to the fillable text field 2540 described above. The user
   may enter text input into the text field 2540 in order to name a new appointment and/or
   specify other details about the new appointment. Unlike the example of Figure 25,
   however, the calendar application does not display additional proposed appointment
 5 items at this time.
   [02311       Instead, the third stage 3015 illustrates that the user has begun entering text
   into the fillable text field 3040 (e.g., using a keyboard, a touchscreen keyboard if the
   application operates on a touchscreen device, etc.). The user has entered the text "Call".
   At this stage, the user has just entered the text, and the application has not yet generated
10 any proposed new appointments to display for the user.
   [02321       The fourth stage 3020 illustrates the display of several selectable items
   3045-3055 representing proposed new appointments based on the text input and the
   user's past calendar history. In some embodiments, the application provides such
   selectable items as soon as the user starts typing (e.g., as soon as the user had typed "C"
15 the application would have been presenting possible new appointments based on the
   letter "C") and updates these with each keystroke. In other embodiments, as shown here,
   the application waits until the user has completed at least a portion of the input (e.g., until a
   space is received or the input pauses for a short amount of time).
   [02331       In this example, the three selectable items 3045-3055 propose appointments
20 based on matching the text string "Call" to the appointment title for the user's past
   appointments. The first selectable item 3045 is based on the twice-recurring event
   "Conference Call", which occurred on Monday, May 12 and Monday, May 19, at 1pm,
   but did not occur on Monday, May 26 (possibly due to Memorial Day). Had a conference
   call been scheduled for Tuesday, May 27 at 1pm, some embodiments would recognize this
25 as a recurrence of the previous two appointments on account of the Monday holiday, rather
   than proposing a Tuesday call for the following week. The user also had phone calls
   scheduled on the previous Thursday at 11 am and 1pm, and the application proposes new
   appointments based on these prior appointments with selectable items 3050 and 3055.
   The time slot from 11 am- 12am is open for the user, and therefore the selectable item
30 3050 proposes "Call 1" at the same time as the call from the previous week. However,
   the time slot from 1pm-1:30pm is already occupied on Thursday, May 29, so the
   selectable item 3055 instead proposes "Call 2" from 2pm-2:30pm.
                                                   63

   1002123110
   [02341       While in this example all three of the selectable items 3045-3055 are for
   proposed appointments based on matches with previous appointment titles, some
   embodiments match on other appointment characteristics as well. For example, some
   embodiments match over the invitee names, location, notes, etc. fields that define an
 5 appointment. When a user enters a person's name, that name might turn up matches over
   both the invitee field (i.e., appointments to which that person is an invitee) as well as the
   title field (e.g., appointments for which the person's name appears in the title).
   [02351       Once the application identifies the proposed appointments for which to
   display selectable items in the GUI, different embodiments order the selectable items
10 differently. Some embodiments generate the proposed appointments at their specific
   times, then display the appointments in time order. Other embodiments score each
   proposed appointment based on a variety of factors, and order the selectable items based
   on these scores. For instance, as in the previous examples, more commonly occurring
   appointments might score higher (e.g., the "Conference Call" proposed appointment
15 appearing before "Call 1" or "Call 2" in Figure 30. Furthermore, some embodiments
   score the proposed appointments based on the strength of the match. Thus, matching
   multiple words in an appointment title scores higher than matching one word, matching
   multiple fields is more indicative of the user's desire than matching a single field, etc.
   [02361       Figure 31 illustrates a second example of the operation of the new
20 appointment creation item 2915 over four stages 3105-3120 of the GUI 3000. The first
   two stages 3105 and 3110 are the same as the first two stages 3005-3010 of Figure 30,
   and then in the third stage 3115 the user types "Jim" into the fillable text field 3040.
   The fourth stage 3120 illustrates the selectable items 3125 and 3130 displayed based on
   this text input. In this case, the user has had a "Meeting 3" appointment at 1pm the last
25 four Fridays, for which a person named Jim is an invitee. As such, the first selectable
   item 3125 is for another recurrence of this meeting. The second selectable item 3130 is
   for an appointment titled "Discuss Jim", proposed for 5pm on the following Tuesday.
   The user's calendar, shown in Figure 29, includes a past appointment with this title on an
   earlier Tuesday at 5pm.
30 [02371       In this case, the selectable item for "Meeting 3" is listed as the first option
   because it has occurred on each of the past four Fridays. Although some embodiments
   prefer a match of the appointment title to a match of an invitee name, a proposed
   appointment based on a set of appointments that have occurred repeatedly each week
                                                   64

   1002123110
   may score higher than a proposed appointment based on a single appointment that
   occurred several weeks prior.
   [02381      Figure 32 illustrates the selection of one of the proposed appointment items
   and the resulting creation of a new appointment in the user's calendar over two stages
 5 32053210. The first stage 3205 illustrates the GUI 3000 in the same state as at the fourth
   stage 3120 of Figure 31. At this stage, the user selects the first selectable item 3125 in
   order to create a new appointment with the characteristics specified by the appointment.
   [02391      The second stage 3110 illustrates that the new appointment is created from
   1pm-1:30pm on Friday, May 15. When the application creates the new appointment, some
10 embodiments automatically select the calendar daily view to the day of the newly created
   appointment, as was shown in Figure 27 above. The application generates and displays an
   appointment representation 3215 for the newly created appointment, and displays an
   appointment details dialog 3220 that displays the characteristics of the appointment and
   allows the user to modify these characteristics. For this appointment, the application
15 automatically generated a title, time, location, invitee (Jim Smith), and notes ("Review
   of Week"). As illustrated here, the calendar generated and displayed the selectable item for
   the appointment on account of the invitee name "Jim Smith" matching the text string
   "Jim" input by the user. Though not shown in this figure, the user could subsequently
   modify the characteristics of the newly created appointment, as was shown in Figure 27.
20 [02401      Figure 33 conceptually illustrates a process 3300 of some embodiments for
   automatically generating proposed appointments based on matching text input to a user's
   past calendar appointment history. In some embodiments, this process is performed by a
   calendar application operating on a desktop or laptop computer, a mobile device, etc.,
   when the user selects a "new event" or "new appointment" option, then provides text
25 input (e.g., by typing in a text string).
   [02411      The process 3300 begins when the application receives (at 3305) text input
   describing a new event or appointment. In some embodiments, the user types this
   information into a fillable text field displayed by the calendar application after the
   application received a selection of a new appointment creation item, as shown in the first
30 three stages of Figures 30 and 32. In other embodiments, the user enters text input into a
   different GUI construct, such as a permanent text field that does not require additional
   GUI interaction to access.
                                                  65

   1002123110
   [0242]       Upon receiving the text input, the process analyzes (at 3310) the user's past
   calendar history to identify events that match the received text input. In some
   embodiments, the user of the calendar application may have multiple calendars (e.g., a
   work calendar, personal calendar, etc.). Some embodiments analyze all of the schedules
 5 together, whereas other embodiments only analyze a currently selected schedule. In
   some embodiments, analyzing the user's past calendar history entails searching the
   names, invitee lists, locations, notes, attachment file names, etc. for text strings that
   match the input string. Some embodiments also identify near-matches (e.g., based on
   common typographical errors, such as matching an input of "Meting" with "Meeting".
10 When multiple words are input, different embodiments use different interpretations of the
   text string to identify matches in the appointment history. Some embodiments interpret
   the input "a b" to require a match of the single string "a b", other embodiments require a
   match of "a" and a match of "b", while still other embodiments require a match of either
   "a" or "b". Yet other embodiments allow all of these, but prefer a full string match, then a
15 match of both terms, then a match of one of the terms.
   [02431       In analyzing the past calendar history, some embodiments do not analyze the
   user's entire previous schedule. Instead, different embodiments only analyze appointments a
   particular amount of time into the past. For example, some embodiments only analyze
   appointments from the prior month, prior three months, prior year, etc.
20 [0244]       Next, the process 3300 generates (at 3315) a set of new proposed appointments
   with appointment characteristics based on identified matched appointments, and orders (at
   3320) the set of new proposed appointments. Some embodiments have a maximum number of
   proposed appointments that will be displayed to the user, and thus only generate proposed
   appointments based on this maximum number of matched appointments. When there are more
25 matching appointments than this maximum number, some embodiments assign scores to each
   matched past appointment or series of appointments and display proposed appointments with
   the highest scores. Some embodiments score the matches based on a combination of the
   characteristic matched (e.g., preferring title to other appointment characteristics), the type of
   match (e.g., entire string matched, all words matched, only one word matched), the recurring
30 nature of the past appointment (e.g., a recurring appointment that matches will score higher),
   etc.
   [0245]       Once the set of matching appointments from which proposed appointments will be
   generated is identified, the calendar application generates the proposed appointments in a
                                                       66

   1002123110
   similar manner to that described above for Figure 28. The calendar application of some
   embodiments identifies the next day and time occurrence that matches the day/time of the past
   appointment, then proposes an appointment at that identified day and time with the same
   characteristics as the matched past appointment (e.g., the same name, set of invitees, location,
 5 etc.). When the matched appointment is a recurring appointment with some of the
   characteristics varying between appointment instances (e.g., different sets of invitees or
   different locations), some embodiments use an algorithm to determine, for each
   characteristic, which values to use for the proposed appointment. For instance, some such
   embodiments first identify, among the recurring appointment instance, which value of the
10 characteristic appeared most often. If there is a tie for the most often occurrence of the value, then
   the application uses the value for the characteristic from the most recent occurrence of the
   recurring appointment.
   [02461       To order the set of proposed appointments (i.e., those that will be displayed to
   the user), some embodiments start with the earliest proposed time. Other embodiments
15 use the scores calculated to determine which appointments to propose, with the highest
   score displayed first (e.g., at the top of a list of selectable items).
   [02471       With the appointment options identified, the process 3300 performs a
   scheduling check to make sure that the application does not propose appointments
   that overlap with existing appointments in the user's calendar. Thus, the process selects
20 (at 3325) one of the identified appointment options. The application may perform the
   subsequent operations on each of the proposed appointment options in random order,
   from earliest to latest, based on their respective matching scores, etc. One of ordinary skill
   in the art will also recognize that some embodiments may not perform the operations in a
   linear process, one appointment option at a time. Instead, some embodiments perform
25 these operations in parallel for the various appointment options.
   [02481       For the selected appointment option, the process determines (at 3330) whether
   the user is busy during the time slot assigned to that appointment option. For instance, if the
   calendar application identifies a matching appointment on previous Fridays from 1pm
   2pm, but the user has a different appointment scheduled at this time (or at other time
30 slots that partially or wholly overlap with the identified time, such as 12:30pm-1:30pm,
   or 1:30pm2pm), then the user would be busy during the identified time slot. Some
   embodiments examine both the calendar of the user that is selected and to which the
   appointment will be assigned if created, as well as any other calendars of the user. Other
                                                       67

   1002123110
   embodiments only examine the currently selected calendar for overlapping
   appointments.
   [02491       When the time slot is available, the process 3300 presents (at 3335) the
   appointment option for the identified time slot. On the other hand, when the time slot is not
 5 available, the process modifies (at 3340) the time slot for the selected appointment option
   to an available time slot. The process then presents (at 3345) the appointment option for
   the modified time slot. In some embodiments, presenting an appointment options
   entails displaying a selectable item in the GUI of the calendar application, which the user
   can select in order to create a new appointment in her calendar with the identified
10 characteristics. Figures 30-32 above illustrate examples of such proposed selectable
   appointment options, though some embodiments provide additional details within the
   selectable items, such as the list of invitees for the proposed appointment and/or other
   details regarding the appointment.
   [0250]       When required to modify a time slot for an appointment due to the existence of a
15 previously-scheduled appointment overlapping or partially overlapping the time slot
   identified based on recurrence, some embodiments identify the next available time slot after
   the time slot determined based on recurrence. Other embodiments also look for time slots
   prior to the time slot determined from the recurring appointments.
   [0251]       After presenting the option (although one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize
20 that some embodiments actually present all of the options to the user at once as selectable
   items), the process 3300 determines (at 3350) whether additional appointment options were
   identified that have not been checked for scheduling. If additional appointment options remain, the
   process returns to 3325 to select another of the identified appointment options. Otherwise, the
   process 3300 ends.
25 [0252]       As mentioned above, the processes 2800 and 3300 are not mutually exclusive. In
   some embodiments, the calendar application initially performs the process 2800 (or a similarly
   functional process) to generate proposed appointments upon the user's selection of a new
   appointment item in the calendar application GUI. If the user enters text rather than selecting
   one of the proposed appointments, then the application performs the process 3300 (or a similarly
30 functional process) to generate proposed appointments that match the entered text.
                                                     68

   1002123110
   VI       Electronic System
   [0253]       Many of the above-described features and applications are implemented as
   software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable
   storage medium (also referred to as computer readable medium). When these instructions are
 5 executed by one or more computational or processing unit(s) (e.g., one or more processors, cores
   of processors, or other processing units), they cause the processing unit(s) to perform the
   actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include, but are not
   limited to, CD-ROMs, flash drives, random access memory (RAM) chips, hard drives, erasable
   programmable read-only memories (EPROMs), electrically erasable programmable read-only
10 memories (EEPROMs), etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and
   electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.
   [02541       In this specification, the term "software" is meant to include firmware residing in
   read-only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory
   for processing by a processor. Also, in some embodiments, multiple software inventions can be
15 implemented as sub-parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software
   inventions. In some embodiments, multiple software inventions can also be implemented
   as separate programs. Finally, any combination of separate programs that together
   implement a software invention described here is within the scope of the invention. In
   some embodiments, the software programs, when installed to operate on one or more
20 electronic systems, define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and
   perform the operations of the software programs.
            A.      Mobile Device
   [02551       The user data sharing of some embodiments occurs on mobile devices, such as
   smart phones (e.g., iPhones@) and tablets (e.g., iPads@). Figure 34 is an example of an
25 architecture 3400 of such a mobile computing device. As shown, the mobile computing
   device 3400 includes one or more processing units 3405, a memory interface 3410 and a
   peripherals interface 3415.
   [02561       The peripherals interface 3415 is coupled to various sensors and subsystems,
   including a camera subsystem 3420, a wired communication subsystem(s) 3423, a wireless
30 communication subsystem(s) 3425, an audio subsystem 3430, an I/O subsystem 3435,
   etc. The peripherals interface 3415 enables communication between the processing units
   3405 and various peripherals. For example, an orientation sensor 3445 (e.g., a gyroscope)
                                                     69

   1002123110
   and an acceleration sensor 3450 (e.g., an accelerometer) is coupled to the peripherals
   interface 3415 to facilitate orientation and acceleration functions.
   [02571      The camera subsystem 3420 is coupled to one or more optical sensors 3440
   (e.g., a charged coupled device (CCD) optical sensor, a complementary metal-oxide
 5 semiconductor (CMOS) optical sensor, etc.). The camera subsystem 3420 coupled
   with the optical sensors 3440 facilitates camera functions, such as image and/or video
   data capturing. The wired communication subsystem 3423 and wireless communication
   subsystem 3425 serve to facilitate communication functions.
   [02581      In some embodiments, the wireless communication subsystem 3425 includes
10 radio frequency receivers and transmitters, and optical receivers and transmitters (not
   shown in Figure 34). These receivers and transmitters of some embodiments are
   implemented to operate over one or more communication networks such as a GSM
   network, a Wi-Fi network, a Bluetooth network, etc. The audio subsystem 3430 is
   coupled to a speaker to output audio (e.g., to output voice navigation instructions).
15 Additionally, the audio subsystem 3430 is coupled to a microphone to facilitate voice
   enabled functions in some embodiments.
   [02591      The I/O subsystem 3435 involves the transfer between input/output peripheral
   devices, such as a display, a touch screen, etc., and the data bus of the processing units
   3405 through the peripherals interface 3415. The I/O subsystem 3435 includes a touch
20 screen controller 3455 and other input controllers 3460 to facilitate the transfer between
   input/output peripheral devices and the data bus of the processing units 3405. As shown, the
   touch-screen controller 3455 is coupled to a touch screen 3465. The touch-screen
   controller 3455 detects contact and movement on the touch screen 3465 using any of
   multiple touch sensitivity technologies. The other input controllers 3460 are coupled to
25 other input/control devices, such as one or more buttons. Some embodiments include a
   near-touch sensitive screen and a corresponding controller that can detect near-touch
   interactions instead of or in addition to touch interactions.
   [02601      The memory interface 3410 is coupled to memory 3470. In some
   embodiments, the memory 3470 includes volatile memory (e.g., high-speed random
30 access memory), non-volatile memory (e.g., flash memory), a combination of volatile
   and non-volatile memory, and/or any other type of memory. As illustrated in Figure 34,
   the memory 3470 stores an operating system (OS) 3471. The OS 3471 includes
                                                 70

   1002123110
   instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent
   tasks.
   [02611      The memory 3470 additionally includes calendar application instructions 3472
   in order for the device 3400 to execute the calendar application of some embodiments.
 5 The calendar application 3472 may include instructions to perform some or all of the
   various features described herein (e.g., processing touch interactions to resize the time scale
   of the calendar layout in the application GUI, handling time zone information for
   calendar appointments, processing a user's commenting on appointment invitations,
   scheduling appointments using the calendars of others, proposing appointments based
10 on a user's calendar history, etc.).
   [02621      The memory 3470 also includes communication instructions 3474 to facilitate
   communicating with one or more additional devices (e.g., for peer-to-peer data sharing,
   or to connect to a server through the Internet for cloud-based data sharing); graphical user
   interface instructions 3476 to facilitate graphic user interface processing; image
15 processing instructions 3478 to facilitate image-related processing and functions; input
   processing instructions 3480 to facilitate input-related (e.g., touch input) processes and
   functions; audio processing instructions 3482 to facilitate audio-related processes and
   functions; and camera instructions 3484 to facilitate camera-related processes and
   functions. The instructions described above are merely exemplary and the memory 3470
20 includes additional and/or other instructions in some embodiments. For instance, the
   memory for a smartphone may include phone instructions to facilitate phone-related
   processes and functions. The above-identified instructions need not be implemented as
   separate software programs or modules. Various functions of the mobile computing
   device can be implemented in hardware and/or in software, including in one or more
25 signal processing and/or application specific integrated circuits.
   [02631      While the components illustrated in Figure 34 are shown as separate
   components, one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that two or more components
   may be integrated into one or more integrated circuits. In addition, two or more
   components may be coupled together by one or more communication buses or signal
30 lines. Also, while many of the functions have been described as being performed by one
   component, one of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the functions described with
   respect to Figure 34 may be split into two or more integrated circuits.
                                                   71

   1002123110
            B.    Computer System
   [02641      Figure 35 conceptually illustrates another example of an electronic system
   3500 with which some embodiments of the invention are implemented. The electronic
   system 3500 may be a computer (e.g., a desktop computer, personal computer, tablet
 5 computer, etc.), phone, PDA, or any other sort of electronic or computing device. Such an
   electronic system includes various types of computer readable media and interfaces for
   various other types of computer readable media. Electronic system 3500 includes a bus
   3505, processing unit(s) 3510, a graphics processing unit (GPU) 3515, a system
   memory 3520, a network 3525, a read-only memory 3530, a permanent storage device
10 3535, input devices 3540, and output devices 3545.
   [02651      The bus 3505 collectively represents all system, peripheral, and chipset buses
   that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the electronic system
   3500. For instance, the bus 3505 communicatively connects the processing unit(s) 3510
   with the read-only memory 3530, the GPU 3515, the system memory 3520, and the
15 permanent storage device 3535.
   [02661      From these various memory units, the processing unit(s) 3510 retrieves
   instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the
   invention. The processing unit(s) may be a single processor or a multi-core processor in
   different embodiments. Some instructions are passed to and executed by the GPU 3515.
20 The GPU 3515 can offload various computations or complement the image processing
   provided by the processing unit(s) 3510. In some embodiments, such functionality can be
   provided using CoreImage's kernel shading language.
   [02671      The read-only-memory (ROM) 3530 stores static data and instructions that are
   needed by the processing unit(s) 3510 and other modules of the electronic system. The
25 permanent storage device 3535, on the other hand, is a read-and-write memory device.
   This device is a non-volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when
   the electronic system 3500 is off. Some embodiments of the invention use a mass-storage
   device (such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive, integrated
   flash memory) as the permanent storage device 3535.
30 [02681      Other embodiments use a removable storage device (such as a floppy disk,
   flash memory device, etc., and its corresponding drive) as the permanent storage device.
   Like the permanent storage device 3535, the system memory 3520 is a read-and-write
                                                 72

   1002123110
   memory device. However, unlike storage device 3535, the system memory 3520 is a
   volatile read-andwrite memory, such a random access memory. The system memory 3520
   stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some
   embodiments, the invention's processes are stored in the system memory 3520, the
 5 permanent storage device 3535, and/or the read-only memory 3530. For example, the
   various memory units include instructions for processing multimedia clips in accordance
   with some embodiments. From these various memory units, the processing unit(s) 3510
   retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of
   some embodiments.
10 [02691      The bus 3505 also connects to the input and output devices 3540 and 3545.
   The input devices 3540 enable the user to communicate information and select
   commands to the electronic system. The input devices 3540 include alphanumeric
   keyboards and pointing devices (also called "cursor control devices"), cameras (e.g.,
   webcams), microphones or similar devices for receiving voice commands, etc. The output
15 devices 3545 display images generated by the electronic system or otherwise output data.
   The output devices 3545 include printers and display devices, such as cathode ray tubes
   (CRT) or liquid crystal displays (LCD), as well as speakers or similar audio output
   devices. Some embodiments include devices such as a touchscreen that function as both
   input and output devices.
20 [02701      Finally, as shown in Figure 35, bus 3505 also couples electronic system 3500
   to a network 3525 through a network adapter (not shown). In this manner, the computer
   can be a part of a network of computers (such as a local area network ("LAN"), a wide
   area network ("WAN"), or an Intranet), or a network of networks, such as the Internet. Any
   or all components of electronic system 3500 may be used in conjunction with the
25 invention.
   [02711      Some embodiments include electronic components, such as microprocessors,
   storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine-readable or
   computer-readable medium (alternatively referred to as computer-readable storage
   media, machine-readable media, or machine-readable storage media). Some examples of
30 such computer-readable media include RAM, ROM, read-only compact discs (CD
   ROM), recordable compact discs (CD-R), rewritable compact discs (CD-RW), read
   only digital versatile discs (e.g., DVD-ROM, dual-layer DVD-ROM), a variety of
   recordable/rewritable DVDs (e.g., DVD-RAM, DVD-RW, DVD+RW, etc.), flash
                                                 73

   1002123110
   memory (e.g., SD cards, mini-SD cards, micro-SD cards, etc.), magnetic and/or solid
   state hard drives, read-only and recordable Blu-Ray@ discs, ultra density optical discs,
   any other optical or magnetic media, and floppy disks. The computer-readable media
   may store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and
 5 includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer
   programs or computer code include machine code, such as is produced by a compiler, and
   files including higher-level code that are executed by a computer, an electronic
   component, or a microprocessor using an interpreter.
   [02721       While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi-core
10 processors that execute software, some embodiments are performed by one or more
   integrated circuits, such as application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) or field
   programmable gate arrays (FPGAs). In some embodiments, such integrated circuits
   execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself. In addition, some embodiments
   execute software stored in programmable logic devices (PLDs), ROM, or RAM devices.
15 [02731       As used in this specification and any claims of this application, the terms
   "computer", "server", "processor", and "memory" all refer to electronic or other
   technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes
   of the specification, the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic
   device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application, the terms
20 "computer readable medium," "computer readable media," and "machine readable
   medium" are entirely restricted to tangible, physical objects that store information in a
   form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals, wired
   download signals, and any other ephemeral signals.
   [0274]       While the invention has been described with reference to numerous specific
25 details, one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention can be embodied in
   other specific forms without departing from the spirit of the invention. In addition, a number of the
   figures (including Figures 4 and 5) conceptually illustrate processes. The specific operations of
   these processes may not be performed in the exact order shown and described. The specific
   operations may not be performed in one continuous series of operations, and different specific
30 operations may be performed in different embodiments. Furthermore, the process could be
   implemented using several sub-processes, or as part of a larger macro process. Thus, one of
   ordinary skill in the art would understand that the invention is not to be limited by the foregoing
   illustrative details, but rather is to be defined by the appended claims.
                                                       74

   1002123110
   CLAIMS
   We claim:
 5 1.       A method comprising:
   at a portable electronic device with a display and one or more input devices:
            receiving, via the one or more input devices, a request to select a time for an
   appointment that includes a set of proposed attendees;
            in response to the request to select the time for the appointment, concurrently
10 displaying, on the display, a plurality of selectable options that correspond to proposed times
   for the appointment and a selectable item for showing additional times for the appointment,
   wherein:
                    the proposed times for the appointment are based on calendars of the
   proposed attendees;
15                  the selectable item for showing additional times for the appointment is
   smaller in size than a selectable option of the plurality of selectable options; and
                    the plurality of selectable options that are concurrently displayed on the
   display includes:
                            a first selectable option that corresponds to a first time for the
20 appointment at which all proposed attendees, including an organizer of the appointment, are
   available to attend the appointment;
                            a second selectable option that corresponds to a second time for the
   appointment at which a subset of the proposed attendees are available to attend the
   appointment and one or more of the proposed attendees are not available to attend the
25 appointment;
            receiving, via the one or more input devices, user selection of the selectable item for
   showing additional times for the appointment; and
            in response to receiving the user selection of the selectable item for showing
   additional times for the appointment, while maintaining display of the first selectable option
30 on the display, replacing display of the second selectable option with a third selectable
   option that corresponds to a third time for the appointment at which all proposed attendees,
   including the organizer of the appointment, are available to attend the appointment, wherein
   the third time is different from the first time.
                                                     75

   1002123110
   2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the first time is an earliest future time at which all
   proposed attendees, including the organizer of the appointment, are available to attend the
   appointment.
 5 3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the additional times for the appointment comprise a
   plurality of times within a threshold time range at which all proposed attendees are available
   to attend.
   4.       The method of claim 3, wherein the threshold time range is one week.
10
   5.       The method of claim 1, further comprising:
            receiving, via the one or more input devices, user selection of a selectable option of
   the plurality of selectable options;
            in response to receiving the user selection of the selectable option, causing an
15 electronic calendar application to display a calendar of the organizer of the appointment with
   the appointment at a time corresponding to the selected selectable option.
   6.       The method of claim 1, wherein the appointment has an initial proposed time, and
   wherein the method further comprises concurrently displaying, with the plurality of
20 selectable options, a list of proposed attendees unavailable for the appointment at the initial
   proposed time.
   7.       The method of claim 1, further comprising:
            displaying a third selectable item for requesting additional proposed times at which
25 subsets of the proposed attendees are available to attend the appointment and one or more of
   the proposed attendees are not available to attend the appointment;
            receiving, via the one or more input devices, user selection of the third selectable
   item; and
            in response to receiving the user selection of the third selectable item, displaying
30 additional times at which different subsets of the proposed attendees are available to attend
   the appointment and one or more of the proposed attendees are not available to attend the
   appointment.
                                                    76

   1002123110
   8.       The method of claim 7, wherein a particular proposed attendee is available for a first
   one of the additional times and is not available for a second one of the additional times.
   9.       A machine readable medium storing a program which when executed by at least one
 5 processing unit creates an appointment for an electronic calendar application of a portable
   electronic device with a display and one or more input devices, the program comprising sets
   of instructions for:
            receiving, via the one or more input devices, a request to select a time for an
   appointment that includes a set of proposed attendees;
10          in response to the request to select the time for the appointment, concurrently
   displaying, on the display, a plurality of selectable options that correspond to proposed times
   for the appointment and a selectable item for showing additional times for the appointment,
   wherein:
                    the proposed times for the appointment are based on calendars of the
15 proposed attendees;
                    the selectable item for showing additional times for the appointment is
   smaller in size than a selectable option of the plurality of selectable options; and
                    the plurality of selectable options that are concurrently displayed on the
            display includes:
20                          a first selectable option that corresponds to a first time for the
   appointment at which all proposed attendees, including an organizer of the appointment, are
   available to attend the appointment;
                            a second selectable option that corresponds to a second time for the
   appointment at which a subset of the proposed attendees are available to attend the
25 appointment and one or more of the proposed attendees are not available to attend the
   appointment;
            receiving, via the one or more input devices, user selection of the selectable item for
   showing additional times for the appointment; and
            in response to receiving the user selection of the selectable item for showing
30 additional times for the appointment, while maintaining display of the first selectable option
   on the display, replacing display of the second selectable option with a third selectable
   option that corresponds to a third time for the appointment at which all proposed attendees,
   including the organizer of the appointment, are available to attend the appointment, wherein
   the third time is different from the first time.
                                                     77

   1002123110
   10.      The machine readable medium of claim 9, wherein the first time is an earliest future
   time at which all proposed attendees, including the organizer of the appointment, are
   available to attend the appointment.
 5
   11.      The machine readable medium of claim 9, wherein the additional times for the
   appointment comprise a plurality of times within a threshold time range at which all
   proposed attendees are available to attend.
10 12.      The machine readable medium of claim 6, wherein the threshold time range is one
   week.
   13.      The machine readable medium of claim 9, wherein the program further comprises a
   set of instructions for:
15          receiving, via the one or more input devices, user selection of a selectable option of
   the plurality of selectable options; and
            in response to receiving the user selection of the selectable option, causing the
   electronic calendar application to display a calendar of the organizer of the appointment with
   the appointment at a time corresponding to the selected selectable option.
20
   14.      A portable electronic device, comprising:
            a display;
            one or more input devices;
            a set of processing units; and
25          a machine readable medium storing a program which when executed by at least one
   of the processing units creates an appointment for an electronic calendar application of the
   portable electronic device, the program comprising sets of instructions for:
                    receiving, via the one or more input devices, a request to select a time for an
   appointment that includes a set of proposed attendees;
30                  in response to the request to select the time for the appointment, concurrently
   displaying, on the display, a plurality of selectable options that correspond to proposed times
   for the appointment and a selectable item for showing additional times for the appointment,
   wherein:
                                                    78

   1002123110
                            the proposed times for the appointment are based on calendars of the
   proposed attendees;
                            the selectable item for showing additional times for the appointment
   is smaller in size than a selectable option of the plurality of selectable options; and
 5                          the plurality of selectable options that are concurrently displayed on
   the display includes:
                                    a first selectable option that corresponds to a first time for the
   appointment at which all proposed attendees, including an organizer of the appointment, are
   available to attend the appointment;
10                          a second selectable option that corresponds to a second time for the
   appointment at which a subset of the proposed attendees are available to attend the
   appointment and one or more of the proposed attendees are not available to attend the
   appointment;
                    receiving, via the one or more input devices, user selection of the selectable
15 item for showing additional times for the appointment; and
                            in response to receiving the user selection of the selectable item for
   showing additional times for the appointment, while maintaining display of the first
   selectable option on the display, replacing display of the second selectable option with a
   third selectable option that corresponds to a third time for the appointment at which all
20 proposed attendees, including the organizer of the appointment, are available to attend the
   appointment, wherein the third time is different from the first time.
   15.      The device of claim 14, wherein the appointment has an initial proposed time, and
   wherein the program further comprises a set of instructions for concurrently displaying, with
25 the plurality of selectable options, a list of proposed attendees unavailable for the
   appointment at the initial proposed time.
   16.      The device of claim 14, wherein the program further comprises sets of instructions
   for:
30          displaying a third selectable item for requesting additional proposed times at which
   subsets of the proposed attendees are available to attend the appointment and one or more of
   the proposed attendees are not available to attend the appointment;
            receiving, via the one or more input devices, user selection of the third selectable
   item; and
                                                      79

   1002123110
            displaying additional times at which different subsets of the proposed attendees are
   available to attend the appointment and one or more of the proposed attendees are not
   available to attend the appointment.
 5 17.      The device of claim 16, wherein a particular proposed attendee is available for a first
   one of the additional times and is not available for a second one of the additional times.
   18.      The method of claim 1, wherein the second time is before the first time.
10 19.      The machine readable medium of claim 9, wherein the second time is before the first
   time.
   20.      The device of claim 14, wherein the second time is before the first time.
15 21.      The device of claim 14, wherein the program further comprises sets of instructions
   for:
            receiving, via the one or more input devices, user selection of a selectable option of
   the plurality of selectable options; and
            in response to receiving the user selection of the selectable option, causing the
20 electronic calendar application to display a calendar of the organizer of the appointment with
   the appointment at a time corresponding to the selected selectable option.
   22.      The method of claim 1, wherein prior to receiving, via the one or more input devices,
   the user selection of the selectable item for showing additional times for the appointment,
25 the plurality of selectable options that are concurrently displayed on the display does not
   include the third selectable option.
   23.      The machine readable medium of claim 9, wherein prior to receiving, via the one or
   more input devices, the user selection of the selectable item for showing additional times for
30 the appointment, the plurality of selectable options that are concurrently displayed on the
   display does not include the third selectable option.
   24.      The device of claim 14, wherein prior to receiving, via the one or more input
   devices, the user selection of the selectable item for showing additional times for the
                                                   80

1002123110
appointment, the plurality of selectable options that are concurrently displayed on the
display does not include the third selectable option.
                                               81

                                                                                                            <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
       141               136        137     138     100
                      12:30PM                                              12:30PM                                      12:30PM
               May                                                May                                            May
140          S M     T   W      T   F S      135                S M       T   W      T   F S                   S M     T   W      T   F S
             4   5   6   7      8   9 10                        4   5     6   7      8   9 10                  4   5   6   7      8   9 10
                                                                                                               5
             1                                                  1
                                     150
             2                              155                 2                                                                       160
             3                                                  3
                                                                                                               6
             4                                                  4
145          5                                                  5
                                     160                                                                                               165
             6                              165                 6
                                                                                                               7
             7                                                  7
             8                                                  8
             9                              170                 9
                                                                                                                8
             Today   Calendars      Inbox                       Today     Calendars      Inbox                 Today   Calendars       Inbox
                                              149
 151         105                    153                          110                                           115
                         152
                                                                                                                                                    1/35
                      12:30PM                                              12:30PM                                      12:30PM
               May                                                May                                            May
             S M     T   W      T   F S                         S M       T   W      T   F S                   S M     T   W      T   F S
             4   5   6   7      8   9 10                        4   5     6   7      8   9 10                  4   5   6   7      8   9 10
             1
             2                                                  6                                              6
             3
             4
             5
             6                                      "Tap Tap"                                                                         165
             7
             8                                                  7                                              7
             9
             Today   Calendars      Inbox                       Today     Calendars      Inbox                 Today   Calendars       Inbox
             130                                                    125                                         120
                                                                                                 Figure 1

                                            2/35
<removed-date>
                                             100
<removed-apn>
                May                                        May
              S M       T   W   T   F S                  S M       T     W   T   F S
              4   5     6   7   8   9 10                 4   5     6     7   8   9 10
              1
              2                                          6
              3
              4
              5
              6
              7
              8                                          7
              9
              Today     Calendars   Inbox                Today     Calendars     Inbox
              205                                        210
                                                                   225
                  May                                        May
              S    M    T   W   T   F S                  S    M    T     W   T   F S
              4     5   6   7   8   9 10                 4     5   6     7   8   9 10
              6                                          6
                                                   145
              7                                          7
              Today     Calendars   Inbox                Today     Calendars     Inbox
              220                                        215
                                            Figure 2

                                                       3/35
<removed-date>
                                                      100
                      May                                       May
                    S M     T   W   T   F S                   S M     T   W   T   F S
                    4   5   6   7   8   9 10                  4   5   6   7   8   9 10
                                                325
<removed-apn>
                    1                                          1
                    2                           330            2
                    3                                          3
                    4                                          4
              145   5                                          5
                    6                            335           6
                    7                                          7
                                                340
                    8                                          8
                    9                                          9
                                                 345
                    Today   Calendars   Inbox                 Today   Calendars   Inbox
                    305                                        310
                      May                                       May
                    S M     T   W   T   F S                   S M     T   W   T   F S
                    4   5   6   7   8   9 10                  4   5   6   7   8   9 10
                                                              12
                    11                                         1
                    1                                          2
                                                               3
                    3                                          4
                    5                                          5
                                                               6
                    7                                          7
                    9                                          8
                                                               9
                    11                                        10
                                                              11
                    Today   Calendars   Inbox                 Today   Calendars   Inbox
                    320                                       315
                                           Figure 3

                                                       4/35
<removed-date>
                                                          400
              430    MAY     5          6          7             MAY     5         6          7
                           Monday    Tuesday   Wednesday Th            Monday   Tuesday   Wednesday Th
                    all day                                     all day
<removed-apn>
              435      3                                           3
                      4                                           4
              440
                      5                                           5
                      6                                           6
                     405                                         410
                     MAY      5         6          7             MAY     5         6          7
                           Monday    Tuesday   Wednesday Th            Monday   Tuesday   Wednesday Th
                    all day                                     all day
                       3                                           3
                       4
                         "Tap Tap"
                       5
                       6                                                         445
                       7                                          4
                       8
                       9
                      10
                          420                                         415
                                               455
                                                                                    450
                     MAY     5          6          7
                           Monday    Tuesday   Wednesday Th
                    all day
                       3
                      4
                      5
                      6
                     425
                                                     Figure 4

                                                                                                         <removed-apn>                     <removed-date>
                                                            Size of displayed
                          Increase text                     event increases                                                            500
                        size for event in                   past a threshold
                            calendar                         of second type          First type of
                                                                                    gestural input             Size of event
                       520                                                            continues              increases past a
                                                                                                             threshold of rst
                                                                                                                   type
                                                                            Increase size of
                                                   Receive                    time units in                            Display additional
                                                                                calendar                             information for event
                                                   rst type of
                                                   gestural
                             Receive third type      input                                                                               515
                                                                                 First type of    510
                                 of input
                                                                                gestural input
                                                                                    ceases
Return size of time
                                                  Display calendar                                                                                    5/35
units in calendar to
                                                      statically
       default                                                                                          Size of displayed
                                                        505
                                                                                                        event decreases
                                                                            Second type of
                                                                                                        past a threshold
540                                                                          gestural input
                                                                                                         of second type          Decrease text
                                                                                ceases                                          size for event in
                                                                                                                                    calendar
                                                    Receive
                                                  second type               Decrease size of
                                                   of gestural                time units in                                                    535
                                                      input                     calendar
                                                      525        Second type of
                                                                  gestural input
                                                                    continues                                               Remove displayed
                                                                                                Size of displayed            information from
                                                                                              event decreases past                 event
                              Figure 5                                                         a threshold of rst
                                                                                                      type                                   530

                                                                                                   <removed-apn>                     <removed-date>
              12:40PM                       138                12:40PM               600                          12:40PM
  May
                                                  Cancel     Add Event       Done                   Cancel        Add Event     Done
S M       T     W       T   F S
4   5     6     7       8   9 10
                                                  Lunch w/ John                                     Lunch w/ John
 1                                                Cafe Local                                        Cafe Local
 2                                                                                  635
                                                  All-Day                                           All-Day
 3
 4                                                Starts May 6, 2014 2pm PDT                        Starts May 6, 2014 2pm PDT
 5                                                Ends May 6, 2014 3pm PDT                             Sun May 4 12 50
 6                                                                                                     Mon May 5     1 55 AM
                                                  Repeats                  Never            640        Tue May 6     2 00 PM
 7
 8                                                                                                     Wed May 7     3 05
                                                  Invitees                 None                        Thu May 8     4 10
 9
                                                                                                    Time Zone       Cupertino
Today     Calendars         Inbox                                                          645      Ends May 6, 2014 3pm PDT
605                                   100          610                                               615
                                                                                                                                                6/35
                                                                                                  655
             12:40PM                                        12:40PM                                              12:40PM
                                                                                                                                       650
Cancel    Add Event          Done                  Add Event Time Zone                      660         Add Event Time Zone
                                                     new y               x Cancel                         new y             x Cancel
Lunch w/ John
Cafe Local                                        New York, U.S.A.                                  New York, U.S.A.
All-Day                                                                                                                                 670
Starts May 6, 2014 5pm EDT
   Sun May 4     3 50
   Mon May 5     4 55 AM
                                                  Q W E R T Y U I O P                               Q W E R T Y U I O P
   Tue May 6     5 00 PM
  Wed May 7      6 05                              A S D F G H J K L                                    A S D F G H J K L
   Thu May 8     7 10                 645                                                                                              665
                                                        Z X C V B N M x                                    Z X C V B N M x
Time Zone       New York
                                                  123           space      return                   123             space     return
Ends May 6, 2014 6pm EDT
630                                                 625                                                 620
                                    Figure 6

                                                                               <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
      Device Located in Pacific Time Zone         100         Device Located in Eastern Time Zone       100
                       8:00AM                                               11:00AM
             May                                                     May
           S M     T     W      T   F S                            S M     T   W      T   F S
           4   5   6     7      8   9 10                           4   5   6   7      8   9 10
                                            705                                                   805
           9                                                       12
           10                                                       1
           11                                                       2
           12                                                       3
145        1                                710         145         4                             810                   7/35
           2                                                        5
           3                                                        6
           4                                                        7
           5                                                        8
           Today   Calendars        Inbox                          Today   Calendars      Inbox
                Figure 7                                                Figure 8

                                                 8/35
<removed-date>                                                                            900
                                       Start
                                                                        905
<removed-apn>
                      Identify events to display in calendar
                                                                        910
                              Select identi ed event
                                                                                                     920
                                                         915
                                                                              Display representation of event
                                                                                in calendar at speci ed time
                                Time zone speci ed                Yes              without additional time
                            for event same as location
                                                                              information, using appearance
                                    of device?
                                                                               for events for which local time
                                                                                      zone is speci ed
                                          No
                                                                        925
                    Identify event time in current time zone of
                                      device
                                                                        930
               Display representation of event in calendar at
                  identi ed time in current time zone with
                additional information about speci ed time
               zone, using appearance for events for which
                      non-local time zone is speci ed
                                                          935
              Yes
                                Additional events?
                                          No
                                       End
                                    Fig. 9

                                                                         <removed-apn>                       <removed-date>
                        1025                                     100                                      1000
       1030                                                                     1035        1040
              12:35PM                       12:35PM                                    12:35PM
                                 May                                                                        1045
                               S M      T     W       T   F S                    New      Replied Done
                               4   5    6     7       8   9 10           Lunch Meeting
                                                                         From: Alan           1055
   1020                        1                                         Thursday at 12:00 pm
                               2                                         Accept Maybe Decline
                               3                                         2 Invitees Declined                     1050
                               4                                         John: "Can't make it."                         9/35
                               5                                         Meeting 2
                               6                                         Today at 5:00 pm          1060
                               7                                            Ok         View Comments
                               8
                               9                                   153
                               Today    Calendars Inbox(2)
1005                           1010                                      1015
                                       Figure 10

                                                                                           <removed-apn>                    <removed-date>
                  12:35PM                   1000             12:35PM                                 12:35PM
                New     Replied Done                      New    Replied Done                      New    Replied Done
        Lunch Meeting                              Lunch Meeting                           Lunch Meeting
        From: Alan                         1135    From: Alan                              From: Alan
        Thursday at 12:00 pm                       Thursday at 12:00 pm           1150     Thursday at 12:00 pm
        Accept Maybe Decline                       Accept Maybe Decline                    Accept Maybe Decline
        Conference Call                              Comment to Organizer
                                                                                             I won't make          X
1140    From: Dale
        Thursday at 2:00 pm
                                                   Conference Call
        Accept Maybe Decline                       From: Dale                              Q W E R T Y U I O P
                                                   Thursday at 2:00 pm
        Dinner Reservations                                                                 A S D F G H J K L
                                                   Accept Maybe Decline                                                    1155
        From: Mary                                                                               Z X C V B N M
                                           1145    Dinner Reservations
        Thursday at 6:00 pm                                                                123           space   return
                                                   From: Mary
       1105                                        1110                                    1115
                                                                         1045                                                          10/35
                     12:35PM                 100             12:35PM                                 12:35PM
         May
       S M       T     W       T   F S                    New    Replied Done                      New    Replied Done
       4   5     6     7       8   9 10            Lunch Meeting                           Lunch Meeting
                                                   From: Alan                              From: Alan
        1                                          Thursday at 12:00 pm                    Thursday at 12:00 pm
        2                                          Accept Maybe Decline                    Accept Maybe Decline
        3
        4                                            I won't make it on time                 I won't make it on time X
        5
        6
                                                   Conference Call
                                                                                           Q W E R T Y U I O P
        7                                          From: Dale
                                                   Thursday at 2:00 pm                      A S D F G H J K L
        8
        9                                          Accept Maybe Decline                          Z X C V B N M
                                                   Dinner Reservations                     123           space   return
        Today    Calendars Inbox(2)
       1130                                        1125                                     1120
                                     153
                                                                               Figure 11

                                                                                      <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
                                                                                                                         100
         12:35PM             1000                    12:35PM                                        12:35PM
                                                                                         May
       New   Replied Done                         New    Replied Done                  S M      T     W       T   F S
Lunch Meeting               1135           Lunch Meeting                               4   5    6     7       8   9 10
From: Alan                                 From: Alan
                                                                                        1
Thursday at 12:00 pm                       Thursday at 12:00 pm
                            1150                                                        2
Accept Maybe Decline                       Accept Maybe Decline
                                                                                        3
 I won't make it on time                     I won't make it on time                    4
                            1140                                                        5
Conference Call                            Conference Call                              6
From: Dale                                 From: Dale                                   7
Thursday at 2:00 pm                        Thursday at 2:00 pm                          8
Accept Maybe Decline                                                    1230                                             153
                                           Accept Maybe Decline                         9
Dinner Reservations                          Comment to Organizer                      Today    Calendars Inbox(1)
1205                                       1210                                        1215
                                                                                                                                 11/35
                                                     12:35PM                                     12:35PM
                                                  New    Replied Done                          New     Replied Done
                                                                               1145
                                           Lunch Meeting                                Dinner Reservations
                                           From: Alan                                   From: Mary
                                           Thursday at 12:00 pm                         Thursday at 6:00 pm
                                           Accept Maybe Decline                         Accept Maybe Decline
                                    1050
                                           Conference Call
                                           From: Dale
         Figure 12                         Thursday at 2:00 pm
                                           Accept Maybe Decline
                                           1225                                        1220

                                                                <removed-apn>                    <removed-date>
          12:35PM                     12:35PM            1045                  12:35PM
                                                                    May
       New    Replied Done          New   Replied Done            S M      T     W       T   F S
 Lunch Meeting               Lunch Meeting                        4   5    6     7       8   9 10
 From: Alan                  From: Alan
                                                                  1
 Thursday at 12:00 pm        Thursday at 12:00 pm
                                                                  2
 Accept Maybe Decline        Accept Maybe Decline
                                                                  3
  I won't make it on time     I won't make it on time             4
                                                                  5
 Conference Call             Conference Call                      6
 From: Dale                  From: Dale                           7
 Today at 2:00 pm            Thursday at 2:00 pm                  8
 Accept Maybe Decline        Accept Maybe Decline                 9
 Dinner Reservations         Dinner Reservations                  Today    Calendars Inbox(1)
1305                         1310                                 1315
                                                                                                            12/35
                                      12:35PM                               12:35PM
                                    New   Replied Done                    New     Replied Done
                             Lunch Meeting                        Dinner Reservations
                             From: Alan                           From: Mary
                             Thursday at 12:00 pm                 Thursday at 6:00 pm
                             Accept Maybe Decline                 Accept Maybe Decline
       Figure 13             Conference Call
                             From: Dale
                             Thursday at 2:00 pm
                             Accept Maybe Decline
                             1325                                 1320

                                                                                                           <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                                     Mark event as                                                                   1400
                              Receive                   maybe
                             selection of                1415
     Display event
                                event                                  Receive
       details UI                                                                                           Mark event as
         1410                                                        selection to
                                                                                                              accepted
                                                                     respond as
                                                                                                                1420
                                                                      unsure of
          Receive                                                    attendance
           input to                                                   for event                                  Receive
          return to
                                                                                                                selection to
            inbox
                                                                                                               accept event
                   1445
  Send response
communications for                               Display inbox w/ new                                              Mark event as
  any events with         Receive input to         communications                   Receive selection                declined
 response marked          complete inbox                   1405                      to decline event                  1425
                             activities                                                                                                            13/35
                          Receive selection                       Receive
    Return to                                                                                                    Display comment
                          of comment eld                         selection
 calendar layout                                                                                                   field for event
                                                                 outside of
      1450                                                                                                               1430
                                                               comment eld
                                            Display keyboard
                                               over inbox
         Figure 14                                1435
                                                                                      Enter text into
                                                            Receive
                                                                                     selected text field
                                                         keyboard input
                                                                                           1440

                                                                                           <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
               12:30PM                  138                12:40PM              600                                       1500
                                                                                                      12:30 PM
  May
                                              Cancel     Add Event     Done
S M           T   W      T   F S                                                           Cancel Add Invitees    Done
4   5         6   7      8   9 10             Lunch w/ John                                To:                       +
                                                                                                        1555
 1                                            Cafe Local                                                                  1545
 2
                                              All-Day
 3
 4                                            Starts May 6, 2014 2pm PDT
 5                                            Ends May 6, 2014 3pm PDT
 6
                                                                                           Q W E R T Y U I O P
 7                                            Repeats                 Never
 8                                                                                           A S D F G H J K L
                                                                                                                          1540
 9                                            Invitees                None                        Z X C V B N M x
Today         Calendars      Inbox                                                         123          space    return
                                      100
1505                                          1510                                         1515
                                                           1535
                                                                                                                                   14/35
              12:30 PM                                     12:30 PM                                   12:30 PM
Cancel Add Invitees           Done            Cancel Add Invitees      Done                Cancel Add Invitees     Done
To:    John Duo,                 +            To: j                       +    1555         To: j                    +
                                              John Duo                                      John Duo
       1560                                    johnduo@email.com                            johnduo@email.com
                                              Jim Su                                                                      1550
                                                                                            Jim Su
                                               jimsu@email.com                              jimsu@email.com
Q W E R T Y U I O P                           Q W E R T Y U I O P                           Q W E R T Y U I O P
  A S D F G H J K L                             A S D F G H J K L                            A S D F G H J K L
       Z X V B N N M x                               Z X V B N N M x                               Z X V B N N M x
123               space      return           123            space    return                123          space   return
1530                                           1525                            Figure 15    1520

                                                                                      <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
                  12:30 PM            1500               12:30 PM                             12:30 PM
       Cancel Add Invitees    Done           Cancel Add Invitees     Done           Cancel Add Invitees    Done
       To:    John Duo,           +          To:     John Duo, b        +           To:   John Duo, b          +
                                                                             1635
                                             Bob Smith                              Bob Smith
                                               bobsmith@email.com                     bobsmith@email.com
       Q W E R T Y U I O P                   Q W E R T Y U I O P                    Q W E R T Y U I O P
         A S D F G H J K L                     A S D F G H J K L                      A S D F G H J K L
              Z X V B N N M x                      Z X V B N N M x                        Z X V B N N M x
       123          space    return          123           space    return          123         space     return
       1605                                   1610                                   1615
                                                                                                                                 15/35
                  12:30 PM                               12:30 PM                             12:30 PM
       Cancel Add Invitees    Done                                                                                  1640
                                             Cancel Add Invitees Done               Cancel Add Invitees    Done
1650   To: John Duo, x Bob Smith             To: John Duo, x Bob Smith              To:   John Duo, x Bob Smith
                                +             s                       +      1645                              +
        ? Sam Jr.,                                                                   s
                                             Sam Jr.
                                               sammy@email.com
       Q W E R T Y U I O P                   Q W E R T Y U I O P                    Q W E R T Y U I O P
         A S D F G H J K L                     A S D F G H J K L                      A S D F G H J K L
              Z X C V B N M x                      Z X C V B N M x                        Z X V B N N M x
       123          space    return          123           space    return          123         space     return
       1630                                   1625                                    1620
                                                                    Figure 16

                                              16/35
<removed-date>                                                                         1700
                                  Start
                                                                1705
<removed-apn>
              Receive addition of new invitee to proposed
                             appointment
                                                                1710
              Attempt to access calendar of invitee through
                                network                                                    1720
                                                   1715
                                                                   Display indication that
                            Invitee's calendar            No      availability of invitee for
                               accessible?                       appointment time cannot
                                                                       be determined
                                      Yes                       1725
               Determine availability of invitee for time of
                            appointment
                                                                                           1740
                                                   1730
                                                          No       Display indication that
                            Invitee available at
                                                                  invitee is unavailable at
                          time of appointment?
                                                                     appointment time
                                      Yes                       1735
              Display indication that invitee is available at
                           appointment time
                                   End
                               Fig. 17

                                                                                        <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
1500                                1830                                 1800
                 2:40 PM                                2:40PM                                      2:40PM
                                               Add Event Invitees        1835             Add Event Invitees
       Cancel Add Invitees Done
       To: John Duo, x Bob Smith              Responded                          1855    Scheduling Con ict
                                +                                                            Thursday, May 8, 2014     1860
        ? Sam Jr., x Jane Lee,                No Response
                                                                                1850         1pm -2pm
                                                John                                      X Bob                   i
                                              X Bob                                       X Jane
                                                                         1840
                                              ? Sam                                      All Invitees Can Attend
                                              X Jane                                     Monday, May 11, 2014
                                                                                                                i
       Q W E R T Y U I O P                    Add Invitees                               5pm - 6pm
                                              Scheduling Con ict                            Everyone Can Attend
         A S D F G H J K L
                                       1845     Thursday, May 8, 2014           1870              Show More...
             Z X C V B N M x                    1pm -2pm                                 Some Invitees Can Attend
                  space    return                                    i
       123                                     X Bob                                     Friday, May 9, 2014
        1805                                  1810                                       1815
                                                                                                                                 17/35
                                                        2:40PM                                      2:40PM
                                                Add Event Invitees                        Add Event Invitees
                                              All Invitees Can Attend                    All Invitees Can Attend
                                              Monday, May 11, 2014                       Monday, May 11, 2014
                                                                     i                                          i
                                              5pm -6pm                          1865     5pm - 6pm                     1875
                                                 Everyone Can Attend                        Everyone Can Attend
                                       1880                                                       Show More...
                                              Tuesday, May 12, 2014                      Some Invitees Can Attend
                                              10am -11am             i
                                                                                         Friday, May 9, 2014
                                                 Everyone Can Attend                     2pm - 3pm              i
                                       1885   Tuesday, May 12, 2014             1890     X Bob
                                              11am -12pm             i                   Friday, May 9, 2014
                                                 Everyone Can Attend                     4pm - 5pm                 i
               Figure 18                                                                 X Jane
                                              1825                                       1820

                                                 18/35
<removed-date>
                                               1800
<removed-apn>
                         2:40PM                                        2:40PM
               Add Event Invitees                            Add Event Invitees
              All Invitees Can Attend                                Show More...
                                                            Some Invitees Can Attend    1925
              Monday, May 11, 2014
                                     i                      Friday, May 9, 2014
              5pm - 6pm
                                                            2pm - 3pm              i
                 Everyone Can Attend
                                                            X Bob
                       Show More...                                                     1930
              Some Invitees Can Attend                      Friday, May 9, 2014
                                                     1890   4pm - 5pm               i
              Friday, May 9, 2014
              2pm - 3pm                                     X Jane
                                     i                                                  1935
              X Bob                                         Monday, May 11, 2014
                                                            9am - 10am
              Friday, May 9, 2014
                                                             X John                 i   1940
              4pm - 5pm                 i
              X Jane                                               Show More...
              1905                                          1910
                         2:40PM                                        2:40PM
               Add Event Invitees                            Add Event Invitees
              Monday, May 12, 2014                          Some Invitees Can Attend
              9am - 10am                                    Friday, May 9, 2014
               X John                   i                   2pm - 3pm              i
                                              1945
                                                            X Bob
              Thursday, May 8, 2014
              9am - 10am                                    Friday, May 9, 2014
                                        i                   4pm - 5pm               i
               X John
                                                            X Jane
               X Jane
                                                            Monday, May 12, 2014
              Friday, May 9, 2014             1950          9am - 10am
              10am - 11am                                    X John                 i
               X Bob                    i
                                                            Thursday, May 8, 2014
               X Jane                                       9am - 10am
              1915                                          1920
                                            Figure 19

                                                                 <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                           1800         2020
                                                                             100
           2:40PM                                      12:40PM
                                            Invitees
 Add Event Invitees                        S M T         W       T   F S
         Show More...                      4    5 6      7       8   9 10
Some Invitees Can Attend
Friday, May 9, 2014                        1
2pm - 3pm              i                   2
                            2015
X Bob                                      3                                 2025
Friday, May 9, 2014                        4
4pm - 5pm              i                   5
                                                                                                  19/35
X Jane                                     6
Monday, May 12, 2014                       7
9am - 10am                                 8
 X John                i                   9
       Show More...                        Today   Calendars         Inbox
2005                                       2010
                            Figure 20

                                                                       <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
                  2:40PM                             2:40PM                      2:40PM
        Add Event Invitees                  Add Event Invitees          Add Event Invitees
1855
       Scheduling Con ict                  Scheduling Con ict          Responded
           Thursday, May 8, 2014           Thursday, May 8, 2014
                                                                       No Response
           1pm -2pm                        1pm -2pm
                                i                                  i     John
        X Bob                               X Bob
        X Jane                              X Jane                        Bob                        1840
       All Invitees Can Attend             All Invitees Can Attend     ? Sam
       Monday, May 11, 2014                   Monday, May 11, 2014       Jane
                              i
       5pm - 6pm                              5pm - 6pm           i    Add Invitees                              20/35
          Everyone Can Attend       1855      Everyone Can Attend      Scheduling Con ict
                Show More...                        Show More...       Thursday, May 8, 2014
       Some Invitees Can Attend            Some Invitees Can Attend    1pm -2pm
                                                                                               i
       Friday, May 9, 2014                 Friday, May 9, 2014          X Bob
       2105                                2110                          2115
                                               Figure 21

                               21/35
<removed-date>
                                                                  2200
<removed-apn>
                                    Start
                                                                  2205
              Identify that at least one invitee is busy during
                      proposed time for appointment
                                                                  2210
              Identify rst set of upcoming times during which
                  all invitees and organizer are available
                                                                  2215
                Order rst set of times based on start time
                                                                  2220
               Identify subset of rst set of times to display
                                                                  2225
              Identify set of upcoming times during which (1)
              organizer is available and (2) different subsets
                           of invitees are available
                                                                  2230
                Order second set of times with number of
               unavailable invitees as rst criteria and start
                         time as second criteria
                                                                  2235
              Identify subset of second set of times to display
                                    End
                             Fig. 22

                                                             22/35
<removed-date>
                                                          2300
                                2:40PM                                          2:40PM              2340
                      Day Event Details                               Back     Invitees
                     Lunch Meeting                                   Responded
                     Thursday, May 8, 2014                              Jane
<removed-apn>
                     from 12 PM to 1 PM
                                                                      ? Kurt
                     Calendar               Work                        "What's this?"
                     Accepted                                        X Tim
                     Jane                                              "Can't make it."
                     Maybe               2325                        No Response
                     Kurt                                               Jack
              2330   Declined
                     Tim
                     No Response                                                                     2335
                     2305                                             2310
                                                                                                     2350
                               2:40PM                                          2:40PM
                     Cancel Lunch Meeting Send                       Cancel Lunch Meeting Send
                                                                     To: Jane, Tim, Jack, Kurt
                     Lunch Meeting                                   CC/BCC, From: Thomas
                     Scheduled: Thursday, May                        Subject: Lunch Meeting
                     8, 2014
                     from 12 PM to 1 PM
                     Location: Cafe Locale                           Lunch Meeting
                     Invitees: Jane, Tim, Jack,                      Scheduled: Thursday, May
                     Kurt                                            8, 2014
                     Q W E R T Y U I O P                             Q W E R T Y U I O P
                      A S D F G H J K L                               A S D F G H J K L
                            Z X C V B N M x                                Z X C V B N M x
                     123         space          return               123         space     return
                     2320                                              2315
                                                         Figure 23

                                                                                            <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
         2415                                                                            2405                         2400
                                                                           2410
   Sun                Mon                    Tue           Wed                   Thu                 Fri     Sat
    27                 28                     29            30                  May 1                  2
                                                                    Meeting 3     1 PM
     4                    5                    6                7                   8                  9
                               Meeting 1    1 PM                    Meeting 3            Weekly     9 AM         10
                                                                                1 PM
                               Meeting 2    5 PM                                         Discussion
 Sun 11            Mon 12                  Tue 13        Wed 14              Thu 15               Fri 16   Sat
          Conference 1 PM Dinner            7 PM                     Phone Call 10 AM                            17
          Call                                                                                                                 23/35
                                                                                                                        2420
    18                    19                   20            21                    22                23
                               Dinner      6 PM                     Phone Call 1 11 AM                           24
                                                                    Phone Call 2 1 PM
    25                    26                  27             28                     29               30
           Memorial Day
                                                                                                                 31
June 1                     2                    3               4                    5                 6
                                                                                                                 7
                                                    Figure 24

                                                   24/35
<removed-date>                           2415
                                                                                    2500
                                                                  2405
<removed-apn>
                               S M T W T F S              Thursday, May 15, 2014
                               27 28 29 30 1 2 3 all-day
                               4 5 6 7 8 9 10           9 AM
              2525                                  9:25AM
                               11 12 13 14 15 16 17
                               18 19 20 21 22 23 24 10 AM 10 AM
                               25 26 27 28 29 30 31          Phone Call
                                                             Of ce
                      Thursday      May 15, 2014       11 AM                         2535
                       Phone Call     10 AM to 11 AM
                       Of ce                           12 PM
              2530
                       Friday         May 16, 2014
                                                        1 PM
                       Monday         May 19, 2014      2 PM
                      2505
                                     2540
                                  S M T W T F S            Thursday, May 15, 2014
                                 27 28 Event
                          Create Quick 29 30 1 2 3 all-day
                                  4 5on 6Friday
                       Movie at 7PM         7 8 9 10     9 AM
                                                      9:25AM
                      Meeting 3 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
                      Today 1 PM18   2 PM
                                  to19 20 21 22 23 24 10 AM 10 AM
                      Of ce      25 26 27 28 29 30 31         Phone Call
               2545   Weekly Discussion                       Of ce
                      Thursday
                      Thursday         May 15, 2014 11 AM
                      Friday 9 AM to 10 AM
                          ce Call
                       Phone
                      Of
                       Phone  Call     10 AM to 11 AM
               2550    Of ce                            12 PM
                        Friday        May 16, 2014
                                                       1 PM
                       Monday         May 19, 2014
                                                       2 PM
                      2510
                                            Figure 25

                                                                                                 <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                2415                                                                      2540
                                                            2500
         S M T W T F S             Thursday, May 22, 2014                             S M T W T F S             Thursday, May 22, 2014
        27 28 29 30 1 2 3 all-day                                            Create Quick   29 30 1 2 3 all-day
                                                                                     27 28Event
         4 5 6 7 8 9 10 10 AM                                              Movie at 7PM     6 7 8 9 10 10 AM
                                                                                         5 Friday
                                                                                      4 on
                              10:25AM                              2615                                   10:25AM
         11 12 13 14 15 16 17                                             Meeting 3 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
        18 19 20 21 22 23 24 11 AM 11 AM                                  Today 2 PM18   3 PM
                                                                                      to 19 20 21 22 23 24 11 AM 11 AM
        25 26 27 28 29 30 31          Phone Call 1                        Of ce      25 26 27 28 29 30 31          Phone Call 1
                                                                          Dinner                                   Of ce                 25/35
Thursday      May 22, 2014 12 AM Of ce                                    Thursday          May 22, 2014 12 PM
                                                                          Tuesday 2 PM to 3 PM
 Phone Call 1    11 AM to 12 PM                                            Phone Call
                                                                          Restaurant LA1 11 AM to 12 PM
 Of ce                            1 PM                             2620    Of ce                              1 PM
Phone Call 2                             1 PM                              Phone Call 2                            1 PM
Of ce              1 PM to 2 PM          Phone Call 2                                         1 PM to 2 PM         Phone Call 2
                                         Of ce                             Of ce                                   Of ce
Monday          May 26, 2014 2 PM                                                                             2 PM
                                                                           Monday         May 26, 2014
Memorial Day            all-day   3 PM                                    Memorial Day             all-day   3 PM
2605                                                                      2610
                                                        Figure 26

                                                                                                   <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
            S M T W T F S             Thursday, May 15, 2014                          S M T W T F S                 Friday, May 16, 2014
    Create Quick 29 30 1 2 3 all-day
           27 28 Event                                                       Meeting                          all-day                      2730
                                                                                   27428 29 30 1 2 3
 Movie at 7PM                       9 AM                                     Of ce
                      7 8 9 10
            4 5on 6Friday                                                                                10    9 AM 9 AM
                                 9:25AM                                      May 16, 2014
                                                                                       4 5 96AM7 to8109AM
                        15 16 17                                                          12 13 14    16 17            Weekly Discussion
Meeting 3 11 12 13 142545                                                    Add Alert,11Repeat,    Travel
                                                                                                 or15      Time
Today 1 PM18   2 PM
            to19                                                                                                       Of ce
                 20 21 22 23 24 10 AM 10 AM                                  John Doe18 19 20 21 22 23 24 10 AM
Of ce      25 26 27 28 29 30 31          Phone Call                          Jim Smith25 26 27 28 29 30 31 2735
Weekly Discussion                                                            Jane  Park
Thursday         May 15, 2014 11 AM Of ce                                   Friday          May 16, 2014 11 AM
Friday 9 AM to 10 AM                                               2535
                                                                             We'll be discussing ongoing projects
Of
 Phone
    ce Call      10 AM 2550
                         to 11 AM                                          Meeting  4       9 AM to 10 AM
                                                                             Add Attachment...
 Of ce                             12 PM                                   Of ce                              12 PM
  Friday        May 16, 2014                                               Monday          May 19, 2014
                                    1 PM                                                                      1 PM
 Monday         May 19, 2014                                               Tuesday         May 20, 2014
                                    2 PM                                                                      2 PM
2705                                                                      2710
                                                                                                                                                  26/35
   MeetingS 4M T W T F S                  Friday, May 16, 2014
                                                                             MeetingS 4M T W T F S                Friday, May 16, 2014
   Of ce 27 28 29 30 1 2 3 all-day                                           Of ce      27 28 29 30 1 2 3 all-day
      all-day:4 5 6 7 8 9 10          9 AM 9 AM                                 all-day:4 5 6 7 8 9 10         9 AM 9 AM
         from: 05/16/2014 9:00 AM            Weekly Discussion
                                                                                   from: 05/16/2014 9:00 AM          Weekly Discussion
              11 12 13 14 15 16 17                                                      11 12 13 14 15 16 17
            to: 05/16/2014 10:00 AM          Of ce               2740                 to: 05/16/2014 10:00 AM        Of ce
              18 19
       repeat: None 20 21 22  23 24   10 AM                                      repeat:18None
                                                                                           19 20 21 22 23 24 10 AM
  travel time:   26 27 28 29 30
              25None           9:30
                                 31 AM: 30 minutes                          travel time:   26 27 28 29 30 31
                                                                                        25None
         alert: None         10:00 AM: 1 hour                                      alert: None
  Friday
     show as: Busy  May 16,10:30         AMhours
                               2014AM:111.5                                 Friday
                                                                               show as: Busy May 16, 2014 11 AM
      private:               11:00 AM: 2 hours                                  private:                    2735
 Meeting 4          9 AM to 10
                             11:30
                                AM AM: 2.5 hours                           Meeting 4         9 AM to 10 AM
     ce Doe
 OfJohn                                                                        ce Doe
                                                                           OfJohn                             12 PM
                             12:00 PM:    hours
                                     12 3PM
   Jim Smith                                                                 Jim Smith
 Monday             May   19,  2014                                         Monday
                                                                             Jane Park
                                                                                              May 19, 2014
   Jane Park
                                      1 PM                                                                     1 PM
   We'll be discussing ongoing projects                                      We'll be discussing ongoing projects
 Tuesday            May
    Add Attachment...     20,  2014                                        Tuesday            May 20, 2014
                                                                              Add Attachment...
                                      2 PM                                                                     2 PM
2720                                                                      2715
                                                Figure 27A

                                                                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
   MeetingS 4M T W T F S                 Friday, May 16, 2014
   Of ce       27 28 29 30 1 2 3 all-day
       all-day:4 5 6 7 8 9 10        9 AM 9 AM                  2730
          from: 05/16/2014 9:00 AM          Weekly Discussion
               11 12 13 14 15 16 17
             to: 05/16/2014 11:00 AM        Of ce
        repeat:18None
                  19 20 21 22 23 24 10 AM
   travel time:25None
                  26 27 28 29 30 31
          alert: None
   Friday
      show as: Busy May 16, 2014 11 AM
       private:
 Meeting 4          9 AM to 10 AM
      ce Doe
  OfJohn                            12 PM
    Jim Smith
  Monday
    Jane Park
                     May  19,  2014
                                     1 PM                                                   27/35
    We'll be discussing ongoing projects
 Tuesday             May
     Add Attachment...    20,  2014
                                     2 PM
2725
                       Figure 27B

                                         28/35
<removed-date>                                                                        2800
                                      Start
<removed-apn>
                                                                      2805
               Receive request to create new event based on
                            current calendar
                                                                      2810
                 Analyze past calendar history to identify
              additional event options for upcoming time slots
                                                                      2815
                      Select one of identi ed event options
                                                        2820                                    2825
                            Busy during time slot for            No          Present event option at
                             selected event option?                                time slot
                                         Yes                          2830
                Modify time slot for selected event option to
                             available time slot
                                                                      2835
                    Present event option at modi ed time slot
                                                               2840
              Yes              Additional identi ed
                                 event options?
                                         No
                                      End
                                     Fig. 28

                                                                                                <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
         2915                                                                                2905                            2900
                                                                              2910
   Sun                Mon                 Tue                 Wed                 Thu                    Fri        Sat
    27                 28                  29                  30                May 1                     2
                                                                                             Meeting 3 1 PM
     4                    5                   6                  7                       8                9
                               Meeting 1 1 PM                                                Meeting 4 9 AM             10
                               Discuss Jim 5 PM                                              Meeting 3 1 PM
 Sun 11            Mon12                Tue 13              Wed 14              Thu 15                   Fri 16   Sat
          Conference 1 PM                                                                    Meeting 3    1 PM          17
          Call
                                                                                                                                      29/35
                                                                                                                               2920
    18                  19                  20                  21                     22                   23
          Conference 1 PM                                            Call 1          11 AM Meeting 3      1 PM          24
                           Dinner        6 PM
          Call                                                       Call 2           1 PM
    25                    26                27                  28                      29                  30
           Memorial Day
                                                   Review    1 PM    Doctor          9 AM                               31
                                                   Dinner    7 PM    Lunch           1 PM
June 1                     2                 3                  4                       5                    6
                                                                                                                        7
                                                  Figure 29

                                                                                                       <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                           2915                       2905                                       3040
                                                                          3000
                       S M T W T F S            Wednesday, May 28, 2014                      S M T W T F S             Wednesday, May 28, 2014
                                            all-day                                Create Quick Event              all-day
                       27 28 29 30 1 2 3 12:40PM                                            27 28 29 30  1  2  3 12:40PM
                                             1 PM                                 Movie at 7PM
                                                                                             4 on  6 7 8 9 10
                                                                                                5 Friday            1 PM
                        4 5 6 7 8 9 10                                                                                     1 PM
                                                    1 PM
3025                   11 12 13 14 15 16 17         Review                                  11 12 13 14 15 16 17           Review
                       18 19 20 21 22 23 24  2 PM Conference Room                           18 19 20 21 22 23 24    2 PM Conference Room
                       25 26 27 28 29 30 31                                                 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
        Wednesday           May 28, 2014 3 PM                                    Wednesday       May 28, 2014 3 PM
                                                                          3035
         Review                                                                   Review
         Conference Room 1 PM to 3 PM                                             Conference Room 1 PM to 3 PM
                                             4 PM                                 Dinner                              4 PM
         Dinner               7 PM to 8 PM                                                             7 PM to 8 PM
3030     Restaurant                                                               Restaurant
        Thursday           May 29, 2014      5 PM                                Thursday        May 29, 2014         5 PM
         Doctor                                                                   Doctor          9 AM to 10 AM
         Dr.'s Of ce         9 AM to 10 AM                                        Dr.'s Of ce
                                             6 PM                                                                     6 PM
        3005                                                                     3010
                                                                                                3040                                             30/35
                   S M T W T F S             Wednesday, May 28, 2014                        S M T W T F S            Wednesday, May 28, 2014
           Create Quick  Event           all-day                                    Create Quick Event           all-day
                   27 28 29 30 1 2 3 12:40PM                                                27 28 29 30 1 2 3 12:40PM
         Call       4 5 6 7 8 9 10        1 PM                                    Call       4 5 6 7 8 9 10       1 PM
                                                 1 PM                                                                    1 PM
        Conference11  12 13 14 15 16 17
                     Call                        Review                                     11 12 13 14 15 16 17         Review
        Monday 1 PM       20 21
                      191:30
                   18 to      PM22 23 24  2 PM Conference Room                              18 19 20 21 22 23 24  2 PM Conference Room
 3045              25 26 27 28 29 30 31                                                     25 26 27 28 29 30 31
        Call 1
        Wednesday        May   28, 2014 3 PM                                     Wednesday       May 28, 2014 3 PM
        Thursday 11 AM to  12 AM
 3050    Review                                                                   Review
         Conference
        Call 2      Room 1 PM to 3 PM                                             Conference Room 1 PM to 3 PM
                                             4 PM                                 Dinner                              4 PM
         Dinner
        Thursday 2 PM to 2:30
                          7 PMPMto 8 PM                                                                7 PM to 8 PM
         Restaurant                                                               Restaurant
        Thursday           May 29, 2014      5 PM                                Thursday        May 29, 2014         5 PM
 3055
         Doctor                                                                   Doctor          9 AM to 10 AM
         Dr.'s Of ce         9 AM to 10 AM                                       Dr.'s Of ce
                                             6 PM                                                                     6 PM
        3020                                                                     3015
                                                              Figure 30

                                                                                                     <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                                                                         3000
                      S M T W T F S            Wednesday, May 28, 2014                      S M T W T F S           Wednesday, May 28, 2014
                                           all-day                                Create Quick Event            all-day
                      27 28 29 30 1 2 3 12:40PM                                            27 28 29 30 1 2 3 12:40PM
                                            1 PM                                 Movie at 7PM     6 7 8 9 10
                                                                                               5 Friday
                                                                                            4 on                 1 PM
                       4 5 6 7 8 9 10                                                                                   1 PM
                                                   1 PM
                      11 12 13 14 15 16 17         Review                                  11 12 13 14 15 16 17         Review
                      18 19 20 21 22 23 24  2 PM Conference Room                           18 19 20 21 22 23 24  2 PM Conference Room
                      25 26 27 28 29 30 31                                                 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
       Wednesday           May 28, 2014 3 PM                                    Wednesday       May 28, 2014 3 PM
        Review                                                                  Review
        Conference Room 1 PM to 3 PM                                             Conference Room 1 PM to 3 PM
                                            4 PM                                Dinner                              4 PM
        Dinner               7 PM to 8 PM                                                            7 PM to 8 PM
        Restaurant                                                               Restaurant
       Thursday           May 29, 2014      5 PM                                Thursday        May 29, 2014        5 PM
        Doctor                                                                  Doctor           9 AM to 10 AM
        Dr.'s Of ce         9 AM to 10 AM                                       Dr.'s Of ce
                                            6 PM                                                                    6 PM
       3105                                                                     3110
                                                                                              3040                                            31/35
                   S M T W T F S            Wednesday, May 28, 2014                        S M T W T F S            Wednesday, May 28, 2014
           Create Quick  Event          all-day                                    Create Quick Event           all-day
                   27 28 29 30 1 2 3 12:40PM                                               27 28 29 30 1 2 3 12:40PM
        Jim         4 5 6 7 8 9 10       1 PM                                    Jim        4 5 6 7 8 9 10       1 PM
                                                1 PM                                                                    1 PM
       Meeting 3 11 12 13 14 15 16 17           Review                                     11 12 13 14 15 16 17         Review
       Friday 1 PM18   1:30
                    to 19 20PM
                            21 22 23 24  2 PM Conference Room                              18 19 20 21 22 23 24  2 PM Conference Room
                   25 26 27 28 29 30 31                                                    25 26 27 28 29 30 31
3125   Discuss Jim
       Wednesday         May 28, 2014 3 PM                                      Wednesday       May 28, 2014 3 PM
       Tuesday 5 PM to 5:15 PM
        Review                                                                  Review
        Conference Room 1 PM to 3 PM                                            Conference Room 1 PM to 3 PM
3130                                        4 PM                                Dinner                              4 PM
        Dinner               7 PM to 8 PM                                                            7 PM to 8 PM
        Restaurant                                                              Restaurant
       Thursday           May 29, 2014      5 PM                                Thursday        May 29, 2014        5 PM
        Doctor                                                                  Doctor           9 AM to 10 AM
        Dr.'s Of ce         9 AM to 10 AM                                       Dr.'s Of ce
                                            6 PM                                                                    6 PM
       3120                                                                     3115
                                                                Figure 31

                                                                                                  <removed-apn>                    <removed-date>
                                                                       3000
                                                                                                                         3215
                   S M T W T F S             Wednesday, May 28, 2014             MeetingS 3M T W T F S               Friday, May 30, 2014
           Create Quick  Event           all-day                                                                  all-day
                   27 28 29 30 1 2 3 12:40PM                                    Of ce 27 28 29 30 1 2 3 12:40PM
        Jim         4 5 6 7 8 9 10        1 PM                                  May 30, 2014
                                                                                           4 5 16PM 7 to81:30
                                                                                                           9 10PM 1 PM
                                                 1 PM                                               or  Travel Time       1 PM Meeting 3
       Meeting 3 11 12 13 14 15 16 17            Review                                      12 13 14 15 16 17
                                                                                Add Alert,11Repeat,
       Friday 1 PM18   1:30
                    to 19    21 22 23 24
                          20PM            2 PM Conference Room                  Jim Smith
                                                                                        18 19 20 21 22 23 24       2 PM
                   25 26 27 28 29 30 31                                                 25   26
                                                                                Review of Week  27 28  29 30 31
3125   Discuss Jim
       Wednesday               28, 2014 3 PM                                    Add Attachment...
                                                                              Wednesday        May 28, 2014   3220 3 PM
       Tuesday 5 PM to May5:15 PM                                                                                                             32/35
        Review                                                                 Review
        Conference Room 1 PM to 3 PM                                           Conference Room 1 PM to 3 PM
        Dinner                            4 PM                                 Dinner                            4 PM
        Restaurant        7 PM to 8 PM                                                           7 PM to 8 PM
                                                                               Restaurant
       Thursday        May 29, 2014       5 PM                                Thursday        May 29, 2014       5 PM
        Doctor           9 AM to 10 AM                                         Doctor           9 AM to 10 AM
        Dr.'s Of ce                       6 PM                                 Dr.'s Of ce                       6 PM
       3205                                                                   3210
                                                             Figure 32

                                       33/35
<removed-date>
                                       Start
                                                                                       3300
                                                                       3305
                     Receive text input describing new event
                                                                       3310
<removed-apn>
                     Analyze past calendar history to identify
                               matching events
                                                                       3315
                    Generate set of new proposed events with
                     event characteristics based on identi ed
                                matched events
                                                                       3320
                        Order set of new proposed events
                                                                       3325
                           Select proposed new event
                                                         3330                                    3335
                             Busy during time slot for            No          Present event option at
                              selected event option?                                time slot
                                          Yes                          3340
                Modify time slot for selected event option to
                             available time slot
                                                                       3345
                    Present event option at modi ed time slot
                                                                3350
              Yes              Additional identi ed
                                 event options?
                                          No
                                       End
                                   Fig. 33

                                                                34/35
<removed-date>
                                                                                             3400
                                                                  3471
                      Operating System Instructions)
                                                                  3472
                     Calendar Application Instructions
<removed-apn>
                                                                  3474
                       Communication Instructions
                                                                  3476
                             GUI Instructions
                                                                  3478
                      Image Processing Instructions                                                              3445
                                                                  3480
                       Input Processing Instructions                                     Orientation Sensor
                                                                  3482
                      Audio Processing Instructions
                                                                  3484                                           3450
                           Camera Instructions
                                                                                         Acceleration Sensor
                                 Memory
                                                                                             3420                     3440
              3470
                                                                                             Camera
              3410                                                                          Subsystem
                            Memory Interface
                                                                                              Wired
                                                                                          Communication
                                                                   Peripherals             Subsystem(s)        3423
                                                                    Interface
                                                                                             Wireless
                                                                                          Communication
              3405                                                                         Subsystem(s)
                            Processing Unit(s)                                                                 3425
                                                         3415
                                                                                         Audio Subsystem
                                   3455                                                                        3430
                                                            I/O Subsystem           3460
                                     Touch-Screen Controller             Other Input Controller(s)
                                                                                                               3435
                                             Touch Screen
                              3465
                                                           Figure 34

                                                                 <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
       3535
                                                              3545
                       3515              3520
                       Graphics
                                         System               Output
3500
       Storage        Processor
                      Processing
                                         Memory               Devices
                      Unit (GPU)
                                                                             3505
                                                                                                  35/35
                          Processing             Input
              ROM         Processor                                     Network
                            Unit(s)             Devices
                                                Controls
               3530            3510                                        3525
                                                       3540
                                      Figure 35

