ABSTRACT
A shaft handling arrangement for extracting a main lateral shaft from an industrial reel
assembly including a main body having at least two laterally spaced apart jaw
arrangements mountable upon a drivable vehicle and wherein each laterally spaced
apart jaw arrangements includes a clamp position to clamp upon the main lateral
shaft of the reel assembly such that movement of the drivable vehicle away from the
industrial reel assembly when said laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements are
clamped upon said main lateral shaft provides laterally supported extraction of said
main lateral shaft from said industrial reel assembly.

                          2/5
10                  24
                                         22
                                          13
             25a
  26a                           25c          20
          25b                              26c
                               25d       1
      26b        *0
            28          30        26d 16
                       Fig. 2a
10
                       Fig. 2b

A SHAFT HANDLING ARRANGEMENT AND A METHOD OF EXTRACTING A MAIN
               LATERAL SHAFT OF AN INDUSTRIAL REEL ASSEMBLY
        FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[001] This invention relates to the removal and/or reinsertion of the main lateral shaft
responsible for rotatably supporting an article, such as the matting for a large scale
conveyor which is retracted out from an industrial reel assembly.
[002] More importantly, this invention relates to a new and unique shaft handling
arrangement for these kinds of industrial reel assemblies wherein the main central
lateral shaft can be extracted out from the industrial reel assembly and reinserted
there back into the industrial reel assembly as required utilising improved, safe and
convenient handling procedures thereby significantly reducing hazardous risks to
personnel and property during the operative task of either extracting or inserting the
main lateral shaft from or into the industrial reel assembly.
        BACKGROUND ART DISCUSSION
[003] For the most part this invention will be described and defined by way of a
claim set for a shaft handling arrangement used in the extraction and inserting of a
main lateral support shaft which forms part of an industrial reel assembly.
[004] Nonetheless, the shaft handling arrangement to be introduced shortly
hereafter could also be used in the handling of other akin shaft arrangements
whereby an industrial laterally orientated shaft requires operational handling so it can
assembled or disassembled from a larger arrangement or be moved from one place
to another, including extraction and/or reinsertion into or from various industrial
assemblies.
[005] On mining sites and also other related excavation and large industrial sites,
there is often the requirement to make available certain types of materials such as
heavy metal cabling, conveyor matting, sheets of metal, high volume rubber and
                                             1

plastics, via industrial sized reel assemblies where the product is rotatably withdrawn
from a significantly sized industrial reel assembly.
[006] Once the product has been withdrawn from the industrial reel assembly, given
the size and the tonnage of such an assembly, there is often the requisite necessity
to disassemble the industrial reel assembly so that the components making up the
industrial reel assembly can be returned to the suppliers of the material to be re-fitted
again with new product for subsequent re-use.
[007] One of the main components making up an industrial reel assembly is the
main lateral shaft which is separated and supported by the main wheels on opposing
sides of the industrial reel assembly.
[008] Once the product supported on the industrial reel assembly has been
withdrawn from the industrial reel assembly, often on site, the disassembling of the
industrial reel assembly is required so that the industrial reel assembly can be
returned, as introduced above, to be re-fitted with the applicable article to be
supported upon the industrial reel assembly.
[009] In order to collapse the industrial reel assembly down for appropriate size for
transporting, one of the major steps is to be able to extract out from the industrial reel
assembly the main lateral support shaft thereby allowing the main support wheels to
then be brought together for easy storage and transportation away of the collapsed
industrial reel assembly.
[010] Conversely there will also then be the requirement when re-assembling the
industrial reel assembly to be able to conveniently reinsert the main lateral shaft back
into the industrial reel assembly to be constructed so as to reconfigure the industrial
reel assembly again for appropriate ongoing operational use.
[011] At present the arrangements and handling methods for extracting and
reinserting the main lateral shaft into the industrial reel assembly are very haphazard,
poorly defined, risk adverse, costly and inadequate.
                                              2

[012] One of the main difficulties in extracting the main lateral shaft from the
industrial reel assembly is that given that it is supported at opposing distal ends by
the main wheel support of the reel, it often requires pulling the main lateral shaft out
at one end.
[013] For example a crane may be utilised which engages a sectional distal end of
the main lateral shaft at one end to try and almost yank the shaft at first laterally from
the industrial reel assembly. Ultimately as the crane with the chain linkage to the
sectional end of the main lateral shaft pulls the shaft out from the wheel supports, the
main lateral shaft once it is free from the confines of the supporting wheels of the reel
assembly can flip into a vertical orientation, and begin swinging, not unlike a
pendulum.
[014] This potential unrestrained pendulum swinging action of the main lateral shaft
of the industrial reel assembly brings with it, as can be imagined, significant hazards,
both to personnel surrounding the industrial reel assembly during this extraction
process of the main lateral shaft but also to property and materials within the vicinity
of that fairly uncontrolled swinging main lateral shaft, including the crane, during that
initial release from its confines within the wheel structure of the industrial reel
assembly.
[015] From an occupational health and safety perspective, such handling methods
for extracting, then as required the reinsertion therein, of this main lateral shaft into
the industrial reel assembly are completely unacceptable.
[016] There is the requirement to be able to provide a more controlled, safe and risk
adverse method of operation to personnel and property associated and surrounding
the, either disassembling or assembling of the industrial reel assembly.
[017] Accordingly it is an object of this invention to provide a shaft handling
arrangement that will provide a method for extracting or inserting the main lateral
shaft of the industrial reel assembly in a controlled and safe environment, so that this
main lateral shaft can be conveniently, consistently and safely operatively removed or
reassembled into the industrial reel assembly.
                                              3

[018] Further objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from a
complete reading of the following specification.
       SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[019] In one form of the invention there is provided a shaft handling arrangement for
extracting a main lateral shaft from an industrial reel assembly, said shaft handling
arrangement including;
[020] a main body;
[021] said main body including an attachment section, wherein the attachment
section enables the main body to be mountable upon a drivable vehicle, wherein the
drivable vehicle is configured to place said main body within a proximity of an
industrial reel assembly such that the main body is positionable to become in
operative engagement with a main lateral shaft of said industrial reel assembly;
[022] said main body configured to support at least two laterally spaced apart jaw
arrangements, wherein each laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements includes an
open position, wherein said open position is characterised in allowing the laterally
spaced apart jaw arrangement to become passable along a sectional end of said
main lateral shaft of the industrial reel assembly so that the laterally spaced apart jaw
arrangements are positionable about a clamping position along the sectional end of
the main lateral shaft;
[023] and wherein each laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements includes a clamp
position such that when the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements reach the
clamping position, said laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements are adapted to clamp
upon said main lateral shaft such that movement of said drivable vehicle away from
said industrial reel assembly when said laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements are
clamped upon said main lateral shaft provides laterally supported extraction of said
main lateral shaft from said industrial reel assembly.
                                             4

[024] In preference the main body includes a series of plates wherein the laterally
spaced apart jaw arrangements are sandwiched and/or supported there in between
said plates.
[025] In preference each laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement is pivotally
mounted upon a respective plate of said main body.
[026] In preference each pivot support of the respective laterally spaced apart jaw
arrangement is in operative communication with a drive mechanism wherein
activation of the drive mechanism provides a force to induce the laterally spaced
apart jaw arrangement to the open position or the clamp position.
[027] In preference the drive mechanism includes hydraulics.
[028] In preference each laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement includes two
independent sectional pieces.
[029] In preference each sectional piece is independently pivotally supported by a
pivot arrangement.
[030] In preference the pivot arrangement includes two pivot points wherein one
pivot point is connected to the drive mechanism.
[031] In preference each of the two sectional pieces making up the laterally spaced
apart jaw arrangement is pivotally connected to the same drive mechanism.
[032] In preference the drive mechanism includes a piston/rod cylinder assembly.
[033] In preference the extension of the rod from the cylinder brings the sectional
pieces of the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement together in the clamping
position.
[034] Alternatively in a further form of the invention a retraction of the piston/rod
back into the cylinder draws the sectional pieces of the jaw arrangement apart to
provide for the opening position.
                                            5

[035] In still a further alternative embodiment, extension of the rod/piston from the
cylinder releases the jaw arrangement from the clamp position and a retraction of the
rod/piston into the cylinder places the sectional pieces of the jaw arrangement into
the clamp position.
[036] In preference the main body includes a back plate.
[037] In preference the back plate includes a hook arrangement which allows the
main body to be hooked onto the drivable vehicle.
[038] In preference the hook arrangement includes two hook brackets supported on
opposing lateral sides of said back plate.
[039] In preference a front plate, an intermediate plate and the back plate of the
main body include a series of aligned apertures whereby a beam support is passable
there within said apertures so as to provide structural integrity to the assembled shaft
handling arrangement of this invention.
[040] Advantageously the shaft handling arrangement provided for by this invention
removes the risks and hazards associated with extracting out the main lateral shaft of
the industrial reel assembly.
[041] No longer will there be the requirement of introducing procedural methods that
are haphazard and dangerous, inconsistent and undefinable in trying to, through
almost trial and error, to randomly extract the main lateral shaft from the industrial
reel assembly while on site or in locations where the industrial reel assembly needs
to be reassembled.
[042] By applying this unique shaft handling arrangement of this invention to the
drivable vehicle which will be able to position the shaft handling arrangement in
correct orientation with the main lateral shaft that needs to be extracted from the
industrial reel assembly so that jaws mounted and contained within the main body
can appropriately engage and clamp around the shaft, dangerous handling operation
become a thing of the past.
                                             6

[043] Uniquely and importantly for this invention, by introducing at least two laterally
spaced apart jaw arrangements to engage the sectional end of the main lateral shaft
avoids the establishment of any type of pendulum engagement during the extraction
process of the main lateral shaft thereby withdrawing hazards associated with the
potential risk of the shaft swinging free once it has lost support from one or either of
the wheels that form part of the industrial reel assembly.
[044] In order now to describe the invention in greater detail a preferred embodiment
will be presented with the assistance of the following illustrations and accompanying
text.
        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[045] Figures 1a, 1b and 1c show a perspective, side and front view of the shaft
handling arrangement of a preferred embodiment of this invention engaging the main
lateral shaft of an industrial reel assembly.
[046] Figures 2a and 2b, which are respectively a perspective view and a front view
of the shaft handling arrangement in a preferred embodiment of this invention.
[047] Figure 3 shows a side view of the shaft handling arrangement of a preferred
embodiment of this invention.
[048] Figures 4a and 4b show schematic representations of the operation of one of
the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements of the shaft handling arrangement;
wherein Figure 4a shows the clamping position of the jaw arrangement and Figure 4b
shows the open configuration of the jaw arrangement.
[049] Figure 5 is a top view of the shaft handling arrangement in a preferred
embodiment of the invention.
        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[050] Figures 1a, 1b and 1c assist in understanding the application of the shaft
handling arrangement (10) as it engages an industrial reel assembly which for
                                             7

Figures 1a, 1b and 1c shows certain sections of the industrial reel assembly, notably
the main lateral shaft (14) and one of what would be a pair of wheels (12) to which
the main lateral shaft would be supported thereon and to which an article such as a
conveyor belt mat, heavy industrial cables, sheets of metal and the like would be
reeled there off the industrial reel assembly.
[051] Although not shown in the illustrations, the shaft handling arrangement (10)
would be mounted upon a drivable vehicle so that this vehicle can position the shaft
handling arrangement (10) within the appropriate proximity of the industrial reel
assembly so as to engage a sectional end of the main lateral shaft (14).
[052] The actual size of the shaft handling arrangement (10) will be dependent upon
the size of the main lateral shaft (14) that needs to be extracted from the industrial
assembly.
[053] As is to be expected, larger main lateral shafts that rest upon the wheels of the
industrial reel assembly would correlate to making available dimensionally bigger
shaft handling arrangements.
[054] However once again the purpose of providing illustrations 1a, 1b and 1c is to
help place the context of the shaft handling arrangement into one of its applications,
wherein for it to become operatively engageable with the main lateral shaft (14) that
needs to be extracted from the industrial reel assembly there will be the requirement
to mount the shaft handling arrangement to a drivable vehicle so it can be
appropriately positioned for engagement with the main lateral shaft (14).
[055] As will be introduced shortly hereafter, the way in which the shaft handling
arrangement (10) configures itself about the main lateral shaft (14) and then
ultimately engages the main lateral shaft (14) for it to be safely extracted from the
industrial reel assembly will be introduced and referenced by Figures 2a through to
Figure 5.
[056] Referring firstly to Figures 2a, 2b and Figure 3, in the preferred embodiment
represented for these illustrations of the shaft handling arrangement (10) it is made
                                             8

up of a main body which is generally referenced as (9) which includes a front plate
(16), an intermediate plate (18) and a back plate (20).
[057] The main body (9) structurally integrates its construction through columns
(26a), (26b), (26c) and (26d) which are insertable and mountable within
corresponding apertures (25a), (25b), (25c) and (25d) symmetrically aligned and
introduced into each of the front plate (16), intermediate plate (18) and back plate
(20).
[058] The opposing bracket extensions (22) and (24) mounted to the back plate (20)
provide the two hooked members (13) and (15) which allows the shaft handling
arrangement (10) to be hooked onto a drivable vehicle (not shown).
[059] Sandwiched in between the front plate (16), intermediate plate (18) and back
plate (20), are two laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements (28) and (30) within
spaces (27) and (29) provided for by the respective front plate (16), intermediate
plate (18) and back plate (20).
[060] Figures 4a and 4b to be discussed in greater detail shortly hereafter, will
introduce the actual operation of how the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements
(28) and (30) move towards the open or clamped positions.
[061] In the preferred embodiment shown in Figures 2a, 2b and 3, the laterally
spaced apart jaw arrangement (28) is mounted to the internal side (41) of the front
plate (16) and the laterally space apart jaw arrangement (30) is mounted on the rear
face (19) of the intermediate plate (18).
[062] Figures 4a and 4b introduce the operation of the laterally spaced apart jaw
arrangement (28), however the mechanism and pivot mounting arrangement would
apply to the same way in which the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement (30)
mounted to the rear face (19) of the intermediate plate (18) is operated.
[063] As illustrated in Figures 4a and 4b, the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement
(28) includes two sectional pieces (42) and (43).
                                             9

[064] Sectional piece (42) is pivotally supported at point (47) and pivotally engaged
at (48).
[065] Sectional piece (43) is pivotally supported at point (49) and pivotally engaged
at (50).
[066] Figures 4a and 4b illustrate that each of the sectional pieces (42) and (43) of
the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement (28) have their respective pivot points
(49) and (50) joined to the same driving mechanism shown generally as (44), wherein
this driving mechanism will be responsible for moving the sectional pieces (42) and
(43) of the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement (28) between the closed position
shown as (37) in Figure 4a and the open position (39) as shown in Figure 4b.
[067] The drive mechanism (44) in the preferred embodiment shown in Figures 4a
and 4b includes the cylinder (45) and the piston/rod (46).
[068] Though not shown in the illustrations, this arrangement may be hydraulically
driven, albeit other drive mechanism would also be just as applicable in other less
preferred embodiments.
[069] As each of the sectional pieces (42) and (43) of the laterally spaced apart jaw
arrangement (28) are connected to the respective ends (48) and (50) of the drive
mechanism (44) means that as the rod (46) is extended out of the cylinder (45) as
shown in Figure 4a, there will be relative movement between the two sectional pieces
(42) and (43), which are both again pivotally supported and mounted at locations (47)
and (49) to the front plate (16) to move into the closed or clamped position.
[070] Further as the rod (46) is drawn into the cylinder (45) as shown in Figure 4b,
there will be relative movement between the two sectional pieces (42) and (43),
pivotally supported and mounted at locations (47) and (49) to the front plate (16) to
move into the open position.
[071] Figure 5 also assists in understanding the structural inter-relationship between
the drive mechanism (44) that includes the cylinder (45) and rod/piston (46), albeit
the rod connected with a piston type arrangement within the cylinder is not shown.
                                            10

[072] The top view of the shaft handling arrangement (10) shown in Figure 5 is
consistent with the representation shown in Figure 4b, whereby the rod (46) is totally
retracted into the cylinder (45).
[073] The cylinder arrangement (53) shown in Figure 5 relates to the operation of
the other laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement (30) shown in this preferred
embodiment.
[074] As the extended rod (46) shown in Figure 4a is retracted back into the cylinder
(45) as shown in Figure 4b, as the two respective ends of the sectional pieces (42)
and (43) of the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement (28) are connected at the
ends of the drive mechanism (44) at locations (48) and (50) through the pivot
supports (47) and (49) the two sectional pieces (42) and (43) have those ends (48)
and (50) drawn closer together which means that the two hooked ends (61) and (62)
of the respective sectional pieces (42) and (43) of the laterally spaced jaw
arrangement (28) are drawn open relative to each other to provide for the opening
position referenced as (39) in Figure 4b.
[075] Advantageously, through the unique drive mechanism (44) and the way in
which the ends of the drive mechanism (44) are pivotally joined at (48) and (50) to
the ends (63) and (64) of the respective sectional pieces (42) and (43) of the laterally
spaced apart jaw arrangement (28) and by virtue of the main pivot mounts (47) and
(49) upon the front plate (16) provides simple operational control of the laterally
spaced apart jaw arrangements (28) between the clamped (closed) position (37) or
the open position (39).
                                           11

CLAIMS
1. A shaft handling arrangement for extracting a main lateral shaft from an industrial
reel assembly, said shaft handling arrangement including;
a main body;
said main body including an attachment section, wherein the attachment section
enables the main body to be mountable upon a drivable vehicle, wherein the drivable
vehicle is configured to place said main body within a proximity of an industrial reel
assembly such that the main body is positionable to become in operative
engagement with a main lateral shaft of said industrial reel assembly;
said main body configured to support at least two laterally spaced apart jaw
arrangements, wherein each laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements includes an
open position, wherein said open position is characterised in allowing the laterally
spaced apart jaw arrangement to become passable along a sectional end of said
main lateral shaft of the industrial reel assembly so that the laterally spaced apart jaw
arrangements are positionable about a clamping position along the sectional end of
the main lateral shaft;
and wherein each laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements includes a clamp position
such that when the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements reach the clamping
position, said laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements are adapted to clamp upon
said main lateral shaft such that movement of said drivable vehicle away from said
industrial reel assembly when said laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements are
clamped upon said main lateral shaft provides laterally supported extraction of said
main lateral shaft from said industrial reel assembly.
2. The shaft handling arrangement of claim 1 wherein the main body includes a
series of plates wherein the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangements are sandwiched
and/or supported there in between said plates and/or wherein each laterally spaced
apart jaw arrangement is pivotally mounted upon a respective plate of said main
body.
                                             12

3. The shaft handling arrangement of claim 2 wherein each pivot support of the
respective laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement is in operative communication with
a drive mechanism wherein activation of the drive mechanism provides a force to
induce the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement to the open position or the clamp
position and/or wherein the drive mechanism includes hydraulics and/or wherein
each laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement includes two independent sectional
pieces and/or wherein each sectional piece is independently pivotally supported by a
pivot arrangement and/or wherein the pivot arrangement includes two pivot points
wherein one pivot point is connected to the drive mechanism.
4. The shaft handling arrangement of claim 3 wherein each of the two sectional
pieces making up the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement is pivotally connected
to the same drive mechanism and/or wherein the drive mechanism includes a
piston/rod and cylinder assembly and/or wherein the extension of the rod from the
cylinder brings the sectional pieces of the laterally spaced apart jaw arrangement
together in the clamping position and/or wherein the main body includes a back plate.
5. The shaft handling arrangement of claim 4 wherein the back plate includes a hook
arrangement which allows the main body to be hooked onto the drivable vehicle
and/or wherein the hook arrangement includes two hook brackets supported on
opposing lateral sides of said back plate and/or wherein a front plate, an intermediate
plate and the back plate of the main body include a series of aligned apertures
whereby a beam support is passable there within said apertures so as to provide
structural integrity to the assembled shaft handling arrangement of this invention.
                                            13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
