                                        ABSTRACT
  Coating compositions that include one or more epoxy resin compositions, one or more
  metal-containing compound and one or more curing agents are described. The
5 compositions can be applied to steel substrates, including steel substrates such as steel
  pipe to resist attack by sour gas. When applied to a substrate and cured, these coating
  compositions demonstrate reduced permeability to hydrogen sulfide.
                                             -1 -

                          SOUR GAS RESISTANT COATING
             CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/810,375 filed
 5 on April 10, 2013, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                       BACKGROUND
   Metal substrates, including steel substrates such as pipe, are prone to failure. The rate
   and extent of failure is determined by the nature of the substrate and the nature of the
   environment to which the substrate is exposed. During the transport of oil and gas, a
10 corrosive medium is formed by a combination of various ingredients, and especially
   hydrogen sulfide (H2 S). This medium is commonly called sour crude oil or sour gas. In
   pipeline steel, sour crude oil and sour gas can cause failure, including hydrogen-induced
   stress cracking (HIC), without application of external stress, especially at the high
   temperatures and pressures commonly used in oil and gas transport.
15 Exotic alloys of nickel, tantalum and the like may be used as protective coatings for steel
   substrates, but tend to be prohibitively expensive. Protective organic coatings, including
   powder coatings, for example, may be applied to provide resistance to attack by H2 S.
   However, conventional organic coatings containing metal-containing compounds
   included to resist permeation of H 2 S through the coating to the underlying metal are not
20 known in the art.
   From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that what is needed in the art is a coating
   composition that can be applied to steel vessels or pipes and can resist permeation by
   H2 S relative to conventional coatings.
                                          SUMMARY
25 The present invention describes coating compositions that provide improved resistance
   to permeation by hydrogen sulfide (H2 S). Methods of protecting a surface from H 2 S
   attack using such compositions are also described.
                                                -1 -

   In one embodiment, the coating composition described herein includes at least one
   epoxy-functional polymer, at least one metal-containing compound in an amount
   sufficient to react with H2 S to form a metal sulfide with low solubility, and a curing
   agent capable of reacting with the epoxy-functional polymer. When combined and
 5 applied to a steel substrate, such as a pipe or vessel, for example, the epoxy polymer,
   metal-containing compound, and the curing agent form a coating composition that resists
   permeation by H2 S to the surface on which the coating composition is applied.
   In another embodiment, a method of protecting a steel substrate from H2 S attack is
   described herein, including the steps of providing a steel substrate, applying on the steel
10 substrate a composition that includes at least one epoxy-functional polymer, at least one
   metal-containing compound present in an amount sufficient to react with H2 S to produce
   a metal sulfide with low solubility, and at least one curing agent capable of reacting with
   the epoxy-functional polymer. The method further includes the step of curing the
   composition to provide a coating resistant to H2 S permeation.
15 The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each disclosed
   embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. The description that
   follows more particularly exemplifies illustrative embodiments. In several places
   throughout the application, guidance is provided through lists of examples, which
   examples can be used in various combinations. In each instance, the recited list serves
20 only as a representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list.
   The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
   accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and
   advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and
   from the claims.
25                              SELECTED DEFINITIONS
   Unless otherwise specified, the following terms as used herein have the meanings
   provided below.
                                                 -2-

   As used herein, the term "alkyl group" means a saturated linear or branched hydrocarbon
   group including, for example, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, t-butyl, octadecyl, amyl, 2
   ethylhexyl, and the like. The term "aromatic group" refers to an aryl group (i.e., an
   arylene group), which refers to a closed aromatic ring or ring system such as phenylene,
 5 naphthylene, biphenylene, fluorenylene, and indenyl, as well as heteroarylene groups
   (i.e., a closed ring hydrocarbon in which one or more of the atoms in the ring is an
   element other than carbon (e.g., nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur, etc)). Suitable heteroaryl
   groups include furyl, thienyl, pyridyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, indolyl, isoindolyl,
   triazolyl, pyrrolyl, tetrazolyl, imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl, benzofuranyl,
10 benzothiophenyl, carbazolyl, benzoxazolyl, pyrimidinyl, benzimidazolyl, quinoxalinyl,
   benzothiazolyl, naphthyridinyl, isoxazolyl, isothiazolyl, purinyl, quinazolinyl, pyrazinyl,
    1-oxidopyridyl, pyridazinyl, triazinyl, tetrazinyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, and so on.
   When such groups are divalent, they are typically referred to as "heteroarylene" groups
   (e.g., furylene, pyridylene, etc.)
15 Substitution is anticipated on the organic groups of the compounds of the present
   invention. As used herein, the term "alkyl" is intended to include not only pure open
   chain saturated hydrocarbon alkyl substituents, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, t-butyl, and
   the like, but also alkyl substituents bearing further substituents known in the art, such as
   hydroxy, alkoxy, alkylsulfonyl, halogen atoms, cyano, nitro, amino, carboxyl, etc. Thus,
20 "alkyl" may include ether groups, haloalkyls, nitroalkyls, carboxyalkyls, hydroxyalkyls,
   sulfoalkyls, etc.
   The term "sour gas" as used herein refers to a natural or other type of gas containing
   significant amounts of hydrogen sulfide (H2 S). Crude oil that contains H 2S is called sour
   crude oil, while gas that contains H 2 S is called sour gas. The term "sour gas" as used
25 herein refers to both sour crude oil and sour gas. Conventionally, sour gas is defined as
   gas that contains more than about 20 ppm of H2 S by volume.
   The term "on", when used in the context of a coating applied on a surface or substrate,
   includes both coatings applied directly or indirectly to the surface or substrate. Thus, for
                                                 -3 -

   example, a coating applied to a primer layer overlying a substrate constitutes a coating
   applied on the substrate.
   Unless otherwise indicated, the term "polymer" includes both homopolymers and
   copolymers (i.e., polymers of two or more different monomers).
 5 The term "comprises" and variations thereof do not have a limiting meaning where these
   terms appear in the description and claims.
   The terms "preferred" and "preferably" refer to embodiments of the invention that may
   afford certain benefits, under certain circumstances. However, other embodiments may
   also be preferred, under the same or other circumstances. Furthermore, the recitation of
10 one or more preferred embodiments does not imply that other embodiments are not
   useful, and is not intended to exclude other embodiments from the scope of the
   invention.
   As used herein, "a," "an," "the," "at least one," and "one or more" are used
   interchangeably. Thus, for example, a coating composition that comprises "an" additive
15 can be interpreted to mean that the coating composition includes "one or more"
   additives.
   Also herein, the recitations of numerical ranges by endpoints include all numbers
   subsumed within that range (e.g., I to 5 includes 1, 1.5, 2, 2.75, 3, 3.80, 4, 5, etc.).
   Furthermore, disclosure of a range includes disclosure of all subranges included within
20 the broader range (e.g., I to 5 discloses I to 4, 1.5 to 4.5, 1 to 2, etc.).
                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Embodiments of the invention described herein include compositions and methods
   including an epoxy resin, a metal-containing compound, and a curing agent, wherein the
   epoxy resin, the metal-containing compound, and the curing agent are combined to form
25 a coating composition that provides resistance to H2 S permeation when applied on a steel
   substrate, such as a pipe or vessel, for example. The methods described herein include
                                                 -4-

   steps for providing an epoxy resin, a metal-containing compound, and a curing agent,
   combining these components to form a coating combination, and applying the
   combination to a substrate, preferably a steel pipe or vessel. The methods further include
   curing the powder coating composition to provide a coating resistant to permeation by
 5 H2 S. The composition described herein may be a powder coating composition or a liquid
   coating composition.
   In an embodiment, the composition described herein is a curable composition, which
   may be a powder composition or a liquid composition. In an aspect, the composition
   includes a combination of ingredients, including preferably at least one polymeric binder.
10 Suitable polymeric binders generally include a film forming resin. The binder may be
   selected from any resin or combination of resins that provides the desired film properties.
   Suitable examples of polymeric binders include thermoset and/or thermoplastic
   materials, and can be made with epoxy, polyester, polyurethane, polyamide, acrylic,
   polyvinylchloride, nylon, fluoropolymer, silicone, other resins, or combinations thereof.
15 In a preferred embodiment, the polymeric binder includes at least one epoxy-functional
   polymer or polyepoxide. Suitable polyepoxides preferably include at least two 1,2
   epoxide groups per molecule. In an aspect, the epoxy equivalent weight is preferably
   from about 50 to about 1000, more preferably from about 100 to 250, most preferably,
   less than about 250, based on the total solids content of the polyepoxide. The
20 polyepoxides may be aliphatic, alicyclic, aromatic or heterocyclic. In an aspect, the
   polyepoxides may include substituents such as, for example, halogen, hydroxyl group,
   ether groups, and the like. In a preferred aspect, the epoxy resins described herein have
   an average of greater than about one epoxy functional group per molecule, preferably
   greater than about 2.5 epoxy functional groups per molecule.
25 Suitable epoxy resin compositions or polyepoxides used in the composition and method
   described herein include without limitation, epoxy ethers formed by reaction of an
   epihalohydrin, such as epichlorohydrin, for example, with a polyphenol, typically and
   preferably in the presence of an alkali. Suitable polyphenols include, for example,
                                                -5 -

   catechol, hydroquinone, resorcinol, 4,4-dihydroxybenzophenone, 1, 5
   hydroxynaphthalene, and the like.
   Suitable epoxy resin compositions or polyepoxides may also include ethers of polyhydric
   alcohols. These compounds may be derived from polyhydric alcohols such as, for
 5 example, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, butylene glycol, 1,6-hexylene glycol,
   neopentyl glycol, diethylene glycol, glycerol, trimethylol propane, pentaerythritol, and
   the like. In an embodiment, the epoxy resin compositions or polyepoxides described
   herein are derived by oxidation of an ethylenically unsaturated alicyclic compound.
   Ethylenically unsaturated alicylic compounds are epoxidized by reaction with oxygen,
10 perbenzoic acid, acid-aldehyde monoperacetate, peracetic acid, and the like.
   Polyepoxides produced by such reaction are known to those of skill in the art and
   include, without limitation, epoxy alicylic ethers and esters.
   In an embodiment, the epoxy resin compositions or polyepoxides described herein
   include epoxy novolac resins, obtained by reaction of epihalohydrin with the
15 condensation product of aldehyde and monohydric or polyhydric phenols. Examples
   include, without limitation, the reaction product of epichlorohydrin with condensation
   product of formaldehyde and various phenols, such as for example, phenol, cresol,
   xylenol, butylmethyl phenol, phenyl phenol, biphenol, naphthol, bisphenol A, bisphenol
   F, and the like.
20 In an embodiment, the composition described herein includes one or more epoxy resin
   compositions or polyepoxides. In an aspect, the epoxy resin composition or polyepoxide
   is present in an range of about 10 to 99 wt%, preferably about 20 to 95 wt%, more
   preferably about 30 to 85 wt%, based on the total weight of the composition.
   Without limiting to theory, it is believed that varying the Tg, by varying the structure of
25 the epoxy-functional polymer, for example, can provide coating compositions with
   different properties for use in different applications. Accordingly, in an embodiment, the
   epoxy-functional polymer described herein, prior to curing, preferably has Tg of above at
   least 35'C, more preferably above at least 45'C.
                                                -6-

   In an embodiment, the composition described herein includes a combination of
   ingredients, including preferably at least one or more metal-containing compounds.
   Suitable metal-containing compounds include, for example, compounds that can react
   with the H2 S in sour gas to produce metal sulfides of low solubility in water. Without
 5 limiting to theory, it is believed that the metal component will react with H2 S, resulting in
   the precipitation of metal sulfide, effectively preventing exposure of the substrate to H2 S,
   according to the following reaction:
                                  MxOy + nH2S     *    MSy + nH20
   Where the metal oxide has a color different than the metal sulfide, the formation of the
10 metal sulfide can be easily observed by optical means. For example, if the metal
   containing component is Fe(III) oxide, red in color, reaction with H 2 S produces a black
   precipitate of iron sesquisulfide. In a section of pipe, the extent (or depth) to which the
   black sulfide has replaced the red oxide represents the extent of H 2 S permeation into the
   pipe coating.
15 Accordingly, in an embodiment, the one or more metal-containing compounds described
   herein include, for example, compounds of bismuth, cadmium, cobalt, copper, iron, lead,
   manganese, mercury, nickel, silver, tin, zinc, and the like.
   In a preferred embodiment, the composition described herein includes iron (Fe)
   containing compounds, zinc (Zn)-containing compounds, or mixtures thereof. Suitable
20 Fe-containing compounds include, for example, FeO, Fe203 (red iron oxide),
   Fe203.nH20 (yellow iron oxide), FeCO3, Fe2(CO3)3, FeSO4, Fe2(SO4)3, Fe3(PO 4 )2,
   FePO 4, Fe(OCOR)2, Fe(OCOR)3, where R is C1 to C20 alkyl or C6 to C20 aryl, and the
   like. Suitable Zn-containing compounds include, for example, ZnO, ZnCO3, ZnSO4,
   Zn3(PO 4 )2, Zn(OCOR)2, where R is C1 to C20 alkyl or C6 to C20 aryl, and the like. In a
25 preferred aspect, the metal-containing compound is Fe203 (red iron oxide), Fe203.nH20
   (yellow iron oxide), ZnO, or a combination thereof, with Fe203 particularly preferred.
   In an embodiment, the composition described herein includes one or more metal
   containing compounds. In an aspect, the metal-containing compound is present in an
                                                 -7-

   amount sufficient to react with and precipitate substantially all the H 2 S that permeates
   into the coating as a metal sulfide, thereby reducing permeation by H2 S. In an aspect, the
   metal sulfide has low solubility, i.e. a solubility product (Ksp) of preferably less than
   about 1x10- 0 . Without limiting to theory, it is believed that metal compound
 5 concentrations below about 5 wt% are insufficient to substantially reduce or prevent
   permeation. Accordingly, the composition described herein includes one or more metal
   containing compounds in an amount greater than about 5 wt%, preferably about 5 wt% to
   60 wt%, more preferably about 10 to 50 wt%, based on the total weight of the
   composition.
10 In an embodiment, the powder composition described herein is a curable composition
   that includes at least one curing agent. In an embodiment, the curing agent is described
   herein is capable of reacting with epoxy-functional polymers or resins to help achieve an
   epoxy-functional composition with a rapid cure time. In an aspect, where the coating
   composition described herein is a powder composition, the curing agent is selected to be
15 compatible with the epoxy-functional resin or polymer and operate to cure the
   composition only when melted at the temperature intended to cure the powder
   composition.
   Suitable curing agents include, for example, amine-functional compounds, phenol
   functional compounds, phenol novolac compounds, imidazole-functional compounds,
20 amino-functional compounds, and the like. Examples of amine-functional curing agents
   include, without limitation, dicyandiamide, 4,4'-diaminodiphenylsulfone, and the like.
   Examples of phenol-functional curing agents include, without limitation, bisphenol A,
   phenol-functional adducts of bisphenol A and epoxy compounds (commercially available
   as DEH 85, for example) 1,1,2,2-tetraphenolethane (commercially available as SD
25 357B), and the like. Examples of phenol novolac-type curing agents include, without
   limitation, cresol novolac curing agents (commercially available as ARADUR HT-9690
   (Ciba Specialty Chemicals), SD-1621, SD-241A (Momentive), bisphenol A-derived
   novolac curing agents (commercially available as SD-1502 (Momentive), and the like.
   Examples of catalytic curing agents include, without limitation, N,N-dimethylamino
30 pyridine, 2-methylimidazole, 2-(1-propyl)imidazole, 2-phenylimidazole , adducts of 2
                                                 -8-

   methylimidazole with the diglycidyl ether of BPA (commercially available as Epicure P
    101), and the like.
   In a preferred embodiment, the one or more curing agents included in the composition
   described herein are imidazole-functional compounds, cresol novolac compounds, and
 5 combinations thereof. In an embodiment, the composition described herein includes one
   or more curing agents, preferably imidazole-functional compounds or cresol novolac
   compounds, such as, for example, Epicure P-101, Aradur 9690, or combinations thereof.
   In an aspect, the curing agent is present in a range of preferably about 0.5 to 35 wt%,
   more preferably about 1.5 to 25 wt%, based on the total weight of the powder
10 composition.
   In an embodiment, the method described herein includes combining one or more epoxy
   resin compositions with one or more metal-containing compounds, and one or more
   curing agents to form a coating composition. The coating composition described herein
   may be a liquid coating composition, or a powder coating composition. A liquid
15 composition as described herein is prepared by formulating the epoxy-functional
   polymers, metal-containing compounds and curing agents in a liquid carrier. The liquid
   carrier may be water, organic solvent, or mixtures of various such liquid carriers.
   Accordingly, liquid coating compositions of the present invention may be either water
   based or solvent-based systems. Examples of suitable organic solvents include glycol
20 ethers, alcohols, aromatic or aliphatic hydrocarbons, dibasic esters, ketones, esters, and
   the like, and combinations thereof. Preferably, such carriers are selected to provide a
   dispersion or solution of the polymer for further formulation. The liquid composition
   may include other ingredients necessary for further formulation, including dispersing
   agents, wetting additives, surfactants, fillers, pigment, and the like, as known in the art.
25 A liquid composition as described herein is applied by standard methods known in the
   art, such as for example, spraying, electrocoating, extrusion coating, laminating, powder
   coating, and the like.
   In a preferred embodiment, the composition described herein is a high solids liquid
   composition or a powder composition. The powder composition is a fusible composition
                                                 -9-

   that melts on application of heat to form a coating film. The composition is typically
   prepared by combining the solid epoxy-functional polymer, metal-containing compound
   and curing agent by methods known in the art. For example, the components of the
   composition are mixed together in an appropriate vessel and extruded. The extrudate is
 5 then cooled and ground to a coating powder. The composition may also include other
   components typically included in powder coating compositions, such as other epoxy
   resins, fillers, flow aids, pigments, degassing aids, dry-flow additives, and the like, as
   known in the art. The powder is applied using methods known to those of skill in the art,
   such as, for example, electrostatic spray methods, fluid bed methods, and the like,
10 followed by curing to a dry film thickness of about 200 to about 500 microns (about 8 to
   20 mil), preferably 300 to 400 microns (about 12 to 15 mil).
   In an embodiment, the present invention provides a method to protect steel pipelines and
   other steel vessels from sour gas, a corrosive medium formed by a combination of
   ingredients, and especially hydrogen sulfide (H 2 S). In pipeline steel, sour gas may cause
15 failure, including hydrogen-induced stress cracking, i.e. failure without application of
   external stress, especially at the high temperatures and pressures commonly used in oil
   and gas transport.
   Accordingly, coatings with low permeability to H2 S are used to line oil and natural gas
   pipelines, i.e. large diameter pipe made from steel used as well drill pipe, production
20 pipe, line pipe, and the like. To achieve resistance to attack by high levels of H 2 S at high
   temperatures and pressures, pipe linings may be fabricated from exotic alloys such as
   nickel alloy (Inconel C-276), tantalum alloy, and the like. In less aggressive conditions,
   organic coatings, including liquid or powder coatings that demonstrate reduced
   permeability to H 2 S may be used. Conventionally, such coatings have included epoxy
25 functional resins and standard curing agents. These coatings sometimes include low
   levels of metal-containing compounds, typically oxides of iron or zinc present as
   pigments in the coating formulations. However, these metal-containing compounds are
   not present in amounts sufficient to substantially reduce permeation by H 2 S. Typically,
   metal-containing components are present below about 5 wt%, based on the total weight
30 of the composition. Surprisingly, the coating composition described herein demonstrates
                                                - 10 -

   significant reduction in H 2 S permeability, with measured H 2 S permeation of about 3 mil
   (approx. 75 micron) or less. In contrast, conventional coatings with less than 5 wt%
   metal-containing compound typically have H 2 S permeation levels of 5 mil (approx. 125
   micron) or more. Without limiting to theory, it is believed that increasing the metal
 5 containing component to levels above about 10 wt% allows the H 2 S in sour gas to be
   immobilized as a metal sulfide precipitate, thereby reducing material failure of oil and
   gas pipe by sour gas attack. Moreover, and without limiting to theory, it is believed that
   the high crosslink density of an epoxy-functional polymer crosslinked with an epoxy
   specific curing agent also reduces H 2 S permeation.
10 In an embodiment, the composition described herein is preferably applied to the surface
   of a substrate, preferably a metal substrate, more preferably a steel substrate, such as
   used in oil and gas pipeline, for example. The composition is applied using methods
   known to those of skill in the art. Prior to application of the coating composition, the
   substrate is typically and preferably degreased and grit blasted, preferably to a profile
15 depth of about 50 to 70 microns.
   In an embodiment, the methods described herein include applying a liquid or powder
   composition as described herein to a substrate, and curing the composition on the
   substrate. In an aspect, the composition is applied to a substrate by conventional methods
   known to those of skill in the art. Where the composition is a powder composition, the
20 substrate is preheated to the application temperature, about 150'C to 180'C, for a given
   period of time. The powder composition is then applied to the heated substrate by
   methods known to those of skill in the art. The coated substrate is then baked to a
   temperature of about 200'C to 300'C for a given period of time to cure the coating.
   Techniques for preparing liquid and powder compositions are known to those of skill in
25 the art. The following examples are offered to aid in understanding of the present
   invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof. Unless otherwise
   indicated, all parts and percentages are by weight.
                                                - 11 -

   In one embodiment there is a powder coating composition, comprising at least one
   epoxy-functional polymer; at least one metal-containing pigment present in an amount
   sufficient to react with H2 S to produce a metal sulfide having solubility product (Ksp) of
   less than 1 x 10-10; and at least one curing agent, wherein the composition reduces H 2 S
 5 permeation when applied to a steel pipe or vessel. In this embodiment there is preferably
   about 30 to 85 wt% of an epoxy functional polymer having a Tg of above 45'C; about 10
   to 50 wt% of a metal-containing compound capable of reacting with H 2 S to produce a
   metal sulfide having low solubility; and about 0.5 to 35 wt% of a curing agent capable of
   reacting with the epoxy-functional polymer, wherein the composition forms a coating
10 resistant to H2 S permeation when applied to a steel pipe or vessel.
                                          EXAMPLES
   The invention is illustrated by the following examples. It is to be understood that the
   particular examples, materials, amounts, and procedures are to be interpreted broadly in
   accordance with the scope and spirit of the inventions as set forth herein. Unless
15 otherwise indicated, all parts and percentages are by weight and all molecular weights
   are weight average molecular weight.
                                       TEST METHODS
   Unless indicated otherwise, the following test methods were utilized in the Examples that
   follow.
20 Hydrogen Sulfide Permeation Measurement
   The sour gas resistance of the coating is determined by exposing test samples in a sour
   gas test cell to a three-phase test medium, as defined in Table 1.
                                 Table 1. Sour Gas Test Medium
               Test duration                         168 hours
               Test temperature ('F)                 200
               Test pressure (psig)                  5000
                                                - 12  -

               Aqueous phase                        Tap water
               Hydrocarbon phase                    50:50 kerosene/toluene
               Gas phase                             10% H 2 S
                                                    5% C02
                                                    85% methane
               Decompression                         1 to 3 minutes
   Following exposure to the sour gas test medium, hydrogen sulfide permeation is
   measured by optical photomicroscopy. Each test bar, colored red prior to exposure, is
   cross-sectioned to expose the full depth of the coating. After exposure, a black surface
 5 layer (i.e. a layer containing iron sesquisulfide precipitate) indicates the zone of H2 S
   permeation, beyond which the original color of the cured coating (red) is seen. The depth
   of H2 S permeation is determined by measuring the thickness of the black iron
   sesquisulfide layer using a light microscope at 70X magnification.
10                              Example 1: Permeation Resistance
   Coating compositions were prepared as follows. A glycidylated cresol novolac resin was
   combined with yellow iron oxide and curing agents (specifically Aradur 9690 and
   Epicure P-101) and blended by shaking in a bag. The amount of each component was as
   shown in Table 2. The blend was then extruded using a Werner Pfleiderer ZSK-30
15 extruder. Extrudates were calendared and cooled by passing between chilled rollers. The
   resulting brittle solids were each combined with 0.2% dry flow agent and then ground to
   form a coating powder with average particle size of about 35 micron. The coating
   powders were then suspended on air in a fluid bed. Steel bars, preheated to 300'F, were
   dipped into the fluid bed to deposit a coating of approximately 400 to 500 micron
20 thickness. The coatings were immediately cured by post-baking for 60 minutes at 500'F.
   Following the cure step, all coatings containing more than 0.2% iron oxide were rust-red
   in color. Each coating was then tested for H 2 S permeation by exposing the coated steel
   bars to a sour gas test medium, and measuring the depth of H 2 S permeation. Results are
   shown in Table 2, and demonstrate that the metal-containing component must be present
25 at 10 wt% or higher in order to reduce H2 S permeation.
                               Table 2. H2S Permeation Resistance
                                                - 13 -

        Component         Composition      Comp.      Comp.      Comp.      Comp.      Comp.      Comp.
                          #11              #2        #2          #4         #5         #6         #7
         EPON 165         38.52            38.5       38.4       38.2       37.0       35.5       34.2
        Yellow iron       0.0              0.3        1.4        2.9        13.9       26.7       38.6
        oxide YZ1688
        Aradur 9690       22.6             22.6      22.5        22.5       21.7       20.9       38.6
        Epicure P101      0.1              0.1       0.1         0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1
        EPON 2002         6.8              6.8        6.8        6.8        6.5        6.3        6.0
        Nyad 365          30.8             30.5      29.6        28.5       19.7       9.5        0.0
        Resiflow PF67      1.1             1.1        1.1        1.1        1.0        1.0        1.0
        H2 S                   3           10.5       6.99       5.90       2.92       1.89       1.66
        permeation
        (mil)
              Example 2: Effect of Zn-containing component on H2S permeation
  To determine the effect of ZnO on H2 S permeation, a coating composition was prepared
  according to the method of Example 1, but also including ZnO, with the components
5 present in the amounts shown in Table 3. This composition was applied to test bars,
  cured and tested following exposure to sour gas. Results are shown in Table 3.
                         Table 3. H2S Permeation of coating with zinc oxide
                                  Material                          Amount (wt%)
                    EPON 165                               32.6
                     YZ-1688                               2.5
                    ZnO                                    30.2
                    Aradur 9690                            19.2
                    Epicure P101                           0.1
                    EPON 2002                              5.8
  1 Compositions 1-4 are conventional coating compositions, while compositions 5-7 are examples of the
  inventive composition.
  2 All amounts are expressed as weight percent, based on the total weight of the composition.
  3 In the absence of iron oxide, H2 S permeation does not cause a color change in the coating, and therefore,
  permeation cannot be measured by the optical techniques described herein.
                                                     -  14  -

                   Nyad 325                        8.7
                   Resiflow PF67                   0.9
                   H 2 S permeation (mil)          3.23
   The results in Table 3 suggest that zinc oxide may reduce H 2 S permeation to levels
   below that expected for low levels of iron oxide.
 5         Example 4: Effect of different types of iron oxide on H2S permeation
   To determine the effect of different types of iron oxide on H 2 S permeation, a coating
   composition was prepared according to Example 1, with red iron oxide instead of yellow
   iron oxide, and with the components present in the amounts shown in Table 4. This
   composition was applied to test bars, cured and tested following exposure to sour gas.
10 Results are shown in Table 4.
                                              - 15  -

                   Table 4: H2S permeation of coating with red iron oxide
                                Material                   Amount (wt%)
                   EPON 165                         33.6
                   Red iron oxide R-2899            30.8
                   Aradur 9690                      19.7
                   Epicure P-101                    0.1
                   EPON 2002                        5.9
                   Nyad 325                         8.9
                   Resiflow PF67                    0.9
                   H 2 S permeation (mil)           2.28
   The results in Table 4 suggest that different types of iron oxide may be useful to reduce
   H2 S permeation.
 5
                                  Example 5: Effect of curing agent
   To determine the effect of different curing agents on H 2 S permeation, a composition was
   prepared according to Example 1, but using different curing agents as shown in Table 5
   and Table 6. The compositions were applied to test bars, cured and exposed to sour gas
10 as described in Example 1. Results are shown in Table 5 and Table 6.
              Table 5: H2S permeation of coating with different curing agents
                                Material                   Amount (wt%)
                   EPON 165                         57.3
                   YZ-1688                          27.8
                   Dicyandiamide                    4.5
                   (2-1-propyl)-imidazole           0.1
                   C-3000 Mica                      9.3
                   Resiflow PF67                    1.0
                   H 2 S permeation (mil)           1.95
15
              Table 6: H2S permeation of coating with different curing agents
                                               - 16  -

                                  Material                 Amount (wt%)
                    EPON 165                        34.8
                    YZ-1688                         24.7
                    SD 357B (TPE)                   20.8
                     2-1 -propyl)-imidazole         0.1
                    C-3000 Mica                     12.4
                    Resiflow PF67                   1.0
                    H 2 S permeation (mil)          2.27
   Results in Tables 5 and 6 suggest that different curing agents can be used in a coating to
   provide reduced H 2S permeation.
   The complete disclosure of all patents, patent applications, and publications, and
 5 electronically available material cited herein are incorporated by reference. The
   foregoing detailed description and examples have been given for clarity of understanding
   only. No unnecessary limitations are to be understood therefrom. The invention is not
   limited to the exact details shown and described, for variations obvious to one skilled in
   the art will be included within the invention defined by the claims. The invention
10 illustratively disclosed herein suitably may be practiced, in some embodiments, in the
   absence of any element which is not specifically disclosed herein.
                                               - 17  -

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1.      A powder coating composition, comprising
 5         at least one epoxy-functional polymer;
           at least one metal-containing pigment present in an amount sufficient to react with H 2 S to
   produce a metal sulfide having solubility product (Ksp) of less than 1 x 10-10; and
 0         at least one curing agent,
   wherein the composition reduces H 2 S permeation when applied to a steel pipe or vessel.
   2.      The powder coating composition of claim 1 comprising
 5
           about 30 to 85 wt% of an epoxy functional polymer having a Tg of above 450 C;
           about 10 to 50 wt% of a metal-containing compound capable of reacting with H 2 S to
   produce a metal sulfide having low solubility; and
 0
           about 0.5 to 35 wt% of a curing agent capable of reacting with the epoxy-functional
   polymer,
   wherein the composition forms a coating resistant to H 2 S permeation when applied to a steel pipe
25 or vessel.
   3.      A method of protecting a steel substrate from H 2 S permeation, the method comprising
           providing a steel substrate;
30
                                                    18

           applying on the steel substrate the powder coating composition of claim 1; and
           curing the composition to form a coating resistant to H 2 S permeation.
    4.     The composition of claim 1, wherein the epoxy-functional polymer is glycidylated.
 5
    5.     The composition of claim 1, wherein the epoxy-functional polymer is selected from
    glycidylated novolac resins, glycidylated cresol novolac resins, glycidylated polyamines, or
    mixtures or combinations thereof.
 0  6.     The composition of claim 1, wherein the metal-containing compound is selected from
    metal oxide, metal carbonate, metal sulfate, metal phosphate, metal carboxylate, or mixtures or
    combinations thereof.
    7.     The composition of claim 1, wherein the metal-containing compound comprises one or
 5  more oxides or salts of Fe(II), Fe(III), or Zn(II).
    8.     The composition of claim 1, wherein the metal-containing compound is selected from
    FeO, Fe203, Fe203.nH20, FeCO3, Fe2(CO3)2, FeSO4, Fe2(SO 4 )3, Fe3(PO 4 )2, FePO 4 , Fe(OCOR)2,
    Fe(OCOR)3, wherein R is C 1-C20 alkyl or C6-C20 aryl, or mixtures or combinations thereof.
 10
    9.     The composition of claim 1, wherein the metal-containing compound is selected from
    Fe203, Fe203.nH20, ZnO or combinations thereof.
    10.    The composition of claim 1, wherein the curing agent is selected from amine-functional
25  compounds, phenol-functional compounds, cresol novolac-based compounds, bisphenol A-based
    compounds, catalytic curing agents, or combinations thereof.
                                                        19

