Abstract
Provided herein are salts for use in food products having the formula:
MgCl 2-xKCl-yNH 4CI-zH 20, wherein x + y is about 1, wherein x is greater than or equal to zero
and less than 1, wherein y is greater than zero and less than or equal to 1, and wherein z is
from about 4 to about 6.

               CARNALLITE-LIKE FOOD SALTS AND PRODUCTS THEREOF
                                      RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
No. <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
[0001 a]     This patent application claims the benefit of U S Provisional Application Ser.
No. 61/038,706, filed March 21, 2008, and UK Application 0820056.0 filed October 31, 2008,
both of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                            BACKGROUND
[0002]       Sodium-based salts are used in a variety of food products. For example, sodium
chloride, also known as table salt, is commonly used in food. However, excess consumption of
sodium chloride has been linked to high blood pressure (hypertension).
                                   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0003]       Described herein are food salts and food salt products. The food salts and food salt
products have a superior taste and also provide an enhanced taste to other types of spices. The
food salts and food salt products also have superior properties for the preservation of foods. In
addition, the food salts and food salt products achieve the aforementioned results with lower, or
little, or no sodium as compared to sodium chloride. As a result, the food salt products are a
healthy alternative to sodium chloride. In some embodiments, the food salts and food salt
products taste like sodium chloride, season like sodium chloride, and/or bake and cook like
sodium chloride. In some embodiments, the food salts and food salt products described herein
have no carbon-based ingredients.
[0004]       Provided herein are substantially non-hygroscopic salts for use in a food products
having the formula:
                            MgKx(NH 4)yCIg-zH 2O                  Formula III
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1, wherein 0 <x < 1, wherein 0 < y < 1 , wherein g is about
3, wherein z is about 4-6, and wherein the salt for use in a food product is substantially non
hygroscopic and substantially free of hydrogen chloride
[0005]       In some embodiments, provided herein is a substantially non-hygroscopic salt for use
in a food product having the formula
                            MgKx(NH 4)yCIg-zH 2O                  Formula III

                                                  -2
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1, wherein x is about 0.05 to about 0.45, wherein y is about
0.55 to about 0.95, wherein g is about 3, wherein z is about 4-6, and wherein the salt for use in
a food product is substantially non-hygroscopic and substantially free of hydrogen chloride.
[0006]    In some embodiments, z is 6.
[0007]    Described herein are carnallite salts that are suitable for use as salts in food products.
The salts are substantially non-hygroscopic and substantially free of hydrochloric acid and/or
free ammonium chloride and are suitable replacements for sodium-based salts in a variety of
food products.
[0008]    In some embodiments, the salts for use in food products described herein are
prepared by
          a)   dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium (i) magnesium chloride, and (ii)
               ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof;
          b) boiling the aqueous medium; and
          c)   removing the aqueous medium by evaporation to afford the salt for use in a food
               product;
wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium chloride is
1: x : y.
[0009]    In some embodiments, the salts for use in food product described herein are prepared
by:
          a)   dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium (i) magnesium chloride, (ii)
               ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof, and (iii) an acid
               scavenger;
          b) boiling the aqueous medium;
          c)   precipitating the salt for use in a food product from the aqueous medium;
          d) filtering the precipitated salt for use in a food product; and
          e)   optionally recycling the filtrate;
wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium chloride is 1
: x : y.

                                                 -3
[0010]      In some embodiments, the salt for use in a food product is prepared by a filtration
process, a semi-dry filtration process, a spray drying process, a bulk process or a drum dryer
process.
[0011]      In some embodiments, the salts for use in a food product are prepared by dissolving
in or wetting with the aqueous medium an additional amount of about 1-10 mol% of ammonium
chloride In some embodiments, the salts for use in a food product are prepared by dissolving in
or wetting with the aqueous medium an additional amount of about 2 mol% of ammonium
chloride.
[0012]      In some embodiments of the salts, x is about 0.25 and y is about 0.75.
[0013]      In some embodiments, provided herein is a particle comprising a core and at least
one layer, wherein the core composes a salt described herein and wherein at least one layer of
the particle composes sodium chloride, potassium chloride, or a combination thereof.
[0014]       Also provided herein is a composition comprising (i) a salt for use in a food product
described herein and (ii) sodium chloride, potassium chloride, or a combination thereof.
[0015]      In some embodiments, the composition comprises (i) a salt for use in a food product
described herein and (ii) an aqueous medium, wherein the salt for use in a food product is
dissolved and dissociated in the aqueous medium.
[0016]      In some embodiments, an aqueous solution is prepared by dissolving a salt for use in
a food product described herein in potable water. In some embodiments, the aqueous solution
comprises magnesium cations, potassium cations and ammonium cations in a molar ratio of 1
x : y. In some embodiments, the aqueous solution is prepared by further dissolving sodium
chloride and potassium chloride in the aqueous medium. In some embodiments, the aqueous
solution comprises sodium cations, potassium cations, magnesium cations, and ammonium
cations, wherein the molar ratio of sodium cations to potassium cations is from 1:0.005 to 1:0.5,
the molar ratio of sodium cations to magnesium cations is from 1:0.005 to 1:0.1, and wherein
the molar ratio of sodium cations to ammonium cations is from 1:0 to 1:0.1.
[0017]      Also provided herein is a nutrient substance, a semi-finished food product, a flavoring
product, a processed food product that has, during the preparation thereof, been processed or
preserved with a salt for use in a food product described herein, a composition described
herein, or a solution described herein.

                                                 -4
[0018]     In some embodiments, the nutrient substance, semi-finished food product, or
processed food product is selected from meats, fish. vegetables, snack foods, soups, sauces,
daily products, and yeast based products.
[0019]     Also provided herein is a method of decreasing the sodium content of a food product
by at least partially substituting a sodium containing salt in the food product with a salt for use in
a food product described herein, a composition of described herein, or a solution described
herein.
[0020]     In some embodiments, a food product containing a salt described herein does not
have a substantially decreased taste or shelf-life.
[0021]     Further provided herein is a method of preparing a substantially non-hygroscopic salt
for use in a food product having the formula:
                            MgKx(NH 4)yClg-zH 20                 Formula Ill
comprising:
           a)   dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium (i) magnesium chloride, and (ii)
                ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof; and
           b) removing the aqueous medium by evaporation to afford the sale for use in a food
                product;
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1, wherein 0 <x < 1, wherein 0 < y <1 , wherein g is about
3, wherein z is about 4-6, and wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium
chloride to ammonium chloride is 1 : x : y.
[0022]     In some embodiments, the sum of x and y is about 1, x is about 0.05 to about 0.45, y
is about 0.5 to about 0.95, g is about 3, z is about 4-6, and the molar ratio of magnesium
chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium chloride is 1 : x : y.
[0023]     In some embodiments, step (b) further comprises dissolving in or wetting with the
aqueous medium an additional about 1-10 mol% of ammonium chloride. In some embodiments,
the method further comprises dissolving in or wetting with the aqueous medium an additional
about 2 mol% of ammonium chloride.
[0024]     Also provided herein is a method of preparing a substantially non-hygroscopic salt for
use in a food product having the formula:
                            MgKx(NH 4)yClg-zH 20                 Formula Ill
comprising:

                                                  -5
           a)   dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium (i) magnesium chloride, (ii)
                ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof, and (iii) an acid
                scavenger;
           b)   removing the aqueous medium by evaporation to afford the salt for use in a food
                product;
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1, wherein 0 <x < 1, wherein 0 < y <1, wherein g is about 3,
wherein z is about 4-6, and wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium
chloride to ammonium chloride is 1 : x : y.
[0025]     In some embodiments of the method x is about 0.05 to about 0.45, y is about 0.5 to
about 0.95, g is about 3, z is about 4-6, and the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium
chloride to ammonium chloride is about 1 : x : y.
[0026]     In some embodiments, removing the aqueous medium by evaporation comprises
boiling the aqueous medium.
[0027]     Provided herein is a method of preparing a salt for use in a food product having the
formula:
                             MgKx(NH 4)yClg-zH 20              Formula Ill
comprising:
           a)   dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium (i) magnesium chloride, (ii)
                ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof, and (iii) an acid
                scavenger;
           b) precipitating the salt for use in a food product from the aqueous medium;
           c)   filtering the precipitate; and
           d) optionally recycling the filtrate;
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1, wherein 0 <x < 1, wherein 0 < y <1 , wherein g is about
3, wherein z is about 4-6, and wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium
chloride to ammonium chloride is 1: x : y.
[0028]     In some embodiments of the method, the sum of x and y is about 1, x is about 0.05 to
about 0.45, y is about 0.5 to about 0.95, wherein g is about 3, z is about 4-6, and the molar ratio
of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium chloride is 1 : x : y.
[0029]     In some embodiments, step (b) further comprises dissolving in or wetting with the
aqueous medium an additional amount of about 1-10 mol% of ammonium chloride. In some

                                                  -6
embodiments, step (b) further comprises dissolving in or wetting with the aqueous medium an
additional amount of about 2 mol% of ammonium chloride.
[0030]     In some embodiments, the salt is prepared by a filtration process, a semi-dry filtration
process, a spray drying process, a bulk process or a drum dryer process.
[0031]     Provided herein is a substantially non-hygroscopic salt for use in a food product
having the formula:
                            MgKx(NH 4)yClg-zH 20                Formula Ill
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1, wherein 0 <x < 1, wherein 0 < y <1 , wherein g is about
3, wherein z is about 4-6; wherein less than about 5% of the K ions in the salt for use in a food
product are optionally substituted with a physiologically acceptable cation; wherein less than
about 5% of the NH 4 ions in the salt for use in a food product are optionally substituted with a
physiologically acceptable cation; wherein less than about 5% of the Cl ions in the salt for use in
a food product are optionally substituted with a physiologically acceptable anion, and wherein
the salt for use in a food product is substantially non-hygroscopic.
[0032]     In some embodiments, the physiologically acceptable cation is selected from calcium,
zinc, selenium, copper, cobalt, chromium. manganese, molybdenum and combinations thereof.
In some embodiments, the physiologically acceptable anion is selected from fluoride, iodide,
phosphate, silicate, selenate, sulfate, nitrite and combinations thereof.
[0033]     Also provided herein is a substantially non-hygroscopic salt fur use in a food product
having the formula:
                            MgKx(NH4)yClg-zH 20                 Formula Ill
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1, wherein x is about 0.05 to about 0.45, wherein y is about
0.5 to about 0.95, wherein g is about 3, wherein z is about 4-6; wherein less than about 5% of
the K ions in the salt for use in a food product are optionally substituted with a physiologically
acceptable cation; wherein less than about 5% of the NH 4 , ions in the salt for use in a food
product are optionally substituted with a physiologically acceptable cation; wherein less than
about 5% of the Cl ions in the salt for use in a food product are optionally substituted with a
physiologically acceptable anion, and wherein the salt for use in a food product is substantially
non-hygroscopic.
[0034]     In some embodiments, the physiologically acceptable cation is selected from calcium,
zinc, selenium, copper, cobalt, chromium, manganese, molybdenum and combinations thereof.

                                                  -7
In some embodiments, the physiologically acceptable anion is selected from fluoride, iodide,
phosphate, silicate, selenate, sulfate, nitrite and combinations thereof.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0035]     The novel features of the invention are set forth with particularity in the appended
claims. A better understanding of the features and advantages of the present invention will be
obtained by reference to the following detailed description that sets forth illustrative
embodiments, in which the principles of the invention are utilized, and the accompanying
drawings of which:
[0036]     Figure 1 illustrates the powder X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) pattern for a salt product
having the formula MgCl2-xKCI-yNH 4 CI-zH 20, wherein x is about 0.25, y is about 0.75 and z is
about 6, with a stick pattern reference for NH4 MgCl3-6H 2 0.
[0037]     Figure 2 illustrates the X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) pattern for a salt product having the
formula MgCl2-xKCI-yNH 4CI-zH 20, wherein x is about 0.25, y is about 0.75 and z is about 6,
with a stick pattern reference for KMgCl3-6H 20.
[0038]     Figure 3 illustrates the X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) pattern for a salt product having the
formula MgCl2-xKCl-yNH 4CI-zH 20, wherein x is about 0.25, y is about 0.75 and z is about 6,
with a stick pattern reference for MgCl 2.
[0039]     Figure 4 illustrates the X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) pattern for a salt product having the
formula MgCl 2-xKCI-yNH 4CI-zH 20, wherein x is about 0.25, y is about 0.75 and z is about 6,
with a stick pattern reference for NH4 CI.
[0040]     Figure 5 illustrates the X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) pattern for a salt product having the
formula MgCl2-xKCI-yNH 4CI-zH 20, wherein x is about 0.25, y is about 0.75 and z is about 6,
with a stick pattern reference for KCl.
[0041]     Figure 6 illustrates the X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) pattern for a salt product having the
formula MgCl2-xKCl-yNH 4CI-zH 20, wherein x is about 0.25, y is about 0.75 and z is about 6,
with a stick pattern reference for NH4 MgCl3-6H 2 0.
                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0042]     Sodium salts, e.g., sodium chloride, have a harmful effect on human health. Diets
comprising high levels of sodium lead to morbidity in arterial hypertension and mortality in
myocardial infarction. Conversely, magnesium salts reduce blood pressure and ammonium
salts serve as preservatives that slow the growth of bacteria in food materials and products.
Moreover, ammonium is a normal metabolic product in the metabolism of nitrogen containing
compounds, such as protein. Excess physiological ammonium is captured by carbon dioxide

                                                   -8
and converted into urea, which is excreted from the body in the form of urine. Thus, magnesium
and ammonium salts can serve as suitable substitutes in sodium-salt preparations if
requirements related to taste, nutritional properties and ease of manufacturing and/or
processing are met.
[0043]       Preferably, sodium-salt substitutes are chloride salts. Other salts such as sulfate,
carbonate and/or phosphate salts have limited utility in sodium-salt substitutes because of their
bitter taste and/or limited solubility. Chloride salts of alkali metals (e.g., potassium) and/or
alkaline earth metals (e.g., magnesium, calcium) are physiologically acceptable substitutes for
sodium-based salts; but such chloride salts are limited by being unduly hygroscopic which limits
their utility as food salts. Moreover, when the salts are dried, hydrochloric acid is released from
the product and/or by other acidic components which leads to an unpleasant (e.g., metallic or
bitter) taste or lingering after-taste.
[0044]       Carnallite is a naturally occurring double salt mineral comprising alkali metal chlorides
(e.g., potassium chloride) and alkaline earth metal chlorides (e.g., magnesium chloride). In
some instances, a carnallite salt is an ammonium carnallite, e.g., a triple salt comprising
potassium chloride, magnesium chloride and ammonium chloride. The presence of
physiologically acceptable salts in carnallite and carnallite-type salts makes them good
candidates for food salt substitutes. U.S. Patent Nos. 3,312,607, and 3,337,432, describe
industrial applications of ammonium carnallite salts (e.g., as cell feed in magnesium cells).
However, salts prepared by methods of preparation described therein are not described as
suitable for human consumption. Generally such industrial salts are not used in food products or
human consumption. U.S. Patent Nos. 3,323,875, 3,536,444, 3,798,314, U.S. Patent Appl. No.
2008/0025908, GB 1308084, GB 1219969 and GB1 130183 describe industrial applications of
carnallite double salts (e.g., salts comprising magnesium and potassium chlorides, or
magnesium and ammonium chlorides), for example, in recovery of magnesium salts from
brines. None of these references describes physiological compatibility of camallite salts or the
applicability of carnallite salts as food salts. WO 00/44245 does not specifically describe
stability, hygroscopicity or hydrochloric acid content of salts described therein.
[0045]       Accordingly, provided herein are food salts for use in food products comprising
magnesium chloride, potassium chloride and ammonium chloride that are suitable substitutes
for sodium-based food salts. Substitution of sodium-based salts with the salts describe herein
provides food products with reduced levels of sodium. In some instances, the salts described
herein serve as complete or partial replacements for sodium-based salts in food products and
provide low sodium products. Furthermore, in certain embodiments, the salt products and salts

                                                  -9
provided herein possess good preservative characteristics, good physical properties (e.g.,
ability to sprinkle or pour even under damp or humid conditions) and/or good flavor. In certain
instances, the salts for use in food products described herein are palatable with no discernible
difference in taste compared to conventional sodium-based salts and are suitable for use in a
variety of food products described herein. In some instances, food salts described herein are
substantially non-hygroscopic, substantially free of hydrochloric acid and/or free ammonium
chloride, and have a pleasant taste.
[0046]      In some embodiments, food salts described herein are prepared by novel methods
that provide salts that arc suitable for human consumption. The methods of preparation
described herein allow for case of manufacturing via a cost-effective process and provide free
flowing non-hygroscopic salts that are substantially free of hydrochloric acid and/or free
ammonium chloride.
[0047]      In some embodiments, the food salts described herein are prepared by the dissolution
or wetting of the salt components (e.g., potassium chloride, ammonium chloride, magnesium
chloride, calcium chloride) in an aqueous medium. In some instances, the presence of dissolved
ammonium chloride results in a solution pH-value of 5.0-5.5. In certain instances, ammonium
chloride breaks down to ammonia and hydrogen chloride in the presence of concentrated
solutions comprising magnesium chloride. In certain conventional dissolving and cooling
methods of preparation, the released hydrogen chloride is occluded in the formed crystal lattice
and the food salt product has sharp taste with reduced stability (i.e., the product is hygroscopic).
[0048]      In certain instances, aqueous solutions prepared according to processes described
herein are subjected to heat and/or reduced pressure to exhaust the hydrogen chloride and
obtain a food salt product that is substantially free of HCI and substantially non-hygroscopic. In
some instances, subjecting the aqueous solutions prepared according to processes described
to heat and/or reduced 20 pressure leads to hydrolyzation of ammonium chloride (e.g., in some
instances about 1-10% of the ammonium chloride is hydrolyzed). In some embodiments, an
additional amount of ammonium chloride (e.g., about 1-10% molar excess) is added to an
aqueous mixture that has been subjected to heat and/or reduced pressure. In some instances,
addition of excess ammonium chloride provides a salt, in a subsequent step described herein,
wherein there is no hydrogen chloride occluded in the 25 crystal lattice and wherein the
stoichiometry of ammonium chloride is such that there is no free ammonium chloride left outside
the crystal lattice of the salt product. The addition of about 1-10% molar excess of ammonium
chloride to an aqueous solution prepared according to processes described herein, that is
subjected to heat and/or reduced pressure, represents an advance over prior art as this method

                                                 -10
of producing carnallite salts that are substantially free of hydrogen chloride and ammonium
chloride has not been disclosed in prior art. Ammonium carnallite salts prepared by the methods
described herein have improved Critical Relative Humidity values and are stable even in humid
conditions (e.g., 70% humidity).
[0049]     In some embodiments, methods of preparation of carnallite salts described herein are
also applicable to the preparation of naturally occurring carnallite (i.e., a magnesium chloride,
potassium chloride double salt). Addition of a 1-10% molar excess of NH4 CI to an aqueous
solution of magnesium chloride and potassium chloride prepared according to processes
described herein and subjecting the aqueous solution to heat and/or reduce pressure affords, in
a subsequent step described herein, salt products that are suitable for human consumption and
have improved stability in atmospheric humidity. Such natural carnallite salts that are
substantially free of hydrogen chloride and are substantially non-hygroscopic arc of value when
ammonium-free food salts are desired.
[0050]     Provided herein are non-sodium salts, low sodium salt compositions and/or low
sodium food products. In certain embodiments, provided herein are salts comprising (i)
magnesium cations, (ii) potassium cations, ammonium cations, or combinations thereof, and (iii)
chloride. In further embodiments, the salts provided herein are hydrates. Further provided
herein are low or no sodium salt compositions and food products comprising (i) magnesium
cations, (ii) potassium cations, ammonium cations, or combinations thereof, and (iii) chloride.
Food Salts for Use in Food Products
[0051]     Provided herein is a salt for use in a food product having the Formula 1:
                            MgCl2-xKCI-yNH 4CI-xH 20             Formula I
[0052]     In certain embodiments, the sum of the terms x and y is about 1. In further or
alternative embodiments, the term x is greater than or equal to zero and less than 1. In further
or alternative embodiments, the term y is greater than zero and less than or equal to 1. In
further or alternative embodiments, the term z is about 4 to about 6. In specific embodiments,
the term z is about 6. In certain embodiments, the term y is greater than 0. In further or
alternative embodiments, x is greater than 0. In some embodiments, the term x is about 0.05 to
about 0.45, about 0.1 to about 0.4, about 0.1 to about 0.3, about 0.2 to about 0.3, about 0.25,
about 0.55 to about 0.95, about 0.6 to about 0.9, about 0.7 to about 0.8, or about 0.75. In
certain embodiments, the term y is about 0.05 to about 0.45, about 0.1 to about 0.4, about 0.1
to about 0.3, about 0.2 to about 0.3, about 0.25, about 0.55 to about 0.95, about 0.6 to about
0.9, about 0.7 to about 0.8, about 0.75. In specific embodiments, the term x is about 0.25 and

                                                  - 11
the term y is about 0.75. In more specific embodiments, provided herein is a salt wherein x is
about 0.25, y is about 0.75 and the XRD pattern of the salt comprises any one or more peaks
with a 20 value about that of the peaks set forth in Sample 1 or Sample 2 of Figure 1. In certain
embodiments, the term x is from about 0.05 to about 0.045 and the term y is from about 0.55 to
about 0.95. In other specific embodiments, the term x is about 0.75 and the term y is about
0.25. In still other specific embodiments, the term x is about 0.5 and the term y is about 0.5.
[0053]     Salts for use in a food product for Formula I, wherein x + y = 1, can also be written as
Formula 1l, wherein x, y and z are as defined above:
                             MgKx(NH 4)yCl 3 -xH20              Formula ||
[0054]     In certain embodiments, in any of the food salts or other compositions described
herein, a small portion of the chloride anions are substituted with another anion, e.g., a
physiologically acceptable anion. In certain amounts, anions such as, by way of non-limiting
example, fluoride, iodide, phosphate, silicate, selenate, sulfate, nitrite, combinations thereof,
and the like are physiologically acceptable. In certain embodiments, a physiologically
acceptable amount, less than 5%, less than 3%, less than 2%, less than 1%, less than 0.5%,
less than 0.1%, or less than 0.01% of the chloride anions are substituted with a physiologically
acceptable anion. In certain embodiments, the salt product is formulated such that less than 100
mg per day of selenium (e.g., from selenate and other sources) is consumed. Accordingly, in
certain embodiments, provided herein are salts for use in a food product of Formula III:
                             MgKx(NH 4)yClg-zH 20              Formula III
[0055]     In certain embodiments, the terms x, y and z are as defined above. In some
embodiments, the term g is from about 2.9 to about 3. In specific embodiments, the term g is
about 3.
[0056]     Similarly, in certain embodiments, provided herein are salt products wherein a portion
of the potassium and/or ammonium cations are replaced with other physiologically acceptable
cations. In certain embodiments, the physiologically acceptable cations are selected from, by
way of non-limiting example, calcium, zinc, selenium, copper, cobalt, chromium, manganese,
molybdenum and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, a physiologically acceptable
amount, less than 1%, less than 5%, less than 3%, less than 2%, less than 1%, less than 0.5%,
less than 0.1%, or less than 0.01% of the potassium and/or ammonium cations are substituted
with a physiologically acceptable cation.
[0057]     Thus, in certain embodiments, provided herein is a salt for use in a food product of
Formula IV:

                                                -12
                           MgMfKx(NH 4 )yClgXh-zH 2 0          Formula IV.
[0058]     In certain embodiments, M is a physiologically acceptable cation and the sum of f*(the
charge of M), x and y is about 1. For example, in certain embodiments, M is Ca2 ' and in such
instances, the sum of 2f, x and y is about 1. In certain embodiments term f is from 0 to about
0.1, from 0 to about 0.05, or from about 0.01 to about 0.05. In some embodiments, X is a
physiologically acceptable anion and the term h is equal to about 3-g. In certain embodiments
term h is from 0 to about 0.2, from 0 to about 0.05, or from about 0.01 to about 0.05. In specific
embodiments, f is from about 0.01 to about 0.1 and h is zero. In alternative embodiments, h is
from about 0.01 to about 0.2 and f is zero. The terms x, y, g and z are as described herein
above.
[0059]     In certain embodiments, any of the salt products of Formulas I-IV comprises one or
more of the following: (i) a magnesium chloride and potassium chloride double salt; (ii) a
magnesium chloride and ammonium chloride double salt; and (iii) a magnesium chloride;
potassium chloride and ammonium chloride triple salt. In further embodiments, the salt products
of either of Formulas Ill-IV further comprises a double salt of zinc chloride and ammonium
chloride.
[0060]     In specific embodiments, zinc is present in either of Formulas Ill or IV as a cation
substitute of magnesium in an amount such that less than 15 mg per day of zinc is consumed
by an individual In certain embodiments, the salt product is formulated such that less than 250
pg, or less than 100 pg per day of selenium (e g , from selenium cations and/or selenate anion
sources) is consumed by an individual.
[0061]     Furthermore, in certain embodiments, the salt products described herein comprise
less than a detectable amount (e.g., by taste), less than 3%, less than 1%, less than 0 5%, or
less than 0 1% by weight Of NH4 CI free from (i.e., outside the lattice of) a magnesium chloride
and ammonium chloride double salt and/or a magnesium chloride, potassium chloride and
ammonium chloride triple salt. Furthermore, in certain embodiments, the salt products described
herein comprise less than a detectable amount (e.g., by smell or taste), less than 3%, less than
1%, less than 0.5%, less than 0.1%, or less than 0.01% by weight of HCI.
[0062]     In certain embodiments, the salt for use in a food product of any of Formulas I-IV is
substantially non-hygroscopic. In one embodiment, such salt product absorbs less than 1 wt-%
per month upon extended storage in the absence of a dessicant. In certain embodiments, the
salt product described herein has a critical relative humidity value of greater than 70%, greater
than 75%, greater than 80%, or about 75% to about 80% at 300 C. In certain instances, a salt

                                                     -13
product of Formula 1 has a CRH value of about 70% at 300 C, e.g., wherein x is zero and y is
one.
[0063]      It is to be understood that as used herein, any numerical value, whether described
exactly or as about that numerical value, includes the disclosure of about that amount and
exactly that amount. Thus, the disclosure of less than about 3% includes the disclosure of less
than 3% and the disclosure of less than 3% includes the disclosure of less than about 3%.
[0064]      In certain embodiments, any of the salt products of Formulas I-IV is a food salt, an
edible salt, a physiologically acceptable food salt, or the like. In preferred embodiments, the salt
product is non-toxic. In certain embodiments, any of the salt products of Formulas I-IV is
suitable for use in any food product described herein.
[0065]      The term "food salt" represents a salt (e.g., any salt described herein) suitable for use
in or with food products. A food salt is suitable for human consumption. A food salt has no
toxicity, or a reduced toxicity, when used in amounts that are similar to amounts of sodium
chloride or sodium-based salts. A food salt is a free flowing non-hygroscopic salt that is
substantially free of hydrogen chloride. A food salt is also substantially free of free ammonium
chloride. The food salts or salts for use in food products described herein are pleasant tasting
palatable salts (i.e., there is no discernible difference between the taste of the salts described
herein and sodium chloride and/or sodium-based salts) and do not have a metallic taste or
after-taste.
Process of Makinq
[0066]      In various embodiments, the salts for use in a food product described herein are
prepared in any manner. In specific embodiments, a processes described herein is utilized to
prepare a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV. In more specific embodiments, a process
described herein is utilized to prepare a non-hygroscopic salt product of any of Formulas I-IV.
[0067]      In certain embodiments, a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV is prepared by:
            a.      dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium:
                  i.    magnesium chloride, and
                 ii.    ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof;
            b.      removing the aqueous medium by evaporation to afford the salt.
[0068]      In some embodiments, the molar ratio of chlorides dissolved in the aqueous medium
is 1 part magnesium chloride to x parts potassium chloride to y parts ammonium chloride. In
some instances, the aqueous medium is removed by evaporation (e.g., by boiling and/or

                                                  -14
otherwise removing by heat and/or reduced pressure). In some instances, boiling leads to
hydrolysis of a small mole percent (< 10%) of ammonium chloride. In some embodiments, a
slight molar excess of ammonium chloride is added to the aqueous medium when the aqueous
medium is subjected to boiling and/or heat and/or reduced pressure. In some embodiments, the
molar excess of ammonium chloride added to the aqueous medium is from about 1-10 mole%.
In some specific embodiments, the molar excess of ammonium chloride added to the aqueous
medium is from about 1-5 mole%. In some specific embodiments, the molar excess of
ammonium chloride added to the aqueous medium is about 2 mole%. In some embodiments,
the molar excess of ammonium chloride is added prior to boiling the aqueous solution, e.g.,
prior to heating the aqueous solution, or when the temperature of the aqueous solution is about
350C, about 450C, about 550C, about 650C, about 750C, about 850C, or about 950C.
[0069]      In some embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to ammonium chloride
utilized in the process is from about 1:1.01y to about 1:1.1y. In certain embodiments, the molar
ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium chloride utilized in the process
is about 1 : x : >y, about 1 : x : y, or from about 1 : x : 1.01y to about 1 : x 1.1y. In certain
embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium
chloride is from about 1 x 1.01y to about 1 x 1.05y. In more specific embodiments, the molar
ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium chloride is about 1 x 1.02y.
Thus, for example, wherein the salt prepared hereby is MgCl 2-(KCI)O. 5 -(NH 4CI)O. 5-zH 20 (i.e.,
wherein x = y = 0.5), the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium
chloride utilized in the process is about 1:05:0.51.
[0070]      In certain embodiments, the aqueous medium of any process described herein is
removed/evaporated by reduced pressure and/or increased temperature In specific
embodiments, the aqueous medium is removed/concentrated by heating aqueous medium to a
boil (e.g., to at least about 100 C under ambient pressure or to lower temperatures under
reduced pressure).Furthermore, in certain embodiments, commercial MgCl 2 used in the process
is contaminated with residual hydrochloride originated from the process of preparing the MgCl 2.
In some of such embodiments, this residual hydrochloride is removed during the process of
removing/evaporating the aqueous medium. In certain embodiments, the aqueous medium is or
comprises water (e.g., distilled water). In some embodiments, the excess ammonium chloride
(e.g., the excess amount above y moles) added in the boiling step is consumed during the
process of removing/evaporating the aqueous medium.
[0071]      In some embodiments, a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV is prepared by
            a.   dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium

                                                    - 15
                i.     magnesium chloride,
               ii.     ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof, and
              iii.     an acid scavenger,
           b.      removing the aqueous medium by evaporation to afford the salt
[0072]     In some embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to
ammonium chloride is about 1 : x : y. In some embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium
chloride to ammonium chloride is from about 1:1.01y to about 1:1.1y and the molar ratio of
magnesium chloride to potassium chloride is about 1 : x. In certain embodiments, the molar
ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium chloride is from about 1 : x
1.01y to about 1 : x : 1.1y. In certain embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to
potassium chloride to ammonium chloride is from about 1 : x : 1.01y to about 1 : x : 1.05y. In
more specific embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to
ammonium chloride is about 1 : x : 1.02y.
[0073]     In certain embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to ampholytic acid
scavenger is about 1:0.001 to about 1:0.1, or about 1:0.01 to about 1:0.05. In specific
embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium
chloride to glycine is about 1 : x : y about 0.02.
[0074]     In certain embodiments, any acid scavenger suitable is utilized. In some
embodiments, the acid scavenger is ammonia. In certain embodiments, the acid scavenger is a
buffering system, e.g., a citric acid buffer system, a tartaric buffer system, or a malic acid buffer
system. In some embodiments, the acid scavenger is an ampholytic acid scavenger. In more
specific embodiments, the ampholytic acid scavenger is an ammo acid. In some embodiments,
the ampholytic acid scavenger is glycine. In certain embodiments, the acid scavenger is suitable
and is used in a suitable amount to maintain the pH of the aqueous medium at less than 7,
about 5.5 to about 7, or 5 about 6 to about 6.5
[0075]     In various embodiments, the aqueous medium is removed in any process described
herein under reduced pressure, subject to increased temperature, by evaporation, or a
combination thereof. In specific embodiments, the aqueous medium is removed by heating the
aqueous medium, to at least 50 C, at least 70 C, at least 90 C, or at least 100 C, or boiling.
In other specific embodiments, the aqueous medium is removed under reduced pressure.
[0076]     In some embodiments, a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV is prepared by:
           a.      dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium

                                                      -16
                i.        magnesium chloride,
               ii.       ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof, and
              iii.       an acid scavenger,
           b.      precipitating the salt from the aqueous medium;
           c.      filtering the precipitate; and
           d.      optionally recycling the filtrate.
[0077]     In some embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to
ammonium chloride is about 1 : x : y. In some embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium
chloride to ammonium chloride is from about 1:1.01y to about 1:1.1y and the molar ratio of
magnesium chloride to potassium chloride is about 1 : x.
[0078]     In certain embodiments, any acid scavenger suitable is utilized. In specific
embodiments, the acid scavenger is an ampholytic acid scavenger. In more specific
embodiments, the ampholytic acid scavenger is an amino acid. In some embodiments, the
ampholytic acid scavenger is glycine. In certain embodiments, the acid scavenger is a buffering
system, e.g., a citric acid buffer system, a tartaric buffer system, or a malic acid buffer system.
In certain embodiments, the acid scavenger is not ammonia or an ammonia/ammonium buffer
system. In some embodiments, the acid scavenger is ammonia (e.g., additional or excess
ammonium, such as about 2 mol % excess). In some embodiments, the acid scavenger is an
ampholytic acid scavenger. In more specific embodiments, the ampholytic acid scavenger is an
amino acid. In some embodiments, the ampholytic acid scavenger is glycine. In certain
embodiments, the acid scavenger is suitable and is used in a suitable amount to maintain the
pH of the aqueous medium at less than 7, about 5.5 to about 7, or about 6 to about 6.5.
[0079]     In some embodiments, wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium
chloride to ammonium chloride is about 1 : x : y. In some embodiments, the molar ratio of
magnesium chloride to ammonium chloride is from about 1 : 1.01 y to about 1:1.1y and the
molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride is about 1 : x. In certain embodiments,
the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to ampholytic acid scavenger is about 1:0.001 to about
1:0.1, or about 1:0.01 to about 1:0.05. In specific embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium
chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium chloride to glycine is about 1 : x : y : about 0.02. In
those embodiments, wherein the acid scavenger is ammonium chloride, the molar ratio of
magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to ammonium chloride is 1 : x : > y. In certain

                                                -17
embodiments, the acid scavenger is ammonia, in other embodiments, the acid scavenger is not
ammonia.
[0080]     In certain embodiments of any of the processes described herein, a process of
preparing a salt product of Formula IV further comprises dissolving in or wetting with the
aqueous medium at least one physiologically acceptable salt comprising either or both of M and
X In specific embodiments, the physiologically acceptable salt is MaXb9 , wherein the terms a and
b are determined based on the charge of the ions, e.g., independently selected from 1 and 2. In
further or alternative embodiments, the physiologically acceptable salt is selected from, by way
of non-limiting example MaClb9 KaXb9 (NH 4 )aXb, and the like, wherein a and b are as defined
above.
[0081]     As used herein, dissolving includes at least partially dissolving. In some embodiments,
the step of dissolving the components into the aqueous medium described herein includes
heating the aqueous medium in order to dissolve the components. In certain embodiments,
heating the aqueous medium causes the solubility of one or more of the individual components
to be increased in the aqueous medium. As used herein, heating includes heating to any
temperature above room temperature, including, e.g., above about 200 C, up to about 1000 C,
up to boiling, or to boiling. In some instances, evaporation includes sublimation and/or
lyophilisation.
[0082]     In certain embodiments wherein a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV is precipitated
from the aqueous medium, the individual components are dissolved in a heated aqueous
medium and precipitation occurs upon cooling. In some embodiments, once the individual
components are dissolved, precipitation of the salt product of any of Formulas I-IV is
accomplished by decreasing the volume of the aqueous medium. In certain embodiments, the
volume of the aqueous medium is decreased by evaporation. In some embodiments,
evaporation is achieved under reduced pressure and/or increased temperature. In some
embodiments, evaporation is achieved by increasing the temperature of the aqueous medium.
In more specific embodiments, evaporation is achieved by increasing the temperature of the
aqueous medium under reduced pressure.
[0083]     In some embodiments, a substantially non-hygroscopic salt product, e.g., a
substantially non-hygroscopic salt product of any of Formulas I-IV is prepared by mixing,
grinding and/or blending a hygroscopic salt with ammonium chloride. In certain embodiments,
the amount of ammonium chloride is mixed, ground or blended with the hygroscopic salt in
about 1 mol-% to about 99 mol-%, about 5 mol-% to about 50 mol-%, about 10 mol-% to about
30 mol-%, or about 25 mol-% of the hygroscopic salt In some embodiments, the hygroscopic

                                                      -18
salt is a natural salt. In certain embodiments, the hygroscopic salt is a natural salt In some
embodiments, the hygroscopic carnallite is a double salt of magnesium chloride and potassium
chloride wherein the potassium chloride is present in less than stoichiometric amount to
magnesium chloride (i.e., MgCl 2-xKCI-yNH 4CI-zH 20, wherein y is zero and x is less than 1). In
some embodiments, hygroscopic salt is mixed, ground and/or blended with ammonium chloride
until the sum of the amount of potassium chloride and ammonium chloride is equal to a
stoichiometric amount of magnesium chloride (i e , MgCl 2-xKCI-yNH 4 CI-zH 20, wherein y > 0 and
x+y = 1). In certain embodiments, the hygroscopic salt is top or surface hygroscopic. In further
embodiments, following mixing, grinding and/or blending, the mixture is dried.
[0084]      In some embodiments, the salts of any of Formulas I-IV for use in food products, salt
blends thereof, or particles described herein are prepared by a "bulk process," a "filtration
process," a "semi-dry filtration process," a "spray drying process" or a "drum dryer process".
[0085]      In certain embodiments, food salt products of any of Formulas I-IV are prepared by
             a.      dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium
                  i.      magnesium chloride,
                 ii.      ammonium chloride, and
                iii.      optionally an acid scavenger, and
             b.      contacting the magnesium chloride-ammonium chloride composition (e.g.,
                     solution) of (a) with solid potassium chloride
[0086]      In some embodiments, the volume of the aqueous medium is reduced (e.g., by boiling
and/or evaporation under reduced pressure and/or increased temperature) by about 30%, about
40% or about 50% prior to contacting with solid potassium chloride. In some embodiments, the
solid potassium chloride is crystalline potassium chloride. In some instances, some or all of the
aqueous medium is removed (e.g., absorbed by the solid potassium chloride) from the
composition of (a) upon addition of the solid potassium chloride. In some instances, a dry salt
blend is formed upon addition of the solid potassium chloride. In some instances, a semi-dry
salt blend is formed upon addition of solid potassium chloride. In some instances, a semi-dry
salt blend is dried using any process described herein.
[0087]      In some embodiments, an excess mol % of potassium chloride and/or sodium chloride
is utilized. In some of such embodiments, use of an excess of potassium chloride and/or sodium
chloride allows for the formation a "blend" or "salt blend" or "blended salt" of potassium chloride
and/or sodium chloride and a salt of any of Formulas I-IV.

                                                -19
[0088]     In some embodiments, a food salt blend is produced by a "spray drying process". A
solution containing at least one component of a food salt is sprayed over at least one other
component of the blend on a fluidized bed.
[0089]     In certain embodiments of a spray drying process, solid potassium chloride is in a
fluidized bed and the magnesium chloride-ammonium chloride composition (e.g., solution) is
deposited (e.g., sprayed) onto the fluidized bed (e.g., the potassium chloride particles). In some
embodiments, once the composition of (a) is deposited (e.g., sprayed) upon the solid potassium
chloride, a blended salt product of any of Formulas I-IV (depending on the products utilized)
containing at least one layer on the surface of the salt crystals is formed at the interface
between the composition of (a) and the solid potassium chloride.
[0090]     In some of such embodiments, use of an excess of potassium chloride and/or sodium
chloride allows for the formation of a coated particle comprising a salt of any of Formulas I-IV
that is coated with potassium chloride and/or sodium chloride. In certain embodiments, provided
herein is a particle comprising a potassium chloride core and a layer comprising a salt of any of
Formulas I-IV. In some embodiments, such a particle (or "blend") is prepared according to any
process described herein. In certain embodiments, such a particle is further blended with
sodium chloride. In some embodiments, provided herein is a particle comprising a potassium
chloride core, a layer of a salt of any of Formulas I-IV and a layer of sodium chloride. In specific
embodiments, such a particle comprises an inner layer of a salt of any of Formulas I-IV and an
outer layer of sodium chloride. In specific embodiments, such a particle comprises an inner
layer of a salt of any of Formulas I-IV and an outer layer of potassium chloride. In further
embodiments, such particles further comprise additional salt layers between the core and the
inner layer, between the inner layer and the outer layer, on top of the outer layer, or a
combination thereof.
[0091]     In some embodiments, the food salts described herein are prepared by end-drying or
a "bulk process." The aqueous solutions prepared by any process described herein are
evaporated to dryness. In some embodiments, evaporating to dryness allows all of the salt
components, with the exception of hydrolyzed ammonium chloride, that were dissolved in the
aqueous medium to crystallize out as a salt (e.g., a double salt, a triple salt or the like). In some
instances, analytical evaluations are not needed. In certain instances, solutions are prepared
with amount of water being about 100 ml/mol of solute(s). In certain embodiments, the amount
of hydrolyzed ammonium chloride is about the same as the excess mole% of ammonium
chloride added to the aqueous medium in any process described herein.

                                                  - 20
[0092]       In some embodiments, the food salts and/or food salt blends are prepared by a
"filtration process." In some instances, the raw-materials are weighed to a reactor and water is
added to the reactor. In certain embodiments of the filtration process, an aqueous solution
described herein is evaporated to about 70%, about 60% or about 50% of the initial volume
when a thick crystal mass is formed. In some embodiments, the thick crystal mass is cooled and
filtered, and the filtrate is recycled. In some embodiments, moist filter cake is dried and used in
the preparation of salt blends described herein.
[0093]       In some embodiments, the filtration process described above is modified to a "semi
dry filtration process." In some embodiments, an aqueous solution prepared by methods
described herein is evaporated to about 50% of the original volume, and dry potassium chloride
or a mixture of potassium chloride and sodium chloride is added to the moist crystal mass. In
certain embodiments, the additional dry potassium chloride absorbs the remainder of the water
and a dry salt product is obtained. In certain embodiments, the additional dry potassium chloride
absorbs the remainder of the water and a "semi-dry" salt product is obtained. In some
instances, a semi-dry salt product is further dried by a process described herein In some
instances, semi-dry salts are easier to handle in drying equipment. In some instances, a semi
dry filtration process yields carnallite-type salts with reduced stratification (e.g., uneven
composition or mixture). in the final salt blend
[0094]       In some embodiments, the moist filter-cake from the filtration process is treated with
dry potassium chloride or a mixture of potassium chloride and sodium chloride to absorb
moisture and afford a semi-dry salt blend.
[0095]       In some embodiments, the salts and blended salts for use in food products described
herein are prepared by a "drum dryer" process In some embodiments, a drum dryer process
composes (a) optionally moisturizing or treating with water or water vapour (i e , wetting) the
components of the food salts and/or blended food salts described herein, (b) rolling the
components of the food salts and/or blended food salts for a prolonged time (e.g., about 8
hours, about 12 hours, about 16 hours or about 24 hours or more) in a drum dryer and (c)
drying the resulting salt or salt blend using any method described herein.
[0096]       In some instances step (a) is omitted and the components of the food salts are
moisturized or wetted by the water present in one or more of the component salts (e.g., when
one or more of the component salts are salt hydrates). In some instances, a drum dryer process
achieves ion-exchange between the crystals and/or salt components. In some instances, food
salts obtained from a drum dryer process have lower CRH values. In some instances, salts
prepared by a drum dryer process are used to prepare salt blends that are used to prepare food

                                                - 21
salt solutions. Food salts used as solutions are added to food products (e.g., liquid food
products (e g soups, sauces)) that are boiled or heat-treated prior to consumption.
[0097]      In some embodiments of any process described herein, the component salts utilized
in the process are salt particles In some embodiments of any process described herein, the
component salts (e.g., magnesium chloride, potassium chloride or ammonium chloride) are of
the same particle size In some embodiments of any process described herein, the component
salts (e.g., magnesium chloride, potassium chloride or ammonium chloride) are of different
particle sizes.
[0098]      In certain embodiments of any method of preparation of a food salt or a blend of a
food salt described herein, any suitable acid scavenger suitable is utilized. In some
embodiments, the acid scavenger is ammonia. In some embodiments, ammonia is added in an
amount that maintains the pH at about 7. In those embodiments wherein the acid scavenger is
ammonia, excess ammonium chloride is optionally not added to the aqueous medium In certain
embodiments, the acid scavenger is a buffering system, e.g., a citric acid buffer system, a
tartaric buffer system, or a malic acid buffer system. In some embodiments, the acid scavenger
is an ampholytic acid scavenger. In some embodiments, the ampholytic acid scavenger is an
amino acid. In some embodiments, the ampholytic acid scavenger is glycine. In some
embodiments, the acid scavenger is a basic salt (e.g., calcium phosphate, calcium carbonate,
magnesium phosphate, magnesium carbonate or the like). In certain embodiments, the acid
scavenger is used in a suitable amount to maintain the pH of the aqueous medium at less than
7, about 5.5 to about 7, or about 6 to about 6.5. In certain embodiments, the molar ratio of
magnesium chloride to ampholytic acid scavenger is about 1:0.001 to about 1:0.1, or about
1:0.01 to about 1:0.05. In specific embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to
potassium chloride to ammonium chloride to an acid scavenger is about 1 : x : y : about 0.02.
[0099]       In various embodiments, any two or more of the component salts described herein
(e.g., magnesium chloride and potassium chloride) are utilized in any of the processes
described herein in the form of a double salt, a triple salt, or the like, such as a natural carnallite,
a modified carnallite, a hygroscopic carnallite, a poor tasting carnallite, or the like. In a specific
embodiment, magnesium chloride and potassium chloride are provided in the form of a
carnallite salt and are processed according to any of the processes described herein with
ammonium chloride.

                                                - 22
 Salt Compositions
 [0100]     In certain embodiments, provided herein is a composition comprising a salt product of
 any of Formulas I-IV. In some embodiments, the composition comprises a salt product of any of
 Formulas I-IV and at least one additional salt. In specific embodiments, the at least one
 additional salt is selected from potassium chloride, sodium chloride and combinations thereof. In
 certain embodiments, the composition comprises a salt component composing a salt product of
 any of Formulas I-IV and potassium chloride and/or sodium chloride. In specific embodiments,
 the salt component comprises, by weight, about 0 to about 99%, about 1% to about 99%, about
 50% to about 99%, about 50% to about 90%, or about 50% to about 75% sodium chloride. In
 further or alternative embodiments, the salt component comprises, by weight, 0% to about 99%,
 about 1% to about 99%, 0% to about 50%, greater than 0% to about 25%, about 1% to about
 25%, or about 5% to about 25% potassium chloride. In further or alternative embodiment, the
 salt component comprises, by weight, about 1% to about 99%, about 5% to about 50%, or
 about 25% of a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV. In further embodiments, the composition
 comprises one or more additional salts. In specific embodiments, blends provided herein
 comprise a combination of salts (w/w%) as set forth in Table 1 or Table 2.
 Table 1
    Salt         Composition I      Composition ||     Composition III     Composition IV
    NaCl              0-90%             25-75%               40-70%            45-60%
     KCI              0-90%              5-50%               10-30%            15-25%
Salt Product         0.1-90%             5-50%               10-30%            15-25%
 [0101]     In some embodiments, provided herein are particles comprising (i) a salt product of
 any of Formulas I-IV, and (ii) potassium chloride, sodium chloride, or a combination thereof. In
 certain embodiments, the particle composes a core and at least one layer. In some
 embodiments, the core composes a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV. In further
 embodiments, the at least one layer comprises potassium chloride and/or sodium chloride. In
 certain embodiments, coating the salt core with at least one layer provides an improved taste
 compared to an uncoated salt particle. In some embodiments, such particles are prepared by
 mixing particles comprising a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV with potassium chloride and/or
 sodium chloride. In specific embodiments, the potassium chloride and/or sodium chloride are in
 the form of a powder or fine particulates. In some embodiments, the particulates of the salt

                                                - 23
product are mixed with the potassium chloride and/or sodium chloride for at least 1 hour, at
least 4 hours, at least 8 hours, at least 12 hours, at least 16 hours, or at least 24 hours.
[0102]      In certain embodiments, the salt product blended with an additional salt (e.g., sodium
chloride and/or potassium chloride) as described herein, the blend has a critical relative
humidity (CRH) value of greater than about 70%, greater than about 75%, greater than about
80%, greater than 85%, greater than 90%, or greater than 95% at 300 C In specific
embodiments, the salt product blended with an additional salt (e.g., sodium chloride and/or
potassium chloride) has a CRH value greater than the CRH value for the salt product alone.
[0103]     In some embodiments, the composition comprising a salt product of any of Formulas
I-IV composes a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV in associated, dissociated or partially
dissociated form. Accordingly, in certain embodiments, provided herein is a composition
comprising a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV that has been dissolved in an aqueous
medium. In specific embodiments, the aqueous medium is or comprises potable water. In
certain embodiments, dissolved includes, e.g., completely dissolved or partially dissolved,
including at least 99% dissolved, at least 95% dissolved, or at least 50% dissolved. In some
embodiments, the aqueous composition is saturated with a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV.
In certain embodiments, the aqueous composition comprises a salt component, wherein the salt
component comprises a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV, and one or more of sodium
chloride and potassium chloride. In specific embodiments, the salt component comprises, by
weight, about 0 to about 99%, about 1% to about 99%, about 50% to about 99%, about 50% to
about 90%, or about 50% to about 75% sodium chloride. In further or alternative embodiments,
the salt component comprises, by weight, 0% to about 99%, about 1% to about 99%, 0% to
about 50%, greater than 0% to about 25%, about 1% to about 25%, or about 5% to about 25%
potassium chloride. In further or alternative embodiment, the salt component comprises, by
weight, about 1 % to about 99%, about 5% to about 50%, or about 25% of a salt product of any
of Formulas I-IV In certain embodiments, the aqueous composition is saturated with the salt
component. In some embodiments, up to about 40% (w/w), or up to about 30% (w/w) of the
aqueous composition is the salt component.
[0104]     In certain embodiments, provided herein is an aqueous composition prepared by
dissolving a salt component in an aqueous medium In specific embodiments, the aqueous
medium is or comprises potable water In certain embodiments, the aqueous composition is
prepared by dissolving a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV in an aqueous medium In further
embodiments, the aqueous composition is prepared by dissolving a salt product of any of
Formulas I-IV and one or more of sodium chloride and potassium chloride in an aqueous

                                                 - 24
medium. In specific embodiments, the salt component comprises, by weight, about 0 to about
99%, about 1% to about 99%, about 50% to about 99%, about 50% to about 90%, or about 50%
to about 75% sodium chloride. In further or alternative embodiments, the salt component
comprises, by weight, 0% to about 99%, about 1% to about 99%, 0% to about 50%, greater
than 0% to about 25%, about 1% to about 25%, or about 5% to about 25% potassium chloride.
In further or alternative embodiment, the salt component comprises, by weight, about 1% to
about 99%, about 5% to about 50%, or about 25% of a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV In
some embodiments, up to about 40% (w/w), or up to about 30% (w/w) of the aqueous
composition is the salt component. In various embodiments, the salt product of any of Formulas
I-IV, the sodium chloride and/or the potassium chloride are dissolved concurrently, or
individually. In further embodiments, one or more additional salts are also dissolved in the
aqueous medium.
[0105]     In some embodiments, provided herein is an aqueous solution comprising magnesium
cations, potassium cations and ammonium cations. In certain embodiments, the molar ratio of
magnesium cations to potassium cations to ammonium cations is about 1 : x : y, wherein the
sum of the terms x and y is about 1 and wherein y is from greater than 0 to about 1 and x is
from 0 to about 1. In further or alternative embodiments, the aqueous solution further comprises
chloride anions. In certain embodiments, the molar ratio of magnesium cations to chloride
anions is from about 1:2 to about 1:3, about 1:2:9 to about 1:3, or about 1:2.95 to about 1:3. In
certain embodiments, the molar ratio of sodium cations to chloride anions is 1:3.00.
[0106]     In further or alternative embodiments, provided herein is an aqueous solution
comprising sodium cations, potassium cations, magnesium cations, and ammonium cations. In
specific embodiments, the molar ratio of the sodium cations to potassium cations is from about
1:0.05 to about 1:0.5. In further or alternative embodiments, the molar ratio of sodium cations to
magnesium cations is from about 1:0.05 to about 1:0.1. In further or alternative embodiments,
the molar ratio of sodium cations to ammonium cations is from 1:0 to 1:0.1, or from 1:0.001 to
1:0.01. In other embodiments, the molar ratio of sodium cations to potassium cations is from
1:0.005 to 1:0.5, the molar ratio of sodium cations to magnesium cations is from 1:0.005 to
1:0.1, and wherein the molar ratio of sodium cations to ammonium cations is from 1:0 to 1:0.1.
In further or alternative embodiments, the aqueous solution further comprises chloride anions.
[0107]     In certain embodiments, an aqueous solution comprising sodium cations, potassium
cations, magnesium cations, and ammonium cations, as described herein, further comprises an
insignificant amount of one or more of sulfate ions, gold ions, silver ions, bromide ions, iodide
ions, phosphate ions, and/or sulfide ions. In specific embodiments, an insignificant amount of an

                                                  - 25
 ion is, by way of non-limiting example, less than about 100 ppm, less than about 50 ppm, less
 than about 25 ppm, or less than about 5 ppm. In certain embodiments, an insignificant amount
 of gold cations, silver cations and/or selenium cations is an amount less than about 25 ppm,
 less than about 5 ppm, less than about 1 ppm, or less than about 0 1 ppm. In further or
 alternative embodiments, an aqueous solution described herein further comprises a
 physiologically important ion including, e.g., sulfate, phosphate, silicate, nitrite, selenate, iodide,
 copper cations, cobalt cations, manganese cations, molybdenum cations and combinations
 thereof.
 [0108]      In certain embodiments, the pH of any of the aqueous compositions/solutions
 described herein is about 6 to about 7, or about 6 to about 6.8.
 [0109]      In some embodiments, the aqueous solutions described herein are prepared by
 dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium, a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV and one
 or more of potassium chloride and sodium chloride.
 [0110]      Table 2 provides illustrative examples of the compositions described herein.
 Table 2:
     Salt        Composition A       Composition B       Composition C        Composition D
    NaCl                70%                62.5%               55%                    50%
      KCI                5%                12.5%               20%                    25%
Salt Product            25%                 25%                25%                    25%
 [0111]      In certain embodiments, the salts described herein are dissolved in an aqueous
 medium. In certain embodiments, Compositions A, B and/or C are dissolved in an aqueous
 medium. Table 3 illustrates various forms of the salt product of any of Formulas I-IV that are
 utilized in the Compositions A, B and/or C of Table 1 and the concentrations (% w/w) at which
 aqueous solutions of such compositions become saturated Saturation concentrations are
 determined by dissolving salt compositions into 50 mL of water at about 1670 C adding 0.5
 grams of the salts at a time to reach the saturated solutions using a magnetic stirrer.
 Table 3:
                                         Saturation Concentration in Water (% w/w)
        Salt Product
                                  Composition A        Composition B        Composition C
       MgCl2-KCI-6H 20                  26.5%               29.5%                  32.5%

                                                    - 26
MgCl2- 3 KCI-1NH 4CI-6H 20               29.0%                31.0%                33.0%
MgCl2-MKCI-MNH 4CI.6H 20                 32.5%                35.0%                37.5%
MgCl2-%/KI0-NH 4 0.6H20                  29.0%                30.5%                32.0%
      MgCl2-NH 4-6H 20                   28.5%                31.0%                34.0%
 [0112]      In specific embodiments, any of the aqueous solutions provided herein is potable.
 [0113]      In certain embodiments, the salt products disclosed herein are blended with a
 polyhydroxy compound. In some embodiments, the polyhydroxy compound is mannitol, sorbitol,
 xylitol, or combinations thereof. In some embodiments, blending the salt products disclosed
 herein with a polyhydroxy compound (e.g. mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol) improves the stability of the
 salt products in humid conditions. In some embodiments, blending a polyhydroxy compound
 (e.g. mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol) with a salt product disclosed herein inhibits (either partially or
 fully) the ability of a water molecule to bind to a salt product In some embodiments, about 1-5
 grams of polyhydroxy compound (e.g. mannitol, sorbitol, xyhtol) is blended with about 1 mol of
 salt product. In some embodiments, about 2-4 grams of polyhydroxy compound (e.g. mannitol,
 sorbitol, xylitol) is blended with about 1 mol of salt product. In some embodiments, about 3
 grams of polyhydroxy compound (e .g. mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol) is blended with about 1 mol of
 salt product.
 [0114]      In certain embodiments, the salt aqueous solutions disclosed herein are blended with
 a polyhydroxy compound. In some embodiments, the polyhydroxy compound is mannitol,
 sorbitol, xylitol, or combinations thereof. In some embodiments, about 1-5 grams of polyhydroxy
 compound (e.g., mannitol, sorbitol, xyhtol) is blended with about 1 mol of salt product In some
 embodiments, about 2-4 grains of polyhydroxy compound (e g mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol) is
 blended with about 1 mol of salt product. In some embodiments, about 3 grams of polyhydroxy
 compound (e.g. manmtol, sorbitol, xylitol) is blended with about 1 mol of salt product.
 Uses
 [0115]       In certain embodiments, a salt product described herein is utilized as a seasoning. In
 further or alternative embodiments, a salt product described herein is a sodium salt (e.g.,
 sodium chloride) substitute. In certain embodiments, provided herein is a composition
 composing a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV and sodium chloride (e.g., a portion of the
 sodium salt is substituted with a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV).

                                                 - 27
[0116]      In some embodiments, a salt product or composition provided herein is used in food
products In certain embodiments, salt products provided herein are used as salt substitutes for
sodium salts. In further or alternative embodiments, a salt product provided herein is utilized as
a flavoring agent and/or as a preservative agent and is, optionally, utilized in food products. In
certain embodiments, a product or composition described herein is utilized as a substitute for a
flavoring agent or preservative in a food or nutrient product. In further or alternative
embodiments, the salt products or compositions described herein are utilized in a process of
preparing a food product wherein the salt products or compositions described herein at least
partially replace or substitute a sodium salt (e.g., sodium chloride).
[0117]      In specific embodiments, a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV or a composition
described herein is utilized as a flavoring agent and/or preservative in food products, including,
by way of non-limiting example, meats (e.g., cooked meat products, ground meat products,
sausages and hot dogs), snack foods (e.g., dry snacks, baked cheese snacks, potato chips,
sweet crackers, snack bars, granola bars, candy bars, breakfast bars, and salty crackers), dairy
foods (e.g., conventional cheese, cheese spread, cheeses), dried or dehydrated foods (e.g.,
dried soups and milk powder), canned foods (e.g., canned sauces, and canned soup), ready
meals, (frozen and non-frozen), frozen foods (e.g., frozen pizza, frozen television dinners), fish,
vegetables, yeast-based or products (e.g., conventional breads, breads and pastries), spices
(e.g., curry or garam masala), condiments (e.g., ketchup, mayonnaise, pasta sauce, salad
dressing, soy sauce, and barbeque sauce), soy products, beverages (e.g., sports drinks and
soda pop) and the like. In some embodiments, a salt product of any of Formulas I-IV or a
composition described herein is utilized as or in a seasoning product, a spice product, or a food
salt product.
[0118]      Thus, provided in certain embodiments herein are food products, nutrient substances,
semi-finished food products, and a processed food products that have, during the preparation
thereof, been processed, flavored or preserved with any salt or salt composition described
herein.
[0119]       In certain instances, food products comprise food acids, acidity regulators, anti
caking agents, anti-foaming agents, antioxidants, bulking agents, food coloring, color retention
agents, emulsifiers, flavors, flavor enhancers, flour treatment agents, humectants, tracer gas,
preservatives, stabilizers, sweeteners, thickeners and the like. In some embodiments, food
acids are added to make flavors "sharper" and also act as a preservative and antioxidant.
Common food acids include, by way of non-limiting example, vinegar, citnc acid, tartic acid,
malic acid, fumanc acid and lactic acid. In certain embodiments, acidity regulators are used to

                                                 - 28
change or otherwise control the acidity and alkalinity of foods. In some embodiments, anti
caking agents keep powders such as milk powder from caking or sticking. In certain
embodiments, anti-foaming agents reduce or prevent foaming in foods. In some embodiments,
anti-oxidants such as vitamin C act as preservatives by inhibiting the effects of oxygen on the
food and can be beneficial to health. In certain embodiments, bulking agents such as starch are
additives that increase the bulk of a food without affecting its nutritional value. In some
embodiments, food colorings are added to food to replace colors lost during preparation or to
improve the aesthetics of a food. In some embodiments, color retention agents are used to
preserve a food's existing color. In certain embodiments, emulsifiers allow water and oils to
remain mixed together in an emulsion, as in mayonnaise, ice cream and homogenized milk. In
some embodiments, flavors are additives that give food a particular taste or smell and may be
derived from natural ingredients or created artificially. In some embodiments, flour treatment
agents are added to flour to improve its color or its use in baking. In certain embodiments,
humectants prevent foods from drying out. In some embodiments, tracer gas allows for package
integrity testing to prevent foods from being exposed to atmosphere, thus guaranteeing shelf
life. In some embodiments, preservatives prevent or inhibit spoilage of food due to fungi,
bacteria and other microorganisms. In certain embodiments, stabilizers, thickeners and gelling
agents, like agar or pectin (used in jam for example) give foods a firmer texture. In some cases,
while stabilizers are not true emulsifiers, they help to stabilize emulsions. In some
embodiments, sweeteners are added to foods for flavouring. In certain instances, sweeteners
other than sugar are added to keep the food energy (calories) low, or because they have
beneficial effects for diabetes mellitus and tooth decay and diarrhea. In some embodiments,
thickeners are substances which, when added to the mixture, increase its viscosity without
substantially modifying its other properties. In some embodiments, a salt product or a
composition described herein is present in or is utilized in preparing a food product to reduce
the amount of or substitute one or more of a spice, a food acids, acidity regulators, anti-caking
agents, anti-foaming agents, antioxidants, bulking agents, food coloring, color retention agents,
emulsifiers, flavors, flavor enhancers, flour treatment agents, humectants, tracer gas,
preservatives, stabilizers, sweeteners, thickeners and the like used therein.
[0120]      In certain instances, frozen foods comprise spices (e.g., black pepper, chilli, white
pepper, oregano, paprika, garlic, and the like), flavors (e.g., pork flavor, beef flavor, steak flavor,
chicken flavor, onion flavor, and the like), sodium nitrite, sodium ascorbate, dextrose, sodium
phosphates, corn syrup solids, sodium stearoyl lactylate, sodium aluminum phosphate, ascorbic
acid, BHA, BHT, citric acid, and combinations thereof. In some embodiments, a salt product or a
composition described herein is present in or is utilized in preparing a frozen food product to

                                                 - 29
reduce the amount of or substitute one or more of a spice, a flavor, sodium nitrite, sodium
ascorbate, dextrose, sodium phosphate, a corn syrup solid, sodium stearoyl lactylate, sodium
aluminum phosphate, ascorbic acid, BHA, BHT, and/or citric acid used therein.
[0121]      In some instances, snack foods (e.g., dry snacks and/or baked cheese snacks)
comprise TBHQ, maltodextrin, natural flavors (e.g., cheese), disodium inosinate, disodium
guanylate, sodium casemate, spices (e.g., black pepper, chili, white pepper, oregano, paprika,
garlic, cajun pepper, and the like), and combinations thereof. In some embodiments, a salt
product or a composition described herein is present in or is utilized in preparing snack food
(e.g., dry snacks and/or baked cheese snacks) to reduce the amount of or substitute one or
more of TBHQ, maltodextrin, a natural flavor, disodium inosinate, disodium guanylate, sodium
casemate, and/or a spice used therein.
[0122]      In some instances, dairy foods compose stabilizers (e.g., carob bean, xanthan and/or
guar gums), potassium sorbate, sodium diacetate, preservatives (e.g., sorbic acid), and
combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, a salt product or composition described herein is
present in or is utilized in preparing a dairy food product to reduce the amount of or substitute
one or more of a stabilizer, potassium sorbate, sodium diacetate, and/or a preservative used
therein.
[0123]      In certain embodiments, the compositions described herein are utilized in any of the
uses described herein. In certain embodiments, aqueous compositions comprising a salt
product of any of Formulas I-IV, and one or more of sodium chloride and potassium chloride
having salt concentrations of up to about 40% (w/w), or up to about 30% (w/w), up to about 20%
(w/w), up to about 15% (w/w), up to about 10% (w/w) or up to about 5% (w/w) are utilized. In
certain embodiments, the compositions further include additives suitable for enhancing the
flavor and/or the preservative characteristics of the salts. In further or alternative embodiments,
the additional additives include any seasoning and/or food additive.
[0124]      In certain embodiments, the salts described herein are also utilized in, by way of non
limiting example, mouth-flush mixtures, antiseptics (e.g., pastes and ointments) and pastes for
reducing the formation of varicose veins. In some embodiments, the salts described herein are
utilized in protein hydrolysates, flavonoids, steroids and the like. Thus, in certain embodiments,
such products are provided for herein. In some embodiments, a salt product or composition
described herein is utilized as a salt substitute by an individual to treat hypomagnesia. In certain
embodiments, aqueous solutions of the salts and/or salt blends described gerein are used as
electrolyte replenishing mixtures in the treatment of, e.g., travellers' diarrhea, dehydration due to
cholera, gastrointestinal distress, salmonella or E coli infections and the like.

                                                  - 30
[0125]     In some embodiments, the salts described herein are utilized as a flavoring enhancing
agent. Thus, in certain embodiments, provided herein is a composition (a flavoring product)
comprising a salt (or salt blend) described herein and a flavoring agent. In specific
embodiments, such a composition is a food additive. In some embodiments, provided herein is
a method of reducing the amount of a flavoring agent necessary to achieve a desired flavor in a
food (or other item that is inserted into the mouth, such as mouth-flush mixtures, antiseptics, or
the like) by combining an effective amount of a salt or salt blend described herein with the
flavoring agent.
[0126]     Flavoring agents suitable for combination with spices (e.g., peppers, curry, herbes de
provence, five spice powder, garam masala, black pepper, chili, chili peppers, white pepper,
oregano, paprika, garlic, and the like), salts (e.g., sodium chloride), other flavors (e.g., pork
flavor, beef flavor, steak flavor, chicken flavor, onion flavor, hoisin sauce, oyster sauce), and the
like. In specific embodiments, provided herein is a reduced sodium soy sauce comprising a food
salt product of any of Formulas I-IV.
                                              EXAMPLES
[0127]     The examples described below provide non-limiting illustrative examples of the
products and processes described herein.
Example 1
[0128]     The example describes a method to produce a mixed carnallite containing 25 mol-%
of potassium chloride and 75 mol-% of ammonium chloride by filtering method 2 mol-% excess
of ammonium chloride was included into the method.
[0129]     1.0 mol (203.3 g) of magnesium chloride hexahydrate, 0.25 mol (18.64 g) of
potassium chloride and 0.765 mol (40.93 g) of ammonium chloride were dissolved to 125 ml of
water. The mixture was concentrated by boiling until 50 ml of water was left in the mixture. The
mixture was cooled, filtered by suction and the crystal mass was dried in a rotating drum in a
temperature of 500C.
[0130]     Yield: 236 g (90%) of white crystalline product with pleasant taste. The product is
virtually unhygroscopic.
Example 2
[0131]     The example describes a method to produce ammonium carnallite with total
evaporation to dryness including 2 mol-% of excess ammonium chloride.
[0132]     1.02 mol (54.6 g) of ammonium chloride and 1.0 mol (203.3 g) of magnesium chloride
hexahydrate were added to 120 ml of water. The mixture was heated to boiling with stirring to

                                                 - 31
evaporate most of the water. The formed thick moist crystal mass was mixed with spatula and
heated gently until dry product was formed.
[0133]     Yield: 256 g (theror.) of white salt having a pleasant, slightly sour taste The product is
virtually unhygroscopic.
Example 3
[0134]     The example describes a method to produce potassium carnallite by total evaporation
of water in the presence of glycine (1 mol-%) and ammonium chloride (2 mol-%).
[0135]     1.0 mol (203.3 g) of magnesium chloride hexahydrate and 1.0 mol (74.55 g) of
potassium chloride were added to 125 ml of water. Glycine (0.75 g) and ammonium chloride
(1.07 g) were added and the mixture was treated as described in example 2. Both of the
buffering agents were mainly exhausted in the final stages of the drying.
[0136]     Yield: 278 g (theor.) of white salt having a note of sea water. The product is slightly
hygroscopic m a humidity over 70% RH but is stabilized when mixed with alkali chlorides.
Example 4
[0137]     The example described a method to produce a mixed carnallite containing 25 mol-%
of ammonium chloride and 75 mol-% of potassium chloride by filtering method 2 mol-% excess
of ammonium chloride was present in the mixture.
[0138]     1.0 mol (203 3 g) of magnesium chloride hexahydrate, 0.75 mol (55.91 g) of
potassium chloride and 0.255 mol (13.65 g) of ammonium chloride were added to 125 ml of
water. The excess of water was evaporated by boiling to a point having 40 ml of water left in
the mixture. The mixture was cooled, filtered by suction and dried in a rotating drum (500C).
[0139]     Yield: 231 g (85%) of white, virtually unhygroscopic material with small crystal size.
The taste is pleasing.
Example 5
[0140]     The example describes a method to produce a mixed carnallite containing 50 mol-%
of potassium chloride and 50 mol-% of ammonium chloride by total evaporation to dryness.
Excess of ammonium chloride (2 mol-%) is present in the mixture.
[0141]     1.0 mol (203.3 g) of magnesium chloride, 0.5 mol (37.28 g) of potassium chloride and
0.51 mol (27.29 g) of ammonium chloride were dissolved to 125 ml of water. The mixture was
treated as described in the example 2 to produce a freely flowing salt.
[0142]     Yield: 224 g (84%) of white, virtually unhygroscopic material with small crystal size
and a pleasant salty taste.

                                                  - 32
[0143]     Salt products composing different amounts of potassium and ammonium are prepared
in similar manners by adjusting the mol-% of ammonium chloride and mol-% of potassium
chloride dissolved into water.
Example 6
[0144]     Depending on the use, different ratios of potassium to ammonium are utilized in salt
products and compositions described herein. Salt products and compositions described herein,
including e.g., those of Tables 1-3, are deposited in incrementally increasing amounts on a food
product (e.g. from 0.01 mg of salt product per gram of food product). The food products are then
taste by a sample of healthy volunteers and the taste is rated on a scale of 1-10. The food
products are then stored and the preservative characteristic of the salt product or composition is
rated on a scale of 1-10.
[0145]     In certain instances, wherein the salt products or compositions described herein are
utilized as a preservative, the best salt products or compositions described herein are
determined based on potassium to ammonium ratios produce the best taste and best
preservative characteristic In certain instances, wherein the salt product or compositions
described herein are utilized as a flavoring agent alone, only the taste of the salt need be
considered.
Example 7
[0146]     Two pieces of 10 g were cut from a "market-fresh" salmon, both pieces having a
remarkable area of the typical silver-colored skin. Both of the pieces were salted, the first with
0.5 g of table salt and the other with 0.5 g of the salt product of Example 3. Both of the samples
were stored in a refrigerate room in a temperature of 120 C and the chemiluminence of the
salmon skin were observed visually from time to time. It was found that the luminence of the
sample salted with table salt disappeared after storage for 48 hours. The luminence of the
salted sample continued for an additional 55 hours before fading. Thus, the salt product of
Example 2 is illustrated to have an ability to prevent the formation of formic acid in the
deterioration of the fish flesh. Similar effects have been found in ham and other meat products.
Example 8
[0147]     Salt products and compositions described herein, including e.g., those of Tables 1-3,
are formulated in combination with a flavoring agent (e.g., a salt or a spice) in incrementally
increasing weight % amounts. Each of the combinations are then tasted by a sample of healthy
volunteers in increasing amounts (e.g., from 1 mg of combination). The combinations are then
tasted by a sample of healthy volunteers and the taste is rated on a scale of 1-10.

                                                 - 33
[0148]     Additionally, or alternatively, each of the combinations are placed on a food product in
increasing amounts (e.g., from 0.01 mg of salt product per gram of food product). The food
products are then tasted by a sample of healthy volunteers and the taste is rated on a scale of
1-10.
Example 9
[0149]     The example describes a method to produce a mixed carnallite containing 25 mol-%
of potassium chloride and 75 mol-% of ammonium chloride by filtering method 2 mol-% excess
of ammonium chloride is included into the method.
[0150]     1.0 mol (203.3 g) of magnesium chloride hexahydrate, 0.25 mol (18.64 g) of
potassium chloride and 0.765 mol (40.93 g) of ammonium chloride are dissolved to 125 ml of
water. The mixture is concentrated by boiling until 50 ml of water was left in the mixture. The
mixture is heated to boiling with stirring to evaporate most of the water. The formed thick moist
crystal mass is agitated and heated gently until dry product is formed.
Example 10
[0151]     The example describes a method to produce a mixed carnallite containing 25 mol-%
of potassium chloride and 75 mol-% of ammonium chloride by filtering method 2 mol-% excess
of ammonium chloride is included into the method.
[0152]     1.0 mol (203.3 g) of magnesium chloride hexahydrate, 0.25 mol (18.64 g) of
potassium chloride and 0.765 mol (40.93 g) of ammonium chloride are dissolved to 125 ml of
water. The mixture was concentrated by boiling until 50 ml of water was left in the mixture. The
mixture was cooled, filtered by suction and the crystal mass was dried in a rotating drum in a
temperature of 500C.
Example 11
[0153]     X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) patterns were obtained for salts described herein
Figure 1 illustrates the XRD pattern for Sample 1, which is an MgCl 2 xNH 4 CI- 6H 20 sample
prepared by concentration in a rotary evaporator and filtration (85% yield); the XRD pattern for
Sample 2, which is an MgCl 2    x 0.75 NH4 CI x 0.25 KCI -6H20 sample by the total evaporation of
solvent (~100% yield); and a stick pattern for reference NH4 MgCl 3. Similarly, XRD patterns of
salt products provided herein according to Formula I, wherein x is about 0.25, y is about 0.75, z
is about 6, and g is about 3, were compared to and found to be distinct from KMgCl3-6H 20
(Figure 2), MgCl 2 (Figure 3), NHCl 4 , (Figure 4), KCI (Figure 5) and NH4 MgCl3- 6H 2 0 (Figure
6). In some embodiments, provided herein is a sample comprising: (1) one or more peak having
a 20 value that is approximately equal to that of a MgCl 2 x 0.75 NH4 CI x 0.25 KCI -6H 20 pattern

                                                   - 34
of any of Figures 1-5; (2) substantially free of one or more peak having a 26 value that is
approximately equal to that found in the stick figures (in any of Figures 1-6) of any of
KMgCl3-6H 20, MgCl 2 , NHCl 4 , KCl, NH4 MgCl3-6H 2 0 or a combination thereof; (3) a peak
intensity ratio of a first peak having a first 20 to a second peak having a second 26 that is
different from a peak intensity ratio of any one or more of KMgCl3-6H 20, MgCl 2 , NHCl 4, KCl,
NH4 MgCI 3 -6H20 having a pair of peaks with similar or identical 2E values (e.g., as set forth in
the stick figures of any of Figures 1-6); or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the
relative intensities of one or more peaks when comparing a salt provided herein to one or more
of KMgCl 3 -6H20, MgCl 2 , NHCl 4, KCl, NH 4 MgCl3-6H 2 0 are different.
While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein,
it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of
example only. Numerous variations, changes, and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in
the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to
the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.
It is intended that the following claims define the scope of the invention and that methods and
structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered thereby.

                                                  - 35
CLAIMS:
1.        A substantially non-hygroscopic salt for use in a food product having the formula:
                            MgKx(NH 4)yClg-zH 20                Formula Ill
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1, wherein 0 <x <1, wherein 0 < y <1 , wherein g is about 3,
wherein z is about 4-6, and wherein the salt for use in a food product is substantially non
hygroscopic and substantially free of hydrogen chloride.
2.        A substantially non-hygroscopic salt for use in a food product having the formula:
                            MgKx(NH 4)yClg-zH 20                Formula Ill
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1, wherein x is about 0.05 to about 0.45, wherein y is about
0.55 to about 0.95, wherein g is about 3, wherein z is about 4-6, and wherein the salt for use in
a food product is substantially non-hygroscopic and substantially free of hydrogen chloride.
3.        The salt for use in a food product of claim 1 or 2, wherein z is 6.
4.        The salt for use in a food product of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the salt is prepared by
          a)   dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium (i) magnesium chloride, and (ii)
               ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof;
          b) boiling the aqueous medium; and
          c)   removing the aqueous medium by evaporation to afford the salt for use in a food
               product; wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to
               ammonium chloride is 1 : x : y.
5.        The salt for use in a food product of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the salt is prepared
by:
          a)    dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium (i) magnesium chloride, (ii)
                ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof, and (iii) an
                acid scavenger;
          b)    boiling the aqueous medium;
          c)    precipitating the salt for use in a food product from the aqueous medium;
          d)    filtering the precipitated salt; and
          e)    optionally recycling the filtrate; wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to
                potassium chloride to ammonium chloride is 1 : x : y.

                                                - 36
6.         The salt for use in a food product of claim 5 wherein the salt is prepared by a filtration
process, a semi-dry filtration process, a spray drying process, a bulk process or a drum dryer
process.
7.         The salt for use in a food product of claim 4 or claim 5, wherein step (b) further
comprises dissolving in the aqueous medium an additional amount of about 1-10 mol% of
ammonium chloride.
8.         The salt for use in a food product of claim 4 or claim 5, wherein step (b) further
comprises dissolving in the aqueous medium an additional amount of about 2 mol% of
ammonium chloride.
9.         The salt for use in a food product of any of claims 1 -8, wherein x is about 0.25 and y
is about 0.75.
10.        A particle comprising a core and at least one layer, wherein the core comprises a salt
of any of claims 1-9, and wherein at least one layer of the particle comprises sodium chloride,
potassium chloride, or a combination thereof.
11.        A composition comprising (i) a salt for use in a food product of any of claims 1-9 and
(ii) sodium chloride, potassium chloride, or a combination thereof.
12.        A composition comprising (i) a salt for use in a food product of any of claims 1-9 and
(ii) an aqueous medium, wherein the salt is dissolved and dissociated in the aqueous medium.
13.        An aqueous solution prepared by dissolving a salt for use in a food product of any of
claims 1-9 in potable water.
14.        The aqueous solution of claim 13, comprising magnesium cations, potassium cations
and ammonium cations in a molar ratio of 1 : x : y.
15.        The aqueous solution of claim 14, wherein the aqueous solution is prepared by further
dissolving sodium chloride and potassium chloride in the aqueous medium.
16.        The aqueous solution of claim 15, comprising sodium cations, potassium cations,
magnesium cations, and ammonium cations, wherein the molar ratio of sodium cations to
potassium cations is from 1:0.005 to 1:0.5, the molar ratio of sodium cations to magnesium
cations is from 1:0.005 to 1:0.1, and wherein the molar ratio of sodium cations to ammonium
cations is from 1:0 to 1:0.1.
17.        A nutrient substance, a semi-finished food product, a flavoring product, a processed
food product that has, during the preparation thereof, been processed or preserved with a salt

                                                 - 37
for use in a food product of any of claims 1-9, a composition of either of claims 11-12, or a
solution of any of claims 13-16.
18.        The nutrient substance, semi-finished food product, or processed food product of
claim 15, wherein the processed food product is selected from meats, fish, vegetables, snack
foods, soups, sauces, dairy products, and yeast based products.
19.        A method of decreasing the sodium content of a food product by at least partially
substituting a sodium containing salt in the food product with a salt for use in a food product of
any of claims 1-9, a composition of either of claims 11-12, or a solution of any of claims 13-16.
20.        The method of claim 19, wherein the food product does not have a substantially
decreased taste or shelf-life.
21.        A method of preparing a substantially non-hygroscopic salt for use in a food product
having the formula:
                           MgKx(NH 4)yClg-zH 20                Formula Ill
comprising:
           a)   dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium (i) magnesium chloride, and (ii)
                ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof; and
           b)   removing the aqueous medium by evaporation to afford the salt for use in a food
                product;
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1 wherein 0 <x < 1 , wherein 0 < y <1 , wherein g is about
3, wherein z is about 4-6, and wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium
chloride to ammonium chloride is about 1 : x : y.
22.        The method of claim 21 wherein the sum of x and y is about 1 , wherein x is about
0.05 to about 0.45, wherein y is about 0.5 to about 0.95, wherein g is about 3, wherein z is
about 4-6, and wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to
ammonium chloride is 1 : x : y.
23.        The method of claim 21 or claim 22, further comprising dissolving in or wetting with
the aqueous medium an additional about 1-10 mol% of ammonium chloride.
24.        The method of claim 21 or claim 22, further comprising dissolving in or wetting with
the aqueous medium an additional about 2 mol% of ammonium chloride.
25.        A method of preparing a substantially non-hygroscopic salt for use in a food product
having the formula:

                                                 - 38
                            MgKx(NH 4)yCIg-zH 20               Formula III
comprising:
           a)  dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium (i) magnesium chloride, (ii)
               ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof, and (iii) an acid
               scavenger; and
           b)   removing the aqueous medium by evaporation to afford the salt for use in a food
               product;
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1 , wherein 0 <x < 1 , wherein 0 < y <1 , wherein g is about
3, wherein z is about 4-6, and wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium
chloride to ammonium chloride is 1 : x : y.
26.        The method of claim 25 wherein the sum of x and y is about 1 , wherein x is about
0.05 to about 0.45, wherein y is about 0.5 to about 0.95, wherein g is about 3, wherein z is
about 4-6, and wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to
ammonium chloride is about 1 : x : y.
27.        The method of any of claims 21 to 26 wherein removing the aqueous medium by
evaporation comprises boiling the aqueous medium.
28.        A method of preparing a salt for use in a food product having the formula:
                                  MgKx(NH 4)yClg-zH 20 Formula Ill
comprising:
           a)  dissolving in or wetting with an aqueous medium (i) magnesium chloride, (ii)
               ammonium chloride, potassium chloride or a combination thereof, and (iii) an acid
               scavenger;
           b) precipitating the salt for use in a food product from the aqueous medium;
           c)  filtering the precipitate; and
           d) optionally recycling the filtrate;
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1 , wherein 0 <x < 1 , wherein 0 < y <1, wherein g is about
3, wherein z is about 4-6, and wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium
chloride to ammonium chloride is 1 : x : y.
29.        The method of claim 28 wherein the sum of x and y is about 1 , wherein x is about
0.05 to about 0.45, wherein y is about 0.5 to about 0.95, wherein g is about 3, wherein z is

                                                - 39
about 4-6, and wherein the molar ratio of magnesium chloride to potassium chloride to
ammonium chloride is 1 : x : y.
30.        The method of claim 28 or 29 wherein the salt is prepared by a filtration process, a
semi-dry filtration process, a spray drying process, a bulk process or a drum dryer process.
31.        A substantially non-hygroscopic salt for use in a food product having the formula:
                                   MgKx(NH 4)yClg-zH 20 Formula Ill
wherein the sum of x and y is about 1 , wherein 0 < x < 1 , wherein 0 < y <1 , wherein g is about
3, wherein z is about 4-6; wherein less than about 5% of the K ions in the salt for use in a food
product are optionally substituted with a physiologically acceptable cation; wherein less than
about 5% of the NH4 ions in the salt for use in a food product are optionally substituted with a
physiologically acceptable cation; wherein less than about 5% of the Cl ions in the salt for use in
a food product are optionally substituted with a physiologically acceptable anion, and wherein
the salt for use in a food product is substantially non-hygroscopic.
32.        The salt of claim 31 wherein the sum of x and y is about 1, wherein x is about 0.05 to
about 0.45, wherein y is about 0.5 to about 0.95, wherein g is about 3, and wherein z is about 4
6.
33.        The salt for use in a food product of claim 31 or 32, wherein the physiologically
acceptable cation is selected from calcium, zinc, selenium, copper, cobalt, chromium,
manganese, molybdenum and combinations thereof.
34.        The salt for use in a food product of claim 31 or 32, wherein the physiologically
acceptable anion is selected from fluoride, iodide, phosphate, silicate, selenate, sulfate, nitrite
and combinations thereof.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/6

