                                         ABSTRACT
        The disclosure concerns a method for cancer treatment by in vivo priming and
activation of natural killer cells for achieving tumor cell lysis. The method includes
introducing into a patient a priming tumor cell preparation (PTCP) derived from a first tumor
cell line, which is irradiated to inactivate the first tumor cells or a membrane preparation
thereof, the first tumor cells having known priming ligands on the membrane surface thereof.
The patient's rest NK cells are contacted by the PTCP in vivo, resulting in primed NK cells,
which are characterized by upregulation of CD69, shedding of CD16, or a combination of
CD69+ and CD16-. These primed NK cells then contact second tumor cells, the cancer, and
are configured to lyse and kill the second tumor cells.

         Obtaining pharmaceutical grade CTV-1 cells
                                             to knock-in
     O ptionally modifying the CTV-1 cells
     and/or   Knock-out HLA class Ior class II antigens
        using known genetic modification techniques
                  lnactivating the CTV-1 cells
         Introducing the inactivated CTV-1 cells into
                                V
                             a patient
contacting rNK cells with the inactivated CTV-1 cells in vivo
           to form non-naturally occuring pNK cells
            presenting the pNK cells to tumor cells
                        for tumor cell lysis
                              FIG.1

            Australia Patent Application
                          for
"IN VIVO PRIMING OF NATURAL KILLER CELLS"
                Inventors: RaymondJ. Tesi
                             DavidMoss
     Applicant /Assignee:    Immune Ventures, LLC
                           1

                    IN VIVO PRIMING OF NATURAL KILLER CELLS
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]           This invention relates to methods for cancer treatment; and more particularly,
in vivo priming of natural killer cells for the treatment of cancer and other diseases.
                                      BACKGROUND ART
[0002]           A natural killer (NK) cell is a lymphocyte able to bind to certain tumor cells
and virus-infected cells without the stimulation of antigens, and kill them by the insertion of
granules containing perforin.
[0003]           Many cancers develop and proliferate in the body because NK cells are unable
to first, recognize, and second, engage them for killing.       The first is a failure of immune
surveillance. The latter is due changes on the tumor that allow it to evade NK cell killing.
[0004]           US 8,257,970, issued Sep. 4, 2012, describes a method for activating natural
killer cells by tumor cell preparation in vitro; the contents of which are hereby incorporated
by reference. While the embodiments of the '970 patent seem to be promising, there are
many problems associated with applying the technology in a commercial platform, such as,
inter alia, scalability and broad application to unique patients and diseases.
[0005]           Indeed, the problem of finding effective methods for treating cancer is long
felt and largely unresolved.
[0006]           There is a continued need for novel methods to stimulate an immune response
for the purpose of treating cancer and other diseases.
                                  SUMMARY OF INVENTION
Technical Problem
[0007]           The problem with many cancers is that the cancer cells downregulate certain
signals (surface proteins, etc.) on the membrane surface, effectively evading immune
surveillance and NK cell killing. Accordingly, the cancer is able to evade NK cell killing and
proliferate within the affected patient.
Solution to Problem
                                                  2

[0008]           A method is disclosed for treating various cancers in human and animal
patients. Herein described is a strategy and method for "priming" a patient's own NK cells in
vivo such that they are exposed to those signals which are often downregulated on the tumor
cell, then, upon contacting the tumor cell subsequent to the priming, the NK cells are capable
of activation by contact with the remaining signals which are not down regulated on the
tumor cell surface, thereby promoting tumor cell lysis. In sum, the method achieves
"priming" of Natural Killer (NK) cells in vivo, wherein resting NK (rNK) cells become
primed NK (pNK) cells upon contact with a priming tumor cell preparation (PTCP). The
primed NK cells are capable of complete activation and tumor cell lysis upon contacting the
tumor cells and remaining signals.
Advantageous Effects of Invention
[0009]           The priming tumor cell preparation is a biological preparation of cells,
proteins and/or ligands which effectively provide a first signal to resting NK cells. The first
signal is not specific to each cancer variant, thus upon first "priming" the NK cell by
exposing to the PTCP, the NK cell can then locate and effectuate lysing of a plurality of
cancer cell variants. Accordingly, the proposed method provides a strategy for treating many
cancer types and is not limited to a single variant.
[0010]           Additionally, the methods described herein are not autologous, and therefore
are capable of large commercial scale. According to the invention, one PTCP can be scaled
and produced, which can then be used to treat a number of patients with different cancer
variants and other infectious diseases.
[0011]           Other advantages will be apparent to one having skill in the art upon a full
review of the instant description and drawings.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0012]           FIG. 1 illustrates a method for in vivo priming of NK cells in accordance with
an illustrated embodiment.
[0013]           FIG.2A shows only the addition of CTV1 cells, a tumor cell line that
expresses Signal 1 and can prime NK cells can decrease the growth of RAJI cells, a NK
resistant cell line, in a human PBMC culture.
                                                  3

[0014]           FIG.2B shows that growth of RAJI cells, a NK resistant tumor line, when
added to a population of human PBMC is significantly decreased if CTV1 cells are added to
the culture.
[0015]           FIG.3 shows that the decrease in growth of RAJI cells in the mixed culture is
related to specific lysis RAJI by NK cells primed by the CTV1.
                               DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0016]           Tumor killing using natural killer (NK) cells is a two-step process that
involves priming and triggering; i.e. the NK cell must be primed and triggered to cause
killing of a tumor cell.      Priming and triggering are each controlled by a different set of
receptors and ligands on the NK cell and the tumor cell, respectively. The majority of
naturally occurring human cancers are resistant to NK killing because they lack the priming
ligands on their cell surface. That is, the triggering ligands remain on the tumor cell surface,
but the NK cell does not cause tumor cell death because it does not become primed (i.e., there
are no priming ligands on the tumor cell surface).          Due to the lack of priming ligands
(hereinafter "Signal 1") on the tumor cell surface, at least with respect to the vast majority of
human cancers, NK cells do not and cannot participate in the control of cancer growth in
patients. Herein is disclosed a strategy to artificially "prime" NK cells so they will be capable
of killing a tumor cell (lysis or apoptosis), that is, when the primed NK cells come in contact
with a triggering signal (hereinafter "Signal 2") that is present on the surface of the tumor
cell. The technologies disclosed herein will increase the role human NK cells play in the
control of human cancer - both prevention and treatment.
[0017]           The role of NK cells in the control of cancer was first described using
cytokines to prime NK cells. The discovery of interleukin-2 (IL-2) and its role in NK-cell
activation in the 1980's led to considerable interest in the use of lymphokine-activated killer
(LAK) cells in tumor immunotherapy. The results of these trials were, however, largely
disappointing. In a study investigating the effect of administering autologous LAK cells to
patients along with IL-2, fewer than 20% of patients responded (Rosenburg et al.).
Subsequent studies have shown that IL-2 significantly expands the number of circulating NK
cells in vivo, but the cells are not maximally cytotoxic (Miller et al.).
[0018]           More recently, a cytokine free priming technique has been developed that uses
carefully selected tumor cells that have retained the priming ligands, but lack the triggering
                                                  4

ligands (North et al.). When resting NK cells (rNK cells are CD69-) are placed with priming
tumor cells (PTC), for example, CTV-1 cells, NK cells become primed as defined by the
activated phenotype (pNK cells are CD69+) and by shedding CD16.              pNK cells will kill
tumor cells that have triggering ligands on their cell surface. This is believed to be true, and
in some instances, confirmed, in many human tumor types, including but not limited to:
myeloid leukemia, multiple myeloma, chronic myeloid leukemia, lymphoma, breast, ovary,
lung, renal, prostate and other GI and GYN malignancies.          That is, in a vast majority of
patients, their tumors evade NK cell killing by eliminating priming ligands on their cell
surface, but are still susceptible to killing by primed NK cells because they retain trigger
ligands on their cell surface.
[0019]            Tumors are either resistant to NK cell killing (NK resistant) or are killed by
NK cells (NK sensitive). The majority of tumors and tumor cell lines are NK resistant. Most
NK resistant tumors and cell lines do not have priming ligands on their cell surface yet do
express triggering ligands. This means the NK cell does not receive one of the two signals
needed for it to kill the tumor cell.    Because NK resistant tumors still have the triggering
ligands on their cell surface, they will be killed by NK cells that have received a priming
signal; as evidenced by the susceptibility of these NK-resistant lines to NK cells primed by
IL-2 which provides a priming signal. IL-2 is a highly potent cytokine which has proved
difficult to use clinically because the high dose needed to induce systemic NK cell priming
also causes sever and often fatal side effects. Thus, it has been discovered and is indeed a
strategy as disclosed herein, to artificially provide the priming signal in vivo to convert rNK
cells to pNK cells that will be able to interact and kill tumor cells without administration of
toxic levels of cytokines.
[0020]           A resting NK cell that has received the priming signal (Signal 1) as part of the
therapy is called a Tumor Primed NK cell (TpNK) or alternatively a "pNK". TpNK-sensitive
tumors are the majority of hematologic and solid tumors. However, there are TpNK resistant
cancers; for example, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). TpNK resistant tumors will not
be eligible for treatment by this in vivo priming therapeutic strategy.
[0021]           The rare cancer and cancer cell lines that retain priming ligands (Signal 1) on
their cells surface yet lack the triggering signals (Signal 2) are herein referred to as "NK
priming tumor cells (PTC)". PTC's evade NK cell killing by downregulating triggering
ligands (S2) from their cell surface - they are the opposite of the vast majority of cancers that
                                                 5

evade NK cell killing by eliminating priming ligands (Signal 1) on their cell surface. PTC are
a small, but identifiable subset of tumor cells that have some combination of at least three
priming ligands expressed on their cell surface. The three priming ligands may include, for
example and not limitation: (i) a first ligand selected from the group consisting of: ICAM-1
and ICAM-3; (ii) a second ligand selected from the group consisting of: CD15, CD48, CD58,
and CD59; and (iii) a third ligand selected from the group consisting of: MICA, MICB,
ULBP1, ULBP2, ULBP3, PVR, Rae-I and H-60.
[0022]           CTV-1 cells, a cell line derived from a patient with acute lymphoblastic
leukemia (DSMZ No. ACC 40, www.dsmz.de), expressing priming ligands which cause
ligation of NK receptors CD2, LFA-1, NKp46, 2B4 and DNAM-1 expressed on their surface.
It has been discovered that tumor cells expressing ligands of NKp46, 2B4 and DNAM on
their cell surface can be used to prime resting human NK cells. It is further contemplated that
other combinations of CD2, LFA-1, NKp46, 2B4 and DNAM ligands can be used to prime
human NK cells.
[0023]           Priming of resting NK cells can occur in vitro and/or in vivo. In vitro priming,
although effective, is logistically complex, costly and limiting as a therapy for cancer. In this
document, in vivo priming of NK cells is disclosed, where the patient's resting NK cells are
primed without leaving the circulation.
[0024]           Some cancers, which have down regulated the triggering ligand (Signal 2)
from their cell surface will be resistant to TpNKs. When a TpNK comes in contact with a
TpNK resistant tumor (TRT), only priming signal (Signal 1) is provided and, without
triggering signal (Signal 2), the TpNK cell is not triggered and the tumor is not killed (lysed).
TRT's will require a different therapeutic strategy.
PTCPfor in vivo priming of NK cells
[0025]           A priming tumor cell preparation (PTCP) is introduced to a patient, wherein
the PTCP is configured to change NK cells from a rest state, rNK cells (CD69-), to a primed
state, pNK cells in vivo.     Primed NK (pNK) cells are generally characterized as CD69+,
CD16-, or a combination of CD69+ and CD16-. The PTCP can be delivered by intravenous,
subcutaneous, intramuscular, intraperitoneal, intrathecal infusion or as an intra-nasal, trans
bronchial or conjunctival instillation. The PTCP can be a cell or portion thereof including a
lysate, a fraction of the lysate, exosomes or microvesicles. The cell or portion thereof can be
                                                6

from a cell line that contains at least three of the priming ligands capable of causing ligation
of the NK cell receptors CD2, LFA-1, NKp46, 2B4 and DNAM. The cells or portion thereof
can be living, irradiated, frozen, lyophilized, fixed, chemically altered or genetically altered,
or otherwise provided. One embodiment includes direct injection of an irradiated or
otherwise inactivated tumor cell line with three or more of the priming ligands described
above. Another embodiment is injection of a tumor cell lysate, or portion thereof, to convert
rNK cells to pNK cells. The PTCP can be a manmade product including antibodies
(monoclonal, bi and tri-specific antibodies and minibodies), proteins, aptamers, small
molecules or combinations that will present priming ligands to rNK cells and convert them to
pNK cells. One embodiment is the injection of two bispecific antibodies that bind the targets
of the priming ligands. Another embodiment is to inject a tri-specific antibody that binds the
targets of the priming ligands. The PTCP can be a combination product of cells and manmade
products. For instance, a man-made sphere can be coated with a lysate of a tumor cell line to
produce a PTCP. The PTCP can be a combination of man-made products. In one
embodiment, a nanosphere of lipids, metals, polymers or combinations, is coated with
antibodies the bind the targets of the priming ligands. In another embodiment, a nanosphere
of lipids, silanes, polymers or combinations, is coated with synthetic priming ligands,
aptamers or proteins the bind the targets of the priming ligands.
[0026]          The priming tumor cell preparation (PTCP) can be given as a single therapy, a
continuous therapy or a combination of single and continuous treatments. The PTCP can be
given once a day, or every day. The PTCP can be used once or multiple times. The PTCP
can be given as part of combination therapy with other drug, radiation and surgical therapies.
[0027]          In some embodiments, where the PTCP is a whole cell, several unique
characteristics can be designed into the PTCP using genetic engineering techniques such as,
but not limited to, gene editing DNA nuclease based techniques including, inter alia, zinc
fingers, CRISPR or TALEN, viral vector based gene editing with rAAV or other viral vectors
and other genetic engineering methods. Because whole cell PTCP stimulates the immune
response of the patient, genetic modification of the whole cell based PTCP to decrease the
immune response of the patient to the allogeneic cell can be performed. In one embodiment,
the expression of HLA Class I antigens from the cell surface is eliminated.          In another
embodiment, HLA Class I and HLA Class II antigens are eliminated from the surface of the
cell. In another embodiment, there is an increase in surface protein expression that protects
                                                 7

the cell from immunologic attack such as increase HLA E expression and/or increased HLA
G expression. These genetic modifications of the PTCP will increase the utility of a whole
cell based PTCP by          decreasing   and/or eliminating   the   need to use concomitant
immunosuppression in the patient and facilitate multiple treatments of the patient using the
cell based PTCP.
[0028]           In embodiments where the PTCP is a living whole cell, there is potential for
the cell to proliferate or engraft (take up semi-permanent or permanent residence in the
patient). Where proliferation or engraftment is not desired, techniques to prevent live cell
proliferation can be designed into the treatment protocol or into the cell. In one embodiment,
the living whole cell PTCP is irradiated before infusion into the patient so the cells do not
proliferate. Irradiation will also prevent engraftment of the live, whole cell PTCP. In another
embodiment, the cells are treated with a cytotoxic agent before infusion into or exposure to
the patient. In another embodiment, the cells are lyophilized before infusion into the patient.
Lyophilization prevents further cell division.        In another embodiment, the cells are
genetically modified to include a suicide gene such as, but not limited to, thymidine kinase.
In a live whole cell PTCP, genetically engineered to include a suicide gene, the drug that
triggers the suicide gene to kill the living whole cell PTCP is given to the patient when you
want to eliminate the NK cell priming effects of the live whole cell PTCP in the patient. For
example, in the case of the thymidine kinase suicide gene, the drug that triggers the suicide of
the living whole cell PTCP that has been genetically engineered is ganciclovir. The suicide
inducing drug can be administered hours, days, weeks, months or never, depending on the
desired therapeutic effect, the disease burden, the patient's health and other factors.     For
instance, in a patient with minimal residual disease, a live whole cell PTCP may be wanted
for a short course of therapy, for example once a month for one, two or three months.. For
patients with a greater disease burden such as metastasis to the lung or brain, a more
prolonged NK priming therapy may be desired to control the disease, for example weekly,
biweekly or monthly treatment for prolonged periods of time, for example 6, 12 or 18
months. For patients with disease that is controlled but not eradicated, it may be necessary to
give long-term chronic therapy on a weekly, bi-weekly, monthly, bi-monthly, quarterly, semi
annually or annual fashion to control the disease and prolong survival.         For any of the
previous scenarios, the dose of the PTCP (otherwise termed "priming tumor cell preparation
(PTCP)" and the interval between treatment may be different based on the type of tumor, the
severity of the disease or the type of response. For instance, the therapy may be given a one
                                                8

dose monthly for 3 months, then as a maintenance therapy at half the dose every two months
for the life of the patient.
[0029]           The PTCP produces the pNK cell, a cell that is non-naturally occurring, and
not seen in humans or animals. The NK cell merely exists as either a resting NK cell, unable
to kill cancer or virally infected cells, without ligation of either Signal 1 or Signal 2, or is an
activated NK cell, that can kill cancer or virally infected cells after ligation of both Signal 1
and Signal 2. This invention produces an unnatural primed pNK cell that has ligation on only
Signal 1 receptors. With ligation of Sl, the pNK has a distinct biology from resting and
activated NK cells that can be measured with a combination of one or more sophisticated
assays    including, but not limited to, genomic, proteomic,           lipidomic, metabolomics,
secretomic, phenotypic and functional assays.
[0030]           Thus, in a general embodiment, a method is disclosed for priming NK cells
which comprises the step of contacting the NK cells in vivo with a priming tumor cell
preparation (PTCP).
[0031]           In one embodiment, the PTCP comprises irradiated or otherwise inactivated
intact tumor cells. The intact tumor cells may comprise on a surface thereof at least one
priming ligand for causing ligation of the receptors selected from the group consisting of:
CD2, LFA-1, NKp46, 2B4 and DNAM-1.
[0032]           In another embodiment, the PTCP comprises an irradiated or chemically
inactivated cell membrane preparation. Membranes of the cell membrane preparation may
comprise at least one ligand for causing ligation of the receptors selected from the group
consisting of: CD2, LFA-1, NKp46, 2B4 and DNAM.
[0033]           In some embodiments, the PTCP comprises irradiated CTV-1 myeloid
leukemia cells, or a membrane preparation thereof. In other embodiments, the PTCP
comprises chemically inactivated CTV-1 myeloid leukemia cells, or a membrane preparation
thereof.
[0034]           In some embodiments, during priming, expression of CD69 is upregulated on
the NK cells. In other embodiments CD16 is shed on the NK cell surface, such that the
primed NK cell is CD 16-.
                                                 9

[0035]          In another embodiment, a method for in vivo priming of NK cells, comprises:
(i) introducing into a patient a PTCP comprising an irradiated or otherwise inactivated tumor
cell or membrane preparation thereof having one or more priming ligands attached to a
membrane surface, each of said one or more priming ligands being independently capable of
ligation of the receptors selected from the group consisting of: CD2, LFA-1, NKp46, 2B4 and
DNAM; and (ii) contacting the NK cells in vivo with the PTCP. The method may further
comprise the step of, prior to irradiating, immobilizing the tumor cell or membrane
preparation in an amorphous carbohydrate-glass matrix, and irradiating the carbohydrate
glass matrix with the tumor cell or membrane preparation immobilized therein. In some
embodiments, the method further comprises dissolving the carbohydrate glass matrix with the
tumor cell or membrane preparation immobilized therein using a solvent, for example, water.
In other embodiments, the method further comprises the step of, prior to irradiation,
lyophilizing the tumor cell or membrane preparation, and subsequently irradiating the
lyophilized tumor cell or membrane preparation.
[0036]          While irradiation can sufficiently inactivate the priming tumor cell preparation
to prevent proliferation in the human body, other means can be implemented to prevent such
proliferation as described herein and/or as generally known in the art.
Inactivated CTV-1 cells for In Vivo PrimingofNK Cells
[0037]          Now, in a first preferred embodiment, CTV-1 cells are irradiated or
chemically inactivated to form a priming tumor cell preparation (PTCP) for in vivo priming
of NK cells. Optionally, genetic modifications can be implemented as described above to
yield the PTCP.
[0038]          While irradiation generally      inactivates the tumor cells for preventing
proliferation within the body, the same irradiation can harm proteins and other biomolecules
associated with the tumor cells, in particular when the tumor cells are irradiated while
suspended in an aqueous solution. To protect the cellular sub-components, it may be
preferred to first immobilize the tumor cell preparation in an amorphous carbohydrate-glass
state using methods known in the art, and subsequently irradiate the immobilized preparation.
Subsequently, water can be used to dissolve the carbohydrate, and the irradiated tumor cells
or portions thereof can be separated.
                                                10

[0039]           Alternatively, the tumor cell preparation can be lyophilized and subsequently
irradiated.
[0040]           In some embodiments, irradiation is not required, that is, where other means
are implemented to render the PTCP unable to proliferate in the body of the patient for which
it is introduced.
[0041]           The CTV-1 cells express ligands of CD2, NKp46, LFA-1 on their surface,
which are useful to prime these receptors of the NK cells. Thus, a properly inactivated CTV-1
cell, will be safe to introduce within the human patient and will function to prime NK cells in
the body.
Example 1: RAJI lvsis in co-culture
[0042]           RAJI cells are known to be an NK cell resistant tumor cell line.
[0043]           In a first experiment, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC)
were isolated from normal volunteers and cultured with RAJI cells. The PTCP for NK cell
priming is added to a co-culture of PBMC with RAJI cells to modify the response of the NK
cells in the PBMC to the RAJI cells in a system that mimics the naturally occurring situation
of human blood in vivo. Over the period of co-incubation, an increase in RAJI cells number
demonstrates the normal growth characteristics of the RAJI cell in culture. A decrease in
RAJI cells in the presence of NK cells relative to the RAJI cells alone reflects RAJI cell
killing (lysis) by the NK cells in the PBMC culture. The presence of the priming composition
is predicted to increase the degree of RAJI cell killing by the NK cells within the PBMC
population.
[0044]           In a first isolate, an amount of the PBMC were spiked with a known amount of
RAJI cells. In a second isolate, the same amount of PBMC were spiked with the same amount
of RAJI cells and SEM 15++. In a third isolate, the same amount of PBMC were spiked with
the same amount of RAJI cells and CTV-1. In a fourth isolate, the same amount of PBMC
were spiked with RAJI cells and a combination of the SEM 15++ and CTV-1. The number of
killed RAJI per volume was determined at time intervals of twenty-four and forty-eight hours
as shown in the chart of FIG 2A and the plot of FIG.2B. The results indicate that SEM15++
did not reduce the proliferation of RAJI, and that CTV-1 alone, and in combination with
SEM 15++, did reduce the proliferation of RAJI cells. This experiment has been repeated
                                                  11

with different PBMC donors and the results are confirmed. From this experiment we show
that CTV-1 functions to reduce the proliferation of RAJI cells. Our hypothesis is that ligands
expressed on the CTV-1 cell surface function provide Signal 1 to prime the NK cells from the
peripheral blood, which enables the NK cells which are now primed to kill the RAJI cells.
This priming occurs in the presence of other mononuclear cells and in the presence of tumor
cells that are all present.
[0045]           FIG.2A shows only the addition of CTV1 cells, a tumor cell line that
expresses Signal 1 and can prime NK cells (convert rNK to pNK) can decrease the growth of
RAJI cells, a NK resistant cell line, in a human (PBMC) culture. When CD15 positive SEM
cells are added to the PBMC culture (as a negative control), the growth of RAJI cells is not
changed, and may be increased, compared to media alone.          When both CTV1 and CD15
positive SEM cells are added to the culture, there response is equivalent to the addition of
CTV1 cells alone.
[0046]           By comparison, as demonstrated in FIG.2B, the growth of the RAJI cells is
increased if a CD15 positive SEM cells are added to the culture. Both the CTV1 and SEM
cells are cancer cell lines. The difference between CTV1 cells and SEM cells is that CTV1
cells are a NK resistant cell line that expresses Signal 1 (priming signal) but has no Signal 2
(triggering signal). SEM cells are NK sensitive cells that express both Signal 1 and Signal 2.
When CTV1 cells are added to the PBMC, the NK cells become primed and kill RAJI cells
when they come in contact with them. The killing of the RAJI cells is demonstrated by
decreased RAJI cell numbers (decreased growth). When SEM is added to the culture system,
that NK cells kill the SEM cells. There is no killing of RAJI cells because there are no
primed NK cells in the system. The increase in RAJI cell growth is likely to be due to the
phenomenon of "cold target inhibition" where the small proportion of NK cells within the
PBMC mix which are able to lyse RAJI cells spontaneously are preferentially targeting the
SEM cells and reducing the number of cells able to target the RAJI cells.
Example 2: RAJI lvsis in co-culturepart H
[0047]           In a second experiment, we investigated the effects of each of: (i) PMBC
alone; (ii) PBMC and CTV-1; (ii) PBMC with IL-2 and IL-15, and (iv) PBMC with a
combination of CTV-1, IL-2 and IL-15, on the proliferation of RAJI cells. The results are
shown in FIG.3. Here, in addition to the above combinations, different ratios of NK cells to
                                                12

RAJI cells were investigated. We discovered that after forty-eight hours, and a ratio of about
12:1 PBMC to RAJI cells, the combination of PMBC and CTV-1 was much more effective in
killing RAJI than PBMC alone. Even at a ratio of 2:1 PBMC to RAJI cells, the combination
of PBMC plus CTV-1 was observably better than PBMC alone. Further, PBMC with CTV-1
showed higher lysis than PBMC with the combination low dose IL-2 and IL-15. However,
the data illustrates that the combination of PBMC with CTV-1, and low dose IL-2 and IL-15
produced the greatest RAJI cell killing. While this experiment was performed in vitro, we
believe that CTV-1, with or without IL-2 and IL-15, will be effective for in vivo priming of
NK cells.
[0048]           Furthermore, with the addition of minute quantities of inflammatory cytokines
that promote NK cells function/health (IL2 and IL15), there is significantly more killing of
the RAJI cells than with CTV1 cells alone or the cytokines alone.
[0049]           While CTV-1 tumor cells are used throughout the instant disclosure, the
invention is not intended to be limited to CTV-1 cells. The method may implement any tumor
cells, or fragments thereof, which result in NK cell priming. Thus, a first tumor cell can be
irradiated and introduced to a patient for in vivo priming of NK cells, and the primed NK
cells can be subsequently presented to second tumor cells for lysing. These and other aspects
of the invention will be appreciated by those having skill in the art.
[0050]           Thus, a method for in vivo priming of natural killer cells is disclosed.
[0051]           In one aspect, the invention comprises the introduction of a priming tumor cell
preparation (PTCP) for contacting resting NK cells (rNK) in vivo; wherein the contacting of
the rNK cells in vivo with the PTCP induces a change of the rNK cell into a primed NK cell
(pNK), that is, such achieves NK cell priming. Once in the primed state, a pNK cell can then
contact a cancer cell in the host to receive additional signaling, whereby the pNK cell can
become "activated" to commence granule exocytosis for lysing the cancer cell.
[0052]           The rNK cells may be located in the peripheral blood.
[0053]           Once an rNK cell is primed, it is uniquely maintained in the primed state for a
sustained duration. Therefore, it can be said the pNK cell is a memory primed NK cell and
does not require subsequent or continuous exposure to the PTCP in order to maintain the
priming state.
                                                13

[0054]          An example of a PTCP, in accordance with one embodiment, includes a
derivative of a CTV-1 cell line obtained commercially, for example the cell line ACC 40
from DSMZ Germany (www.dsmz.de). CTV-1 was allegedly established from the peripheral
blood of a 40-year-old man with acute monoblastic leukemia (AML M5) at relapse in 1982. It
is a rare cancer cell line that exhibits specific ligands ("Signal 1") which are capable of
ligation of the Signal 1 priming receptors on rNK cells, but the CTV-1 cells lack specific
ligands which signal triggering receptors ("Signal 2"). Recently, a CD-56 negative (CD56-)
CTV-1 sub population cell line was isolated and experiments conducted in vitro. Results of
the experiments suggest that CTV-1 provides a combination of signals which prime rNK
cells. The resulting CD56- CTV-1 primed pNK cell was investigated and confirmed to shed
CD16. In contrast, cytokine primed NK cells, for example IL-2 and/or IL-15, do not shed
CD16. Moreover, the resulting CD56- CTV-1 primed pNK cell was shown to downregulate
NKG2D and NKP46 and upregulate CD69. Thus, the CD56- CTV-1 cell may form a part of
the PTCP, in particular after inactivation by irradiation or chemical inactivation.
[0055]          In some embodiments it may be desirable to combine one or more cytokines,
for example, IL-2, IL-15, and others known to be associated with differentiation of NK cells,
or a combination thereof, with the CD56- CTV-1 cells to form an enhanced PTCP.
[0056]          Administration of the PTCP can be accomplished via peripheral blood
administration.
[0057]          While a CTV-1 cell line is described, it should be understood that other PTCPs
may be similarly implemented such that a combination of ligands is provided and introduced
to the priming receptors of rNK cells, which may include receptors CD2, LFA-1, NKG2D,
2B4, and DNAM-1. Other PTCP platforms may include the use of, for example, SEM cells,
or other cancer cells which are confirmed to possess priming ligands (Signal 1) on the cell
surface but which do not possess triggering ligands (Signal 2).
[0058]          It may be preferred to implement a genetic knock out of MHC class 1
molecules on the PTCP where the PTCP includes expression of MHC class 1 molecules. The
genetic strategy may include the implementation of TALEN or CRISPR gene editing
techniques.
[0059]          In certain embodiments, the priming ligand ICAM-1 is implemented with the
PTCP for ligation of the LFA-1 receptor of rNK cells. In a preferred embodiment, the PTCP
                                                14

comprises intact tumor cells expressing one or more of ICAM-1 or ICAM-3 on a surface
thereof.
[0060]           In certain other embodiments, the priming ligands CD15, CD58, CD48, and
CD59 are implemented with the PTCP for ligation of the CD2 receptor of rNK cells. In a
preferred embodiment, the PTCP comprises intact tumor cells expressing one or more of
CD15, CD58, CD48, and CD59 on a surface thereof.
[0061]           In certain other embodiments, one or more of the priming ligands MICA
and/or MICB (major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related), ULBP1-3,
PVR, Rae-i and H-60, are implemented with the PTCP for ligation of the NKG2D and/or
DNAM-1 receptors of rNK cells. In a preferred embodiment, the PTCP comprises intact
tumor cells expressing at least one of MICA, MICB ULBPs, PVR, Rae-i and H-60 on a
surface thereof.
[0062]           CD48 may also be implemented with the PTCP as a ligand for 2B4 receptors
on the rNK cell surface resulting in priming activity.
[0063]           In a preferred embodiment, one or more first cancer cell lines, for example
CTV-1, having Signal 1 ligands but not Signal 2 ligands, are selected. The first cancer cell
line(s) are further investigated to identify the presence of desired NK cell priming ligands on
the cell surface, such as those NK cell priming ligands as listed above. One of the first cancer
cell line(s) is selected for use to form an NK priming tumor cell preparation (PTCP). The first
cancer cell line is optionally genetically modified to knock out MHC class I molecules,
and/or knock in certain desirable genes. The first cell line may be further purified by selective
isolation of phenotype differentiations, for example, a CD56- variant of CTV-1 can be
isolated to obtain a homogeneous sub-population. The selected sub-population PTCP can be
scaled using known techniques, and subsequently radiated to prevent proliferation in a human
host. The PTCP is then introduced to a human host where the PTCP induces rNK cells to
become pNK cells, wherein the pNK cells are adapted to attack and kill rNK resistant tumor
cells (which are pNK susceptible, since, the pNK cells are primed with the priming Signal 1
activity).
[0064]           The PTCP may be enhanced by introduction with one or more cytokines in
vitro prior to introducing the PTCP to the human host. In this regard, the PTCP may be
                                                 15

introduced to IL-2 and/or IL-15 cytokines, or other cytokines known to enhance production,
downregulation or upregulation of tumor killing adjuvants and receptors in NK cells.
[0065]          Antibodies and/or their derivatives can be used to bind and express ligands on
the membrane surface of cells of the PTCP.
[0066]          In certain other embodiments, the PTCP can be produced as described above,
that is, with intact first cancer cells, and the cells of the PTCP can be ablated using known
agitation and other techniques to prepare a membrane preparation, wherein cell membrane
fragments of the first cancer cells form a mixture of ligands and adjuvants forming the PTCP.
                                INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
The instant disclosure concerns methods for the treatment of cancer and other infectious
diseases.
                                                 16

                                           CLAIMS
We Claim:
1.       A method for priming NK cells which comprises the step of contacting the NK cells
in vivo with a priming tumor cell preparation (PTCP).
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the PTCP comprises intact tumor cells.
3.       The method of claim 2, wherein the intact tumor cells comprise on a surface thereof at
least one priming ligand capable of priming an NK cell receptor selected from the group
consisting of: CD2, LFA-1, NKp46, 2B4 and DNAM.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the PTCP is chemically inactivated.
5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the PTCP comprises a cell membrane preparation.
6.       The method of claim 5, wherein the cell membrane preparation comprises at least one
priming ligand capable of priming an NK cell receptor selected from the group consisting of:
CD2, LFA-1, NKp46, 2B4 and DNAM.
7.       The method of claim 1, wherein the PTCP comprises inactivated CTV-1 myeloid
leukemia cells or a membrane preparation thereof.
8.       The method of claim 1, wherein, during priming, expression of CD69 is upregulated
on the NK cells.
9.       The method of claim 1, wherein, during priming, expression of CD16 is shed from a
surface of the NK cells.
10.      The method of claim 2, wherein the intact tumor cells comprise on a surface thereof at
least three priming ligands for priming the NK cells, the three priming ligands comprising
three from the group consisting of:
    (i)     a priming ligand capable of priming a CD2 receptor of the NK cells;
                                               17

    (ii)     a priming ligand capable of priming a LFA-1 receptor of the NK cells;
    (iii)     a priming ligand capable of priming a NKp46 receptor of the NK cells;
    (iv)      a priming ligand capable of priming a 2B4 receptor of the NK cells; and
    (v)      a priming ligand capable of priming a DNAM receptor of the NK cells.
11.       The method of claim 5, wherein the cell membrane preparation comprises at least
three priming ligands for priming the NK cells, the three priming ligands comprising three
from the group consisting of:
    (i)      a priming ligand capable of priming a CD2 receptor of the NK cells;
    (ii)     a priming ligand capable of priming a LFA-1 receptor of the NK cells;
    (iii)     a priming ligand capable of priming a NKp46 receptor of the NK cells;
    (iv)      a priming ligand capable of priming a 2B4 receptor of the NK cells; and
    (v)      a priming ligand capable of priming a DNAM receptor of the NK cells.
                                                18

<removed-date>
                      Obtaining pharmaceutical grade CTV-1 cells
<removed-apn>
                   Optionally modifying the CTV-1 cells to knock-in
                   and/or Knock-out HLA class I or class II antigens
                     using known genetic modification techniques
                              Inactivating the CTV-1 cells
                      Introducing the inactivated CTV-1 cells into
                                        a patient
              contacting rNK cells with the inactivated CTV-1 cells in vivo
                        to form non-naturally occuring pNK cells
                         presenting the pNK cells to tumor cells
                                   for tumor cell lysis
                                        FIG.1

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+271E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>

