   Abstract
   There is provided a device for generating an inhalable aerosol and/or gas, the device
   comprising an aerosol generating material having an integrated electrical resistance
 5 heating element, so that the aerosol generating material may be heated in direct contact
   with the electrical resistance heating element, wherein the aerosol generating material
   is provided as a unitary structure and/ or coating which may be heated to generate
   multiple deliveries of an inhalable aerosol and/or gas. There is also provided a method
   for fabricating the device. There is also provided the use of the device and the use of the
10 aerosol generating material, to generate an inhalable aerosol and/or gas.

                                                 1
   Aerosol Generating Material and Devices Including the Same
   Field
   The present invention relates to aerosol generating material which emits an aerosol
 5 and/or gas on heating.
   Background
   Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
   considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
   common general knowledge in the field.
10
   Tobacco material is heated in smoking articles for the purpose of releasing substances
   contained in the material and delivering these as an aerosol.
   In many smoking articles, the heat providing the thermal energy needed to release a
15 smoke aerosol from the tobacco material is provided via the physico-chemical
   degradation processes that occur during combustion, which may be a combination of
   oxidative degradation, pyrolysis, pyrosynthesis, and distillation. The thermal energy
   generated by combustion tends to be high, however, and the amount of heat released is
   often difficult to control.
20
   Sum m ary
   According to a preferred form of the invention there is provided a device for generating
   an inhalable aerosol and/or gas, the device comprising an aerosol generating material
   having an integrated electrical resistance heating element at least partially embedded
25 therein, so that the aerosol generating material may be heated in direct contact with the
   electrical resistance heating element, wherein the aerosol generating material is
   provided as a unitary structure and/ or coating which may be heated to generate
   multiple deliveries of an inhalable aerosol and/or gas; wherein the aerosol generating
   material is a cast or extruded material; and wherein at least part of the electrical
30 resistance heating element is in the form of a mesh.
   According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a device for generating an
   inhalable aerosol and/or gas, the device comprising an aerosol generating material
   having an integrated electrical resistance heating element at least partially embedded
35 therein, so that the aerosol generating material may be heated in direct contact with the

                                                 2
   electrical resistance heating element, wherein the aerosol generating material is
   provided as a unitary structure and/ or coating which may be heated to generate
   multiple deliveries of an inhalable aerosol and/or gas; wherein the aerosol generating
   material is a cast or extruded material, and wherein a first portion of the aerosol
 5 generating material may be heated independently from a second portion of the aerosol
   generating material by the electrical resistance heating element and wherein the first
   portion and the second portion have different chemical compositions.
   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
10 claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
   inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
   sense of "including, but not limited to".
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material comprises an aerosol generating
15 agent.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material comprises nicotine.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material comprises tobacco material.
20
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material comprises an inorganic filler
   material.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material comprises a binder.
25
   In some embodiments, at least part of the electrical resistance heating element is in the
   form of a mesh or a coil.
   In some embodiments, at least part of the aerosol generating material is at least
30 partially surrounded by the electrical resistance heating element.
   In some embodiments, a first portion of the aerosol generating material may be heated
   independently from a second portion of the aerosol generating material by the electrical
   resistance heating element.
35

                                                  3
    In some embodiments, the first portion and the second portions have different
    chemical compositions.
    In some embodiments, at least one portion of the aerosol generating material must be
  5 moved from a first position to a second position in order to be heated by the electrical
    resistance heating element.
    In some embodiments, the heating of the aerosol generating material by the electrical
    resistance heating element is to be initiated and/or controlled by the user of the device.
10
    In some embodiments, the device is a heat-not-burn device.
    According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for
    fabricating a device for generating an inhalable aerosol and/or gas according to the first
 15 aspect, wherein the method comprises applying a slurry of aerosol generating material
    to an electrical resistance heating element.
    In some embodiments, the slurry is applied by casting the slurry onto the electrical
    resistance heating element. In some embodiments, the slurry is applied by dipping the
20  electrical resistance heating element into the slurry. In some embodiments, the slurry
    is extruded with or onto the electrical resistance heating element.
    According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided the use of a
    device according to the first aspect for the generation of an aerosol and/ or gas
25  comprising nicotine.
    According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided the use of an
    aerosol generating material as defined in the first aspect for the generation of an
    aerosol and/or gas comprising nicotine by heating the material in direct contact with an
30  electrical resistance heating element.
    According to a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a composite
    structure comprising an electrical resistance heating element, which is at least partially
    embedded in, or coated by, an aerosol generating material, wherein the material is in
35  direct contact with the electrical resistance heating element and may be heated to

                                                 4
   generate multiple deliveries of an inhalable aerosol and/or gas, and wherein a first
   portion of the aerosol generating material may be heated independently from a second
   portion of the aerosol generating material by the electrical resistance heating element
   and wherein the first portion and the second portion have different chemical
 5 compositions.
   In some embodiments, the electrical resistance heating element is a mesh.
   In some embodiments, the composite structure may be moved to heat different
10 portions of the structure.
   In some embodiments, different portions of the composite structure may be heated
   independently by separate power sources or by switching the supply of power from one
   portion to another.
15
   In some embodiments, the composite structure is in the form of an elongate ribbon or
   band.
   In some embodiments, the composite structure comprises an aerosol generating
20 material as defined in the first aspect of the invention.
   According to a sixth aspect of the present invention, there is provided an article
   comprising a composite structure according to the fifth aspect of the invention, and a
   means for moving the composite structure to allow different portions thereof to be
25 heated.
   In some embodiments, the composite structure is in the form of an elongate ribbon or
   band and the means for moving it is a spool.
   BriefDescription ofDrawings
30 Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example only, with
   reference to accompanying drawings, in which:
   Figure 1 is a schematic illustration of aerosol generating material coated onto a metal
   mesh heating element according to one embodiment of the invention (not drawn to
35 scale).

                                                 5
   Figure 2 is a schematic illustration of the cross section of aerosol generating material
   coated onto a metal mesh heating element according to one embodiment of the
   invention (not drawn to scale).
 5 Figure 3 is a schematic illustration of aerosol generating material coated onto a metal
   mesh heating element connected to a power source according to one embodiment of the
   invention (not drawn to scale).
   Figure 4 is a schematic illustration of two metal mesh heating elements, each coated
10 with aerosol generating material, connected to a sequential power source to enable
   separate sequential heating of each element according to one embodiment of the
   invention (not drawn to scale).
   Figure 5 is a schematic illustration of aerosol generating material coated onto a metal
15 coil heating element according to one embodiment of the invention (not drawn to
   scale).
   Figure 6 is a schematic illustration of the cross section of aerosol generating material
   coated onto a metal coil heating element according to one embodiment of the invention
20 (not drawn to scale).
   Figure 7 is a schematic illustration of aerosol generating material coated onto a metal
   coil heating element connected to a power source according to one embodiment of the
   invention (not drawn to scale).
25 Figure 8 is a schematic illustration of two metal coil heating elements, each coated with
   aerosol generating material connected to a sequential power source to enable separate
   sequential heating of each element according to one embodiment of the invention (not
   drawn to scale).
30 Figure 9 is a schematic illustration of aerosol generating material surrounded by a
   metal mesh heating element connected to a power source according to one embodiment
   of the invention (not drawn to scale).
   Figure 10 is a schematic illustration of aerosol generating material surrounded by a
35 metal coil heating element connected to a power source according to one embodiment
   of the invention (not drawn to scale).

                                                 6
   Figure 11 is a schematic illustration of a sequential aerosol generation chamber
   including several heating elements comprising aerosol generating material, each of
   which individually may be in a sealed chamber, in a sealed capsule with electrical
   contacts for connection to a sequential power source to enable separate sequential
 5 heating of each element according to one embodiment of the invention (not drawn to
   scale).
   Figure 12 is a schematic illustration of a smoking article incorporating a sequential
   aerosol generation chamber according to one embodiment of the invention (not drawn
10 to scale).
   Figure 13 is a schematic illustration of how the sequential aerosol generation chamber
   may be inserted into the smoking article (not drawn to scale).
15 Figure 14 is a schematic illustration of the circuit logic for the electrical heating element
   in the smoking article according to one embodiment of the invention (not drawn to
   scale).
   Figure 15 is a schematic illustration of a coated heating element in a cassette format,
20 with cassette drive to advance the element into a heating zone, connected to a power
   source (not drawn to scale).
   Figure 16 is a schematic illustration of a smoking article incorporating a cassette
   aerosol generation chamber according to one embodiment of the invention (not drawn
25 to scale).
   Figure 17 is a schematic illustration of the circuit logic for the electrical heating element
   in a cassette format in the smoking article according to one embodiment of the
   invention (not drawn to scale).
30
   Figure 18 is a schematic illustration of an aerosol generation test rig apparatus for
   evaluation of aerosol generation propensity (not drawn to scale).
   Detailed Description
   The present invention relates to devices for forming an inhalable aerosol and/or gas,
35 the devices comprising aerosol generating material that may be heated to emit an

                                                 7
   inhalable aerosol. More specifically, the present invention relates to devices comprising
   aerosol generating material in contact with a heat source which is an electrical
   resistance heating element.
 5 The aerosol generating material has an integrated electrical resistance heating element,
   so that the aerosol generating material and heating element form a single unit or
   composite structure. In some embodiments, the electrical resistance heating element is
   at least partially embedded in or coated by the aerosol generating material. In some
   embodiments, the electrical resistance heating element at least partially surrounds the
10 aerosol generating material.
   In some embodiments, the heating of the aerosol generating material does not result in
   any significant combustion of the material. In some embodiments, the heating results
   in no combustion or essentially no combustion of the aerosol generating material.
15
   Using electricity to heat aerosol generating material in a smoking article has many
   advantages. In particular, it has many advantages over using combustion.
   Combustion is a complex process that generates aerosols by a combination of
20 interactive physico-chemical processes which may include oxidative degradation,
   pyrolysis, pyrosynthesis, and distillation. It generally leads to the generation of complex
   aerosols. For example, smoke arising from a combustible smoking article comprising
   tobacco is a complex, dynamic mixture of more than 5000 identified constituents.
25 The exothermic processes of combustion may be self-sustaining, and may result in heat
   generation rates, and heat output quantities, sufficient for degradation of the
   combustible matrix. In some cases, the matrix may be completely degraded to an ash
   residue which may comprise inorganic, non-combustible materials. Very high
   temperatures can be reached in burning cigarettes due to the exothermic reaction of
30 combustion. In between taking puffs of a cigarette (the inter-puff smouldering period),
   the centre of the burning zone in the tobacco rod of the cigarette can reach
   temperatures as high as 800 C. During taking a puff of a cigarette, the periphery of the
   burning zone in the tobacco rod of the cigarette can reach temperatures as high as
   910 C.
35

                                                 8
   Using electrical resistance heating systems is advantageous because the rate of heat
   generation is easier to control, and lower levels of heat are easier to generate, compared
   to when using combustion.
 5 The use of electrical heating systems therefore allows greater control over the
   generation of an aerosol and/ or gas from aerosol generating materials. Furthermore, it
   allows for aerosol and/or gas to be generated without combustion taking place, rather
   than through combustive degradation. Electrical heating systems can also facilitate the
   generation of an aerosol and/or gas from inherently non-combustible materials, such
10 as inorganic sorbents with ingredients that generate an aerosol and/or gas when
   heated.
   In the devices of the invention, the electrical resistance heating element provides a
   medium for conducting electricity and generating heat. When an electric current passes
15 through the element, the temperature of the element increases, and the aerosol
   generating material in contact with it is heated.
   Raising the temperature of the aerosol generating material may have any suitable effect
   on the aerosol generating material. In some embodiments, it may lead to the generation
20 of a gas and/ or aerosol. In some embodiments, raising the temperature of the aerosol
   generating material may result in the formation of a gas and/ or aerosol which has
   desirable sensory characteristics and/or comprises nicotine.
   The effect delivered by the aerosol generating material when heated by the heating
25 element will depend on the chemical composition of the aerosol generating material, as
   well as the temperature to which it is heated.
   The aerosol generating material included in the devices of the invention may have any
   suitable chemical composition.
30
   The devices of the invention are able to provide multiple deliveries or doses of aerosol
   and/ or gas. This means that the aerosol generating material may be heated to produce
   sufficient aerosol and/ or gas to allow multiple puffs. This may be achieved by heating
   the aerosol generating material for a period of time sufficient to produce a volume of
35 aerosol and/or gas suitable for multiple deliveries. In some embodiments, this may
   involve heating the aerosol generating material constantly. Alternatively, this may

                                                   9
    involve successive, shorter periods of heating the aerosol generating material,
    optionally with each period producing a single delivery or dose of aerosol and/ or gas.
    In the latter embodiments, the same aerosol generating material may be repeatedly
    heated by the same heating element to produce multiple deliveries or doses of aerosol
  5 and/or gas.
    In some embodiments, the devices of the invention include aerosol generating material
    in the form of a unitary structure. This means that the material is provided as a single
    piece or item. This unitary structure may, for example, be extruded, cast or moulded.
10  The structure or coating may be formed from a slurry which is dried to provide the
    aerosol generating material in a solid form. In some embodiments, the slurry is dried
    in contact with the heating element so that the aerosol generating material is in a solid
    form and adheres to the heating element.
 15 In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise an aerosol
    generating agent. In this context, an "aerosol generating agent" is an agent that
    promotes the generation of an aerosol. An aerosol generating agent may promote the
    generation of an aerosol by promoting the sublimation of a gas to a solid, or the
    condensation of a gas to a liquid. In some embodiments, an aerosol generating agent
20  may improve the delivery of flavour from the aerosol generating material.
    Any suitable aerosol generating agent or agents may be included in the aerosol
    generating material of the invention. Suitable aerosol generating agents include, but are
    not limited to: a polyol such as sorbitol, glycerol, and glycols like propylene glycol or
25  triethylene glycol; a non-polyol such monohydric alcohols, high boiling point
    hydrocarbons, acids such as lactic acid, glycerol derivatives, esters such as diacetin,
    triacetin, triethylene glycol diacetate, triethyl citrate or isopropyl myristate and
    aliphatic carboxylic acid esters such as methyl stearate, dimethyl dodecanedioate and
    dimethyl tetradecanedioate.
30
    Any suitable quantity and concentration of aerosol generating agents may be included
    in the aerosol generating material. In some embodiments, the quantity and
    concentration of an aerosol generating agent may be used as a means for controlling the
    amount of aerosol and/ or gas generated by the material on heating. In some
35  embodiments, a greater quantity and concentration of an aerosol generating agent may

                                                10
   be included in the material so that a greater quantity of aerosol and/or gas is generated
   on heating.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise between about 5
 5 50% or 10-20% aerosol generating agent by weight. In some ofthese embodiments, the
   aerosol generating agent may be glycerol. In some embodiments, it may be
   advantageous for the aerosol generating material to comprise between about 10-30% or
   20-40% aerosol generating agent by weight. In some of these embodiments, the aerosol
   generating agent may be glycerol.
10
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise one or more
   compounds for the purpose of lowering the boiling point of one or more other
   substances in the aerosol generating material. In some of these embodiments, the
   aerosol generating material may comprise one or more compounds for the purpose of
15 forming an azeotrope with one or more other substances in the aerosol generating
   material.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise one or more
   flavourants. As used herein, the terms "flavour" and "flavourant" refer to materials
20 which, where local regulations permit, may be used to create a desired taste or aroma in
   a product for adult consumers.
   They may include extracts (e.g., licorice, hydrangea, Japanese white bark magnolia leaf,
   chamomile, fenugreek, clove, menthol, Japanese mint, aniseed, cinnamon, herb,
25 wintergreen, cherry, berry, peach, apple, Drambuie, bourbon, scotch, whiskey,
   spearmint, peppermint, lavender, cardamon, celery, cascarilla, nutmeg, sandalwood,
   coconut oil, bergamot, geranium, honey essence, rose oil, vanilla, lemon oil, orange oil,
   cassia, caraway, cognac,jasmine, ylang-ylang, sage, fennel, piment, ginger, anise,
   coriander, coffee, or a mint oil from any species of the genus Mentha), flavour
30 enhancers, bitterness receptor site blockers, sensorial receptor site activators or
   simulators, sugars and/or sugar substitutes (e.g., sucralose, acesulfame, potassium,
   aspartame, saccharine, cyclamates, lactose, sucrose, glucose, fructose, sorbitol, or
   mannitol), and other additives such as charcoal, chlorophyll, minerals, botanicals, or
   breath freshening agents. They may be imitation, synthetic or natural ingredients, or
35 blends thereof. They may be in any suitable form, for example, oil, liquid, or powder.

                                                11
   In embodiments wherein the aerosol generating material comprises one or more
   flavourants, it may be advantageous for the material to comprise a quantity and
   concentration of flavourants suitable for delivering desirable quantities of them to the
   aerosol and/or gas generated from the aerosol generating material. In some
 5 embodiments, a desirable quantity may be a quantity that results in a superior sensory
   experience for the adult consumer of the devices of the invention.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise nicotine. In some
   embodiments, it may be advantageous for the material to comprise a quantity and
10 concentration of nicotine suitable for delivering desirable quantities of nicotine in the
   aerosol and/ or gas generated when the aerosol generating material is heated.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material releases nicotine in a more
   controlled and efficient manner compared to when it is released in conventional,
15 combustible cigarettes. With conventional cigarettes, nicotine is released in between
   taking puffs because the tobacco continues to burn. However, in some embodiments, in
   the devices of the present invention, the aerosol generating material may only be heated
   when desired, which may be when inhaling the aerosol and/ or gas generated in the
   device.
20 In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise more than about
    1%, 2%, 3%,4%,5%,6%, 7%,8%, 9%,or 10% nicotine by weight. In some
   embodiments, the material may comprise less than about 25%, 20%, 15%, 10%, or 5%
   nicotine by weight. In some embodiments, the material may comprise about 4%
   nicotine by weight.
25
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise tobacco material,
   wherein tobacco material is any material comprising tobacco or derivatives thereof In
   some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise a tobacco substitute.
30 The tobacco used in the aerosol generating material or treated to produce tobacco
   material, such as a tobacco extract, for use in the aerosol generating material may be
   any suitable tobacco, such as single grades or blends, cut rag or whole leaf, including
   Virginia and/ or Burley. It may also be tobacco particle 'fines'or dust, expanded
   tobacco, stems, expanded stems, and other processed stem materials, such as cut rolled
35 stems.

                                                  12
   In embodiments where the aerosol generating material comprises tobacco material, the
   tobacco material may have any suitable chemical composition and may have been
   prepared according to any suitable process. In some embodiments, the tobacco
   material may comprise one or more substances in the solid and/or liquid phase. In
 5 these embodiments, the tobacco material may have any suitable solid and liquid
   content.
   In some embodiments, the tobacco material may comprise more than about 1%, 2%,
   3%, 4%, 5%,6%,7%, 8%, 9%, or 10% nicotine by weight. In some embodiments, the
10 tobacco material may comprise less than about 25%, 20%, 15 %, 10%, or 5% nicotine by
   weight. In some embodiments, the tobacco material may comprise about 4% nicotine
   by weight.
   In some embodiments, the tobacco material may comprise a tobacco extract. A tobacco
15 extract is a composition of tobacco that is obtained by a method comprising the
   treatment of tobacco with a solvent, along with any other suitable extraction processes.
   In some embodiments, the tobacco extract may be obtained by a method comprising
   the treatment of tobacco with water. In some embodiments, the treatment of tobacco
20 with water may comprise adding water to tobacco, separating the resulting water-based
   liquid extract from the insoluble portion of tobacco feedstock, and optionally removing
   excess water to form a tobacco extract. Any suitable filtration methods may be used,
   such as centrifugal solids filtration or vacuum fluidised bed filtration. Any suitable
   evaporative concentration methods may be used, such as vacuum spinning disk,
25 vacuum falling, or rising film evaporation. Such processes would be known to those
   skilled in the art of filtration and evaporative concentration.
   In some embodiments, the tobacco extract may be prepared by a method comprising
   steps for removing or reducing the concentration of certain substances. For example,
30 the tobacco extract may be treated with bentonite to reduce protein content, and/or
   polyvinylpolypyrrolidone to reduce polyphenol content.
   In some embodiments, the tobacco extract may be prepared by a method comprising
   steps for adding or increasing the concentration of one or more substances. In some of
35 these embodiments, aerosol generating agents and/ or flavourants may be added, for
   example.

                                                 13
   A tobacco extract included in the aerosol generating material in the devices of the
   invention may have any suitable chemical composition. It may have any suitable solid
   and liquid content. The solid content of the tobacco extract may have a significant effect
   on the structural stability of the aerosol generating material when added to the
 5 electrical resistance heating element, and may have a significant effect on how the
   material is affected when heated.
   Experiments have shown that aerosol generating material prepared by drying a slurry
   of aerosol generating material comprising tobacco extract with a solid content of about
10 55% is suitable for the invention. Details of these experiments are provided in the
   Examples section below. In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be
   prepared by drying a slurry of the aerosol generating material comprising a tobacco
   extract with a solid content of at least about 40%, 45%,   50 %, 55%, 60 %, 65%, 70%,
   75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 99%. In some embodiments, the aerosol generating
15 material may be prepared by drying a slurry of aerosol generating material comprising
   a tobacco extract with a solid content of about 55%.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise any suitable
   substances in place of, or in addition to, a tobacco extract. Examples of suitable
20 substances include, but are not limited to: water, a binder, an inorganic filler material,
   and an aerosol generating agent. In some embodiments, such substances may be added
   to the aerosol generating material during the process of preparing a reconstituted
   tobacco material. In some embodiments, such substances may be added to the aerosol
   generating material by a process comprising impregnation of the tobacco material.
25
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise one or more
   inorganic filler materials. The aerosol generating material may comprise any suitable
   inorganic filler materials. Suitable inorganic filler materials include, but are not limited
   to: calcium carbonate (i.e. chalk), perlite, vermiculite, diatomaceous earth, colloidal
30 silica, magnesium oxide, magnesium sulphate, magnesium carbonate, and suitable
   inorganic sorbents, such as molecular sieves.
   An inorganic filler material may be included in the aerosol generating material for any
   suitable purpose. In some embodiments, it may act as a sorbent and/or support for
35 other substances in the aerosol generating material. In some embodiments, it may act
   as a structure for adsorbing other substances before releasing them on heating. In some

                                                14
   embodiments, it may act as a sorbent and/or support for an aerosol generating agent,
   such as glycerol, and/or any other substances that influence the sensory characteristics
   of the aerosol generated on heating.
 5 In some embodiments, an inorganic filler material may be included in the aerosol
   generating material to provide additional strength. In some embodiments, it may be
   included together with a tobacco extract, in which case it may be included to help hold
   the tobacco extract together and/ or provide additional strength to it.
10 An inorganic filler material may be included in the aerosol generating material in any
   suitable quantity and concentration. In some embodiments, it may be advantageous to
   include a large quantity and concentration of inorganic filler material in the aerosol
   generating material to increase its strength. In some embodiments, the aerosol
   generating material may comprise between about 1-90%, 45-95%, 50-90%, 55-85%,
15 6 0- 8 0 %,or 65-75% inorganic filler material by weight. In some of these embodiments,
   the inorganic filler material may be chalk.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise one or more
   binders. The aerosol generating material may comprise any suitable binder. In some
20 embodiments, the binder comprises one or more of an alginate, celluloses or modified
   celluloses, starches or modified starches, and natural gums.
   Suitable binders include, but are not limited to: alginate salts comprising any suitable
   cation, such as sodium alginate, calcium alginate, and potassium alginate; celluloses or
25 modified celluloses, such as hydroxypropyl cellulose and carboxymethylcellulose;
   starches or modified starches; pectin salts comprising any suitable cation, such as
   sodium pectate; xanthan gum, guar gum, and any other suitable natural gums.
   A binder may be included in the aerosol generating material in any suitable quantity
30 and concentration. The quantity and concentration of the binder included in the
   material may vary depending on the composition of the material, the nature of the heat
   source, for example the electrical resistance heating element, and the properties desired
   of the device into which it is incorporated.
35 In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise between about 3
   50%, 5-40%, 10-35%, or 15-30% binder by weight. In some ofthese embodiments, the

                                                 15
   binder may be sodium alginate. In some embodiments, it may be advantageous for the
   material to comprise between about 20-25 %binder by weight. In some of these
   embodiments, the binder may be sodium alginate.
 5 In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise water. Water may
   be included for any suitable purpose, and may be included having been purified using
   any suitable method of purification, such as reverse osmosis, distillation, and/or ion
   exchange. In some embodiments, it may be included to moisten the material.
   Alternatively or in addition, it may be included to modify the sensory characteristics of
10 the aerosol and/or gas generated from the material on heating.
   Any suitable quantity of water may be included in the aerosol generating material. For
   example, some inorganic-based aerosol generating materials may comprise between
   about 3-10% water. For example, some tobacco-based aerosol generating materials may
15 comprise between about 10-15% water.
   In some embodiments, as discussed in greater detail below, the aerosol generating
   material may be applied to the heat source in the form or a slurry which is dried to form
   a solid coating or layer, or monolithic form. The slurry may include water, some of
20 which is removed as the slurry dries.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise one or more of
   the following in any possible combination: an aerosol generating agent, such as
   glycerol; an inorganic filler material, such as chalk; a binder, such as sodium alginate; a
25 flavourant, nicotine, and water.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may comprise heat-conducting
   particles. These may improve the rate of heat transfer from the electrical resistance
   heating element to the aerosol generating material. Alternatively or in addition, they
30 may improve the rate of heat transfer from one region of the aerosol generating
   material to another region of the aerosol generating material.
   The following discussion of the slurry and of the parameters for all of the components
   relate to the possible amounts and/or concentrations of the components in the slurry
35 for making an aerosol generating material (rather than referring to the components of
   the resultant aerosol generating material, unless otherwise stated).

                                                   16
   As used herein, a slurry is a liquid, gel, solution, suspension or emulsion. It does not
   necessarily include solid particles of matter. It is, in some embodiments, in a form
   which may be readily applied to the surface of a heat source so that, upon drying, it
   forms a coating or encases the heat source.
 5
   Thus, in some embodiments, the slurry has a consistency and/ or water content that
   renders it suitable for casting or dipping or spraying onto a heat source. In further
   embodiments, the slurry may have a consistency and/or water content that renders it
   suitable for extrusion, for example to form a rod of aerosol generating material around
10 which the heat source may be placed or formed.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be prepared by drying a
   slurry comprising between about     3 0 -8 0 %, 40-70%, or  5 0 -6 0 % tobacco material by
   weight. In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be prepared by
15 drying a slurry comprising about 55% tobacco material by weight.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be prepared by drying a
   slurry comprising between about 30-80%, 40-70%, or 50-60% tobacco extract by
   weight. In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be prepared by
   drying a slurry comprising about 55% tobacco extract by weight.
20
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be prepared by drying a
   slurry comprising between about 1-40%, 2-18%, 4-16%, 6-14%, or 8-12% binder by
   weight. In some of these embodiments, the binder may be sodium alginate. In some
   embodiments, it may be advantageous for the aerosol generating material to be
25 prepared by drying a slurry comprising about 10% binder by weight. In some of these
   embodiments, the binder may be sodium alginate.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be prepared by drying a
   slurry comprising between about 10 -50%, 15-45%,       2 0 -4 0 %, or 25-35% water by weight.
30 In some embodiments, it may be advantageous for the aerosol generating material to be
   prepared by drying a slurry comprising about 3 0% water by weight.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be prepared by drying a
   slurry comprising between about 1-4 0%, 2-15%, 3 -l10%, or 4 - 6 % aerosol generating
35 agent by weight. In some of these embodiments, the aerosol generating agent may be
   glycerol. In some embodiments, it may be advantageous for the aerosol generating

                                                17
   material to be prepared by drying a slurry comprising about 5% aerosol generating
   agent by weight. In some of these embodiments, the aerosol generating agent may be
   glycerol.
 5 Experiments have shown that aerosol generating material prepared by drying a slurry
   comprising about 340 g tobacco extract, 60 g sodium alginate, 200 g water, and 35 g
   glycerol has properties suitable for use as the aerosol generating material in the devices
   of the invention. Details of these experiments are provided under the Examples section
   below. An aerosol generating material prepared by drying a slurry comprising these
10 substances in the same, or similar, ratios may therefore be suitable for the devices of
   the invention.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be prepared by drying a
   slurry whose solid content comprises between about 35-95%, 40-90%, 45-85%, 50
15 80%, 55-75%, or 60-70% tobacco extract by weight. In some embodiments, the aerosol
   generating material may be prepared by drying a slurry whose solid content comprises
   about 65 %tobacco extract by weight.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be prepared by drying a
20 slurry whose solid content comprises between about 5-35%, 10-30%, or 15-25% binder
   by weight. In some of these embodiments, the binder may be sodium alginate. In some
   embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be prepared by drying a slurry
   whose solid content comprises about 20% binder by weight. In some of these
   embodiments, the binder may be sodium alginate.
25
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be prepared by drying a
   slurry whose solid content comprises between about 5-20% or 10-15% aerosol
   generating agent by weight. In some of these embodiments, the aerosol generating
   agent may be glycerol. In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be
30 prepared by drying a slurry whose solid content comprises about 13% aerosol
   generating agent by weight. In some of these embodiments, the aerosol generating
   agent may be glycerol.
   Experiments have shown that aerosol generating material prepared by drying a slurry
35 whose solid content comprises about 65% tobacco extract by weight, 20 %sodium
   alginate by weight, and 13% glycerol by weight has properties suitable for use as the

                                                 18
   aerosol generating material in the devices of the invention. Details of these experiments
   are provided under the Examples section below. An aerosol generating material
   prepared by drying a slurry with this solid content, or similar, may therefore be suitable
   for the devices of the invention.
 5
   In some embodiments, additional ingredients may be included in the aerosol
   generating material for amelioration of sensory characteristics of the aerosols
   generated. In some cases, water, flavourings, casings, or substances which may be
   acidic or basic in character may alter the taste, flavour, and sensory impact of the
10 aerosol. In some embodiments, these additional ingredients may lead to a milder or
   mellow effect. In some embodiments, they may lead to more pronounced sensory
   effects.
   The aerosol generating material may be heated to any suitable temperature by the heat
15 source, such as an electrical resistance heating element, in the devices of the invention.
   The aerosol generating material may be heated to a particular temperature for the
   purpose of delivering a particular experience.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be heated to a temperature
20 sufficient to significantly increase the rate of evaporation and/or sublimation of a
   substance in the aerosol generating material, but insufficient to initiate combustion.
   This may be the case when the devices of the invention are heat-not-burn devices. In
   some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be heated to a temperature
   sufficient to initiate combustion. This may be the case when the device is a combustible
25 device.
   In some embodiments, the device may be configured to heat the aerosol generating
   material to a temperature of between about 50-400'C, 100-350'C, 150-350'C, 150
   330'C, or 180-300'C.
30
   The temperature to which the aerosol generating material is heated in the devices of the
   invention will depend on the properties of heat source. For example, an electrical
   resistance heating element heats the aerosol generating material in the devices of the
   invention. It does this by providing a conducting medium that resists the flow of
35 electricity and, in so doing, transduces electrical energy into thermal energy.

                                                 19
   One or more electrical resistance heating elements may be included in the devices of
   the invention. In embodiments wherein more than one heating element is included,
   each one may be the same or may be different.
 5 The electrical resistance heating element may comprise any suitable conducting
   medium. In some embodiments, the electrical resistance heating element comprises a
   metal or metal alloy. It may be advantageous for the electrical resistance heating
   element to comprise a metal or metal alloy because metals are excellent conductors of
   electricity and thermal energy.
10
   Suitable metals include but are not limited to: copper, aluminium, platinum, tungsten,
   gold, silver, and titanium. Suitable metal alloys include but are not limited to: nichrome
   and stainless steel. Stainless steel has been shown to be effective in experiments, as
   discussed in the Examples section below.
15
   In some embodiments, the metal or metal alloy may be coated in another material
   which is more resistant to corrosion than the metal or metal alloy. In some
   embodiments, this material may also be a metal or metal alloy, such as gold or silver.
20 An electrical resistance heating element used in the devices of the invention may have
   any suitable size and shape. In some embodiments, it may be advantageous for the
   shape of the heating element to have a large surface area to volume ratio in order to
   promote the dissipation of thermal energy, and the heating of the aerosol generating
   material. The heating element may have any suitable shape and may include, by way of
25 illustrative examples only: straight or linear wires; flat sheets; bent or curved wires, for
   example in the form of a coil or spiral; and shaped or non-flat sheets, for example
   folded sheets in the form of a zigzag or corrugated sheets. Sheets may be solid or
   include perforations, such as a sheet with one or more holes.
30 In some embodiments, at least part of the electrical resistance heating element is in the
   form of a mesh. In some embodiments, at least part of the heating element is in the
   form of a metal mesh. A mesh has a large surface area to volume ratio. A mesh also,
   advantageously, covers a large surface are with a small amount of material.
35 In embodiments wherein the heating element is a mesh or metal mesh, it may be flat or
   substantially flat. This flat mesh may have any suitable dimensions. In some

                                               20
   embodiments, it may be elongate or rectangular. In some embodiments, the flat mesh
   may be rectangular with a width of between about 0.3-2 cm, or 0.75-1.25 cm. In some
   embodiments, the flat mesh may be rectangular with a length of between about 3-6 cm,
   or 4-5 cm. In some embodiments, the flat sheet may be rectangular with a width of
 5 about 1 cm and a length of about 5 cm. In some embodiments, the mesh is narrow and
   elongate in form, like a ribbon or similar.
   In some embodiments wherein the heating element comprises a mesh, it may be
   substantially flat when incorporated into the devices of the present invention. In other
10 embodiments, the mesh may be wrapped so that it forms a wound configuration and, in
   some cases, the wound configuration may be cylindrical in shape.
   In some embodiments the aerosol generating material is coated onto a mesh to form a
   sheet. In some embodiments, the sheet is flat or substantially flat. In other
15 embodiments, the sheet is wrapped into a wound configuration. In some
   embodiments, the wound sheet may be unwound by the user of the device. In some
   embodiments, the sheet may be unwound in order to reveal fresh aerosol generating
   material which has not yet been heated. In some embodiments, the sheet may be
   unwound to reveal fresh aerosol generating material after the material which has
20 already been exposed has already been heated. This may increase the amount of
   material which can be heated and so extend the length of time over which the device
   may be used.
   In embodiments wherein the aerosol generating material is coated onto a mesh to form
25 a sheet, and wherein the sheet is wrapped into a wound configuration, the sheet may be
   wrapped around a spool. The spool may make it easier to unwind the sheet. In some
   embodiments, the spool may have a cylindrical shape.
   In some embodiments, the sheet may comprise portions of aerosol generating material
30 which may be independently heated. In some embodiments, the adjacent portions of
   the sheet, comprising the aerosol generating material and electrical resistance heating
   element, are separated by insulating means.
   In some embodiments, at least part of the electrical resistance heating element is in the
35 form of a coil. In some embodiments, at least part of the heating element is in the form
   of a metal coil.

                                                 21
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material is coated onto the surface or a
   least part of the surface of the coil.
   In some alternative embodiments, the coil or cylindrical heating element (for example,
 5 formed from a mesh) surrounds the aerosol generating material which is in a
   monolithic form. For example, the aerosol generating material may be extruded into a
   rod or cylinder form. In some embodiments, the heat source contacts the aerosol
   generating material to heat it. In such embodiments, the aerosol generating material
   may be moved and/or replaced to enable the heat source to heat fresh aerosol
10 generating material.
   In embodiments wherein the heating element comprises a metal mesh and/or metal
   coil an important property of the heating element may be the diameter or gauge of the
   individual strands of metal. This is because the diameter of the strands affects their
15 ability to conduct electricity and the heat which they dissipate when electricity passes
   through them. In some embodiments, the heating element may comprise metal strands
   whose diameter is most appropriate for the rate of heat generation which is desired in
   the devices of the invention. In some embodiments, a smaller diameter may be
   preferred over a larger diameter because a smaller diameter tends to emit heat at a
20 faster rate than a larger diameter when the same electric current passes through.
   The electrical conductivity and thermal conductivity of the heating element is crucial
   for its function. It may have any suitable electrical and thermal conductivity, as long as
   it is suitable for heating the aerosol generating material in the devices of the invention.
25
   In some embodiments, it may be advantageous for the heating element to have high
   electrical conductivity; in other embodiments, it may be advantageous for it to have low
   electrical conductivity. This is because the electrical conductivity of the heating element
   dictates the electric current generated at any given voltage, which itself dictates two
30 things: the rate at which the element emits heat, and the rate at which it consumes
   electricity.
   In embodiments wherein the heating element has high electrical conductivity, the rate
   of heat emission will be high and the rate of electricity consumption will be high. This is
35 because the current will be high, leading to the emission ofmore heat and the
   consumption of more electricity. In embodiments wherein the heating element has a

                                                 22
   low electrical conductivity, the rate of heat emission will be low and the rate of
   electricity consumption will be low. This is because the current will be low, leading to
   the emission of less heat and the consumption of less electricity.
 5 In some embodiments, the heating element may have an electrical conductivity most
   appropriate for the device into which it is incorporated, taking into account how much
   electricity is available and how fast heat needs to be transferred to the aerosol
   generating material.
10 An electric current of any suitable size may be passed through the heating element in
   the devices of the invention. In some embodiments, it may be advantageous to pass a
   high electric current through it because this will increase the rate of heat transfer to the
   aerosol generating material. In some embodiments, it may be advantageous to pass a
   low electric current through it because this will decrease the rate of electricity
15 consumption. In some embodiments, an electric current may be passed through the
   heating element with a magnitude of between about 0.3-8 A, 2-6 A, or 4-6 A.
   Any suitable means may be used to pass an electric current through the heating
   element in the devices of the invention. The heating elements may be constantly in
20 contact with the power source, or they may come into contact with the power source
   only when the device is in use and the aerosol generating material is to be heated. In
   other embodiments, the heating elements may be constantly in contact with the aerosol
   generating material, or they may come into contact with the aerosol generating material
   only when the device is in use and the aerosol generating material is to be heated.
25 Creating contact may involve the relative movement of the elements.
   In some embodiments, one or more batteries may be used to provide a potential
   difference and pass a direct electric current through the heating element. In these
   embodiments, one or more batteries may be connected to the heating element in any
30 suitable way, for example by using of wires and/or clips. In embodiments wherein more
   than one battery is used to provide more than one power supply, the batteries may be
   the same or may be different.
   A battery used in the devices of the invention may have any suitable properties. For
   example, it may be rechargeable or non-rechargeable and may be replaceable or non
35 replaceable.

                                                23
   A battery used in the devices of the invention may have any suitable voltage. In some
   embodiments, a battery with a high voltage may be preferred over a battery with a low
   voltage because this will generate a higher electric current and the metal mesh will emit
   heat at a higher rate. In some embodiments, a battery incorporated into the devices of
 5 the invention has a voltage of between about 0.5-10 V, 2-8 V, or 4-6 V.
   The voltage of a battery used in the devices may be chosen based on the size of the
   electric current which needs to pass through the heating element. In embodiments
   wherein the heating element has high electrical resistance, the battery may have a high
10 voltage; in embodiments wherein the heating element has low electrical resistance, the
   battery may have a low voltage.
   A battery used in the devices may have any suitable charge capacity. In some
   embodiments, a battery with a high charge capacity may be preferred over a battery
15 with a low charge capacity because this will allow the battery to deliver a potential
   difference for a longer period of time.
   One or more batteries may be connected to an electrical resistance heating element in
   the devices of the invention via any suitable electronic circuit. In some embodiments,
20 one or more batteries may be connected to more than one heating element in the
   device. In some embodiments, two or more heating elements may be provided with
   electricity from one or more batteries independently from one another. In some
   embodiments, two or more heating elements may be provided with electricity from one
   or more batteries sequentially.
25
   The manner and extent to which the aerosol generating material is in contact with the
   heating element will also have an effect on the generation of the aerosol and/or gas
   upon heating the aerosol generating material.
30 The aerosol generating material may contact the heating element in any suitable way,
   provided that the temperature of the heating element is sufficient to heat the aerosol
   generating material to form an aerosol. In at least some embodiments, the temperature
   is not so high so as to combust the aerosol generating material.
35 In some embodiments, the heating element may be at least partially embedded in, or
   coated by, the aerosol generating material. In some embodiments, the heating element

                                                24
   may be in the form of a mesh and the aerosol generating material may be coated onto
   the mesh. In some embodiments, the heating element may be in the form of a coil and
   the aerosol generating material may be coated onto the coil.
 5 In some embodiments, it may be advantageous for the majority or whole of the heating
   element to be embedded in, or coated by, the aerosol generating material because this
   will improve the efficiency of heat transfer from the heating element to the aerosol
   generating material.
10 In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be at least partially
   surrounded by the heating element. In some of these embodiments, some or all of the
   aerosol generating material in the devices of the invention may be in the form of a
   monolith. In embodiments wherein the aerosol generating material is in the form of a
   monolith, it may have been formed by a process comprising extrusion.
15
   In some embodiments, the heating element may be in the form of a mesh and may be
   wrapped around some or all of the aerosol generating material. In some embodiments,
   the heating element may be in the form of a coil and may be wrapped around some or
   all of the aerosol generating material. In some of these embodiments, some or all of the
20 aerosol generating material may be positioned at the centre of a metal coil.
   Referring to Figure 1, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
   provided a sheet 1 comprising aerosol generating material 3 coated onto a metal mesh 2
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. According to this
25 exemplary embodiment, the majority of the metal mesh 2 is embedded in the aerosol
   generating material 3.
   Referring to Figure 2, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
   provided a sectional view of the sheet 1 comprising aerosol generating material 3 cast
30 onto a metal mesh 2, as shown in Figure 1.
   Referring to Figure 3, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
   provided the sheet 1 comprising aerosol generating material 3 coated onto a metal
   mesh 2, as shown in Figure 1, and connected to a power source 4. In Figure 4, multiple
35 sheets 1 are shown connected to a power source 4, with switching mechanisms 5
   allowing the provision of electricity to each sheet I to be controlled.

                                                25
   Referring to Figure 5, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
   provided a coated coil 11. As shown in cross section in Figure 6, the coated coil 11
   comprises aerosol generating material 13 coated onto a metal coil 12 according to one
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
 5
   Referring to Figure 7, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
   provided a coated coil 11, as shown in Figure 5, connected to a power source 14. In
   Figure 8, multiple coils 11 are shown connected to a power source 14, with switching
   mechanisms 15 allowing the provision of electricity to each coil 11 to be controlled.
10
   Referring to Figure 9, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
   provided a monolith 21 of aerosol generating material with a metal mesh heating
   element 23 wrapped around it. The metal mesh heating element 23 is connected to a
   power source 24.
15
   Referring to Figure 10, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
   provided a monolith 3 1 of aerosol generating material with a metal coil heating element
   33 wrapped around it. The metal coil heating element 33 is connected to a power source
   34.
20
   In some embodiments, a first portion or section of the aerosol generating material may
   be heated by the heat source, such as an electrical resistance heating element,
   independently from a second portion or section of the aerosol generating material. In
   some of these embodiments, the first portion of the aerosol generating material may
25 have a different chemical composition compared to the second portion of the aerosol
   generating material. This may allow for different aerosols and/or gases to be generated
   in the devices of the invention.
   In some embodiments, different portions of the aerosol generating material may be
30 able to generate different flavours, and/or provide different sensory experiences.
   In some embodiments, the different portions of the aerosol generating material may be
   heated independently and/or sequentially. In some embodiments, the user of the
   device may be able to initiate and/or control which of the portions is heated, and so
   which aerosols and/or gases are generated.
35

                                                 26
   In some embodiments of the invention, at least some of the aerosol generating material
   must be moved from a first position to a second position in the device in order to be
   heated by the heat source. In some of these embodiments, the aerosol generating
   material may be moved at the volition of the user of the device. In some embodiments,
 5 the movement will bring the electrical resistance heater into contact with a power
   source.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material comprises two or more portions
   and the aerosol generating material may be moved in order to facilitate the sequential
10 heating of two or more portions of the aerosol generating material. For example, the
   movement may bring the electrical resistance heater associated with any given portion
   of aerosol generating material into contact with a power source.
   In some embodiments, the electrical resistance heating element comprises two or more
15 parts which are independently powered, to allow the portions of the aerosol generating
   material associated with those different parts of the heating element to be heated
   independently and/or sequentially. In some embodiments, the different parts of the
   electrical resistance heating element are independently powered by virtue of the parts
   having separate power sources, such as separate batteries. In some embodiments, the
20 different parts of the electrical resistance heating element are independently powered
   by virtue of one or more switches linking the parts to a single power source.
   Referring to Figure 15, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
   provided a ribbon 41 comprising aerosol generating material cast onto a mesh acting as
25 an electrical resistance heating element. The ribbon 41 comprises multiple portions 42
   and is movable. The portions 42 are separated by an insulating means 43, such as an
   insulating strip, and each portion comprises a section of aerosol generating material
   encasing a section of heating element. The movement of the ribbon 41 sequentially
   brings a section of heating element into contact with the power source 44, for example a
30 battery. This powers the heating element, heating the portion of aerosol generating
   material in contact with that portion of the heating element. The ribbon 41 must be
   moved to heat a new portion of the ribbon, bringing a new section of heating element
   into contact with the power source to heat the new section of aerosol generating
   material.
35

                                                 27
    The ribbon 41 is wrapped around two spools 45, 46 one of which may be driven to move
    the ribbon. In some embodiments, the drive spool 46 may be turned manually. In
    other embodiments, it may be driven by a motor 47. Thus, the ribbon 41 and spools 45,
    46 form a cartridge or "cassette"48. The drive spool 46 may be rotated to wind the
  5 ribbon 41 onto the drive spool 46, resulting in the ribbon 41 being unwound from the
    other spool 45. In this way, the ribbon 41 may be moved, moving different portions 42
    into alignment and/or contact with the power source 44.
    Referring to Figure 16, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
10  provided a device according to one exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
    The device 52 comprises a cartridge 57 as shown in Figure 15, comprising a ribbon 51
    and spools 55, 56. The device further comprises a power source 54, control circuitry 53
    to control the independent and sequential heating of the sections of the ribbon 51, and a
    cassette motor drive unit 58, which drives the drive spool 56. The device further
 15 comprises an aerosol formation chamber 61 in which aerosol from the heated aerosol
    generating material may form and be inhaled via a mouthpiece 59 of the device. The air
    flow through the device 52 is illustrated by the arrows. Ambient air enters via vents in
    the body or housing 60 of the device 52, flows past the cassette and the aerosol
    generating material being heated, picking up the gas and vapour generated by the
20  heating. Then the air flow moves into the aerosol formation chamber 61 where the
    aerosol is formed. The aerosol, carried by the air flow, then exits the device via the
    mouthpiece 59. In some embodiments, the air flow may be generated by drawing or
    puffing on the device 52.
25  Referring to Figure 17, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
    provided an overview of the electronic circuitry used to control the generation of heat
    by the heat source in a device, such as the device shown in Figure 16. A temperature
    regulator is included to prevent the heating elements becoming too hot. The circuitry
    provides for indicators to indicate various properties of the electronic device.
30
    The aerosol generating material may be contacted by the electrical resistance heating
    element and incorporated into an aerosol generating device to form the devices of the
    invention in any suitable way.
35  In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material may be contacted by the heating
    element before being incorporated into an aerosol generating device. In some

                                                 28
   embodiments, the aerosol generating material and heating element may be put into a
   device by the user. In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material and the
   heating element may be provided in a cartridge, and the cartridge may be inserted into
   a device. In some of these embodiments, this cartridge may be replaceable.
 5
   In embodiments wherein the aerosol generating material and the heating element are
   provided in a cartridge, the cartridge may have any suitable structure.
   In some embodiments, the cartridge may comprise one or more areas on its surface for
10 connecting the heating element of the cartridge to a power source in the device. In some
   embodiments, these areas may be covered by a cover, such as a cap, when the cartridge
   has not been added to the device. In some embodiments, the cartridge may comprise
   one or more orifices for the passage of air, gas, and/or aerosol. In some embodiments,
   these orifices may be covered by a cover, such as a cap, when the cartridge has not been
15 added to the device.
   In embodiments wherein the aerosol generating material and the heating element are
   provided in a cartridge, the cartridge may be combined with other parts of the aerosol
   generating device in any suitable way. In some embodiments, it may be attached to
20 other parts of the device by friction fit and/ or screw fit and/ or press fit.
   Referring to Figure 11, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
   provided a cartridge 10 1 according to one embodiment of the invention. This comprises
   three electrical resistance heating elements 102, which are coated with an aerosol
25 generating material (not shown). These may be heated independently and sequentially.
   The cartridge 101 comprises air orifices 103. The cartridge optionally comprises two
   end caps 105, 106, which may be screwed or pressed into position on the ends of the
   cartridge 101. The end caps 105, 106 cover the electrical contacts of the heating
   elements 102 and the air orifices or vents 104.
30
   Referring to Figure 12, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is shown
   a cartridge 101 (as shown in Figure 11) incorporated into a device 110 according to one
   embodiment of the invention. The device 110 comprises a power source 111, such as a
   battery. The device 110 also comprises control circuitry 112 to control the independent
35 and sequential heating of the heating elements 102 in the cartridge 10 1. The device 110
   further comprises an aerosol formation chamber 113 in which aerosol from the aerosol

                                                  29
    generating material may form and be inhaled via a mouthpiece 114 of the device. The
    air flow through the device 110 is illustrated by the arrows. Ambient air enters via vents
    in the body or housing 115 of the device 110, flows past the cartridge 101 and the aerosol
    generating material being heated, picking up the gas and vapour generated by the
  5 heating. Then the air flow moves into the aerosol formation chamber 113 where the
    aerosol is formed. The aerosol, carried by the air flow, then exits the device 110 via the
    mouthpiece 114. In some embodiments, the air flow may be generated by drawing or
    puffing on the device 110.
10  Referring to Figure 13, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is shown
    a cartridge 101 (as shown in Figure 11) incorporated into the device 110 shown in Figure
    12. The end caps 105, 106 are removed from the cartridge 10 1 before the cartridge 101 is
    inserted into the device 110 by a screw fit or a clamp fit mechanism.
 15 Referring to Figure 14, for the purpose of illustration and not limitation, there is
    provided an overview of the electronic circuitry used to control the generation of heat
    by the heating elements in the device, such as the device shown in Figure 12. A
    temperature regulator is included to prevent the heating elements becoming too hot.
    The circuitry provides for indicators to indicate various properties of the electronic
20  device.
    The aerosol generating devices of the invention may comprise any suitable components
    in addition to the aerosol generating material and the heat source, which may, for
    example, be an electrical resistance heating element.
25
    In some embodiments, the devices may comprise an actuator, wherein the actuator
    may be actuated to initiate the heat source. In some embodiments, the actuator may
    initiate the passing of electricity through at least part of an electrical resistance heating
    element to generate heat. In some of these embodiments, the actuator maybe, or be
30  connected to, a switch in an electrical circuit. Alternatively or in addition, the actuator
    may be, or be connected to, an element for controlling the position of the aerosol
    generating material and/or heating element in the device.
    In some embodiments, in addition or as an alternative to the device having an actuator,
35  the heat source, such as an electrical resistance heating element, may be initiated when
    a pressure gradient is produced within the device. This pressure gradient may, for

                                                30
   example, be produced when puffing on or inhaling through the device. In some
   embodiments, the electrical resistance heating element may be heated when puffing or
   inhaling.
 5 In some embodiments, the device may comprise an indicator, wherein the indicator
   indicates one or more properties of the heating element and/ or aerosol generating
   material. For example, the device may comprise an indicator for indicating the
   temperature of the electrical resistance heating element and/ or aerosol generating
   material. For example, the device may comprise an indicator for indicating the extent to
10 which the aerosol generating material has released an aerosol and/or gas.
   In some embodiments, the device may comprise temperature controlling feedback
   circuitry to regulate the temperature of the heating element. This may be used to
   provide the optimum temperature for aerosol generation by heating.
15
   In some embodiments, the device may comprise an insulating layer between the
   outside of the device and the electrical resistance heating element.
   Any suitable process may be used to provide an aerosol generating material in contact
20 with a heat source. In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material is separate
   to the heat source, and is brought into physical contact either upon assembly of the
   devices of the invention or upon use thereof. For example, in some embodiments, the
   aerosol generating material is provided in a monolithic form which is brought into
   contact with the heat source. To maximise the contact between the aerosol generating
25 material and the heat source, the heat source may partially surround the aerosol
   generating material, contacting its outer surface. The monolithic form of the aerosol
   generating material may be formed by casting or extrusion or any other suitable
   method.
30 In other embodiments, the aerosol generating material and heat source are combined,
   for example in the form of a composite article. In such embodiments, the heat source
   may be coated with and/or embedded in aerosol generating material.
   According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for
35 fabricating the aerosol generating devices of the invention, wherein the method
   comprises applying a slurry of aerosol generating material to a heat source, such as an

                                                31
   electrical resistance heating element. In some embodiments, this involves coating a
   slurry of aerosol generating material onto a heat source and/ or dipping the heat source
   into a slurry of aerosol generating material. In other embodiments, this involves
   extruding a slurry of aerosol generating material onto the heat source, or co-extruding
 5 the slurry of aerosol generating material with the heat source.
   Any suitable process or processes may be used to prepare the heat source and the slurry
   of aerosol generating material before combining them. In some embodiments, the heat
   source may be an electrical resistance heating element such as a metal mesh or coil. In
10 some embodiments, the aerosol generating material is formed from a slurry which is
   applied to the heat source and then allowed to dry. In some embodiments, the aerosol
   generating material, and the slurry used to prepare it, comprise a tobacco material.
   In some embodiments, the aerosol generating material is prepared by a method
15 comprising the formation of a slurry. To form the slurry, the components of the aerosol
   generating material may be added in any suitable order. In embodiments wherein the
   aerosol generating material comprises tobacco extract, water, sodium alginate, and
   glycerol, the tobacco extract may be added to the water before the addition of sodium
   alginate and then glycerol. In some embodiments, the slurry may undergo mixing
20 during and/or after the addition of its components and, in these embodiments, may
   undergo mixing for any suitable length of time. The length of time over which the slurry
   undergoes mixing will depend on its composition and volume, and may be varied
   accordingly. In some embodiments, the slurry may undergo mixing as necessary to
   make the composition of the slurry substantially homogeneous before being combined
25 with a heat source to form a composite article.
   In some embodiments, the slurry may be formed by first adding tobacco extract to
   water and mixing for about 30 seconds, before adding sodium alginate very slowly to
   prevent the slurry forming a vortex, mixing the composition for about 10 minutes, and
30 then adding glycerol. In some embodiments, the slurry may then undergo further
   mixing, and may undergo further mixing for any suitable length of time. In some
   embodiments, the slurry may undergo further mixing for about 1-20 minutes, such as
   about 5 minutes.
35 In some embodiments, the slurry of aerosol generating material may be formed by a
   process comprising adding one or more additives, such as flavourants.

                                               32
   Once the slurry of aerosol generating material has been prepared and, if appropriate,
   the heat source has been made or prepared, they are combined. In some embodiments,
   they may be combined by casting the slurry of an aerosol generating material onto the
   heat source and/ or dipping the heat source into the slurry. In some embodiments, they
 5 may be combined by extruding a slurry of aerosol generating material onto the heat
   source, or co-extruding the slurry of aerosol generating material with the heat source.
   In some embodiments, the heat source is an electrical resistance heating element, such
   as a mesh or coil.
10 In embodiments wherein the slurry of aerosol generating material is cast onto the heat
   source, the heat source may be placed onto a plate before the slurry is poured onto it. In
   some embodiments, the slurry may be poured onto the heat source so that it is evenly
   spread over the heat source with any suitable thickness or depth. In some
   embodiments, the slurry may be poured onto the heat source so that it has a thickness
15 or depth of about 0.5-5 mm, 0.6-4 mm, 0.7-3 mm, 0.8-2 mm, or 0.9-2 mm. In some
   embodiments, the slurry may be poured onto the heat source so that it is spread evenly
   and has a thickness or depth of about 1 mm.
   After being combined with the heat source, the slurry may be dried, and may be dried
20 using any suitable method of drying. In some embodiments, the slurry may be dried in
   warm air (i.e. an oven). In these embodiments, the slurry may be dried at any suitable
   temperature for any suitable length of time. In some embodiments, the slurry may be
   dried at a temperature of about 40-90'C, or 50-80'C. In some embodiments, the slurry
   may be dried at a temperature of about 60'C or 80'C. In some embodiments, the slurry
25 oftobacco material may be dried for about 30-120 minutes, or 60-120 minutes.
   In some embodiments, the slurry may be dried at a temperature of about 60'C for
   about 70 minutes. In other embodiments, the slurry may be dried at a temperature of
   about 80'C for about 110 minutes. Experiments have shown these conditions to result
30 in the fabrication of composite sheets with properties suitable for the devices of the
   invention.
   In embodiments wherein the slurry of aerosol generating material has been cast onto
   the heat source on a plate, the resulting composite structure may be removed from the
35 plate.

                                               33
   In some embodiments, the composite structure may be removed using an item for
   accessing the space between structure and the plate, such as a knife. Alternatively or in
   addition, the composite structure may be removed by increasing the temperature of the
   contact point between the structure and the plate, such as by using steam.
 5
   In some embodiments, the composite structure may be conditioned after being
   removed from the plate. In some embodiments, the composite structure may be
   conditioned at about a temperature of about 20-25'C, such as about 22'C. Alternatively
   or in addition, the composite structure may be conditioned in air with a relative
10 humidity of about 50-80%, such as about 60%. Alternatively or in addition, the
   composite structure may be conditioned for a length of time of about 6-24 hours, such
   as about 12 hours. In some embodiments, the composite structure may be conditioned
   at about 22'C in air with a relative humidity of about 60% for about 12 hours.
15 In some embodiments, the composite structure may then be stored at a temperature of
   about ambient temperature at any suitable humidity for any suitable length of time,
   before being incorporated into the device of the invention. This may help to strengthen
   the composite structure.
20 Once the slurry of aerosol generating material has been combined with the heat source,
   dried, conditioned, and stored, the resulting composite structure may be divided into
   separate portions. These separate portions may then be incorporated into one or more
   devices. In some of these embodiments, the composite structure may be in the form of a
   sheet or strip and may be cut into separate portions using any suitable method of
25 cutting. In other embodiments, the composite structure may be divided into portions by
   the inclusion of insulating means between adjacent portions, such as, for example,
   insulating strips.
   According to a third aspect of the invention, there is provided the use of a device
30 according to the invention for the generation of a gas and/ or aerosol comprising
   nicotine.
   In some embodiments, the devices may be used to generate a gas and/or aerosol which
   comprises one or more other substances besides nicotine. For example, the devices may
35 be used to generate a gas and/or aerosol which comprises one or more flavourants

                                                34
   and/or diluents. In some embodiments, the devices may be used to generate a nicotine
   containing aerosol with suitable sensory characteristics.
   In some embodiments, the device in use may be a heat not burn device.
 5
   According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided the use of an
   aerosol generating material as defined in the first aspect for the generation of an
   aerosol and/or gas, comprising nicotine, by heating in contact with a heat source, such
   as an electrical resistance heating element.
10
   According to a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a composite
   structure comprising a heat source, such as an electrical resistance heating element,
   which is at least partially embedded in, or coated by, the aerosol generating material as
   defined in the first aspect of the invention. Examples of such structures are illustrated
15 in Figures 1 and 5.
   According to a sixth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a cassette
   comprising a composite structure according to the fifth aspect of the invention, and a
   means for moving the composite structure to allow different portions thereof to be
20 heated. An example of such a cassette is illustrated in Figure 15. Such a cassette may,
   in some embodiments, be inserted into a device comprising a power source, such as a
   battery, and electrical connectors which will contact the composite structure.
   Examples
   In the Examples, "Solids" and "Solid(s) Content" refers to the whole of the extract or
25 slurry other than the water, and may include components which by themselves are
   liquid at room temperature and pressure, such as glycerol.
   In the Examples, Reverse Osmosis [RO] quality water refers to softened water which is
   additionally purified by reverse osmosis.
30
   Example 1: Tobacco Extraction and Extract Composition
   4.5 kg of cut rag Virginia tobacco blend was extracted with 80 kg water (Reverse
   Osmosis [RO] quality) at 60 0 C for 25-30 minutes with gentle agitation. The resulting
   mixture was filtered and the extract concentrated to the desired solids content range of

                                                35
   45-60% utilising an evaporative concentration process. Table 1 shows the composition
   of the resulting tobacco extract.
   Table 1
    Ingredient            %weight/weight
    Solids               53.10
    Nicotine             3.56
 5
   This tobacco extract was utilised to make an aerosol generating material as described in
   Example 2.
   Example 2: Aerosol Generating Material - Manufacturing Procedure and Composition
10 Making an aerosol generating material comprising a tobacco extract involved binding
   the tobacco extract with an aerosol generating agent, such as glycerol, utilising a
   hydrocolloid binding agent. The resulting gel was then coated onto a metal mesh
   heating element. The gel formed and set on the metal mesh by a combination internal
   cross-linking and drying, resulting in a layer of aerosol generating material applied to
15 or bound to the heating element.
   The aerosol generating material was prepared utilising the following procedure. Water
   (RO quality, 20 1 g) was added to tobacco extract (339 g, 53.1% solids content) in a high
   shear mixer. Sodium alginate powder (60 g) was slowly added to this mixture whilst
20 pulsing the high shear mixer to ensure even distribution of the alginate powder. To fully
   hydrate the alginate after the addition stage was completed, the high shear mixer was
   switched to continuous mixing for 10 minutes. During this process, the mixture
   thickened to form a gel-like consistency. Glycerol (37 g) was added to the slurry, and
   mixed for 5 minutes.
25
   The resulting material formed a thick but fluid slurry. The slurry solids content was
   43.49 %. This slurry was cast directly onto a stainless steel mesh, which was placed on
   a supporting metal plate to assist the casting process. The stainless steel mesh had
   strands of metal with an outer diameter of 0.17 mm, and a mesh size of 40. This was
30 placed in a pre-heated oven at 80 0 C for 113 minutes. The dried aerosol generating
   material was allowed to cool. It appeared as a coherent, cohesive sheet adhered to the
   metal mesh. The composition of the aerosol generating material is shown in Table 2.

                                               36
   Table 2
        Component             Component            Component            Material Solid
                               Weight (g)       Solid Content (g)        Composition
                                                                        (%dry weight)
       Tobacco Extract             339                  180                   64.98
           Alginate                 60                   60                   21.66
            Water                  201                    0                     0
           Glycerol                 37                   37                   13.36
             Total                 637                  277
   The aerosol generating material coated onto the steel mesh formed a composite sheet
   structure which was removed from the supporting plate, with steam assistance if
 5 required, utilising a cutting blade.
   Strips of the stainless steel mesh coated with aerosol generating material were cut to
   the following dimensions:
    1 cm width x 5 cm length
10  1 cm width x 3.5 cm length
   0.8 cm width x 5 cm length
   The aerosol generation capacity versus the electrical power applied, and temperatures
   attained using this composite material, were investigated in Example 3.
15 Example 3: Aerosol Generation Utilising Electrical Power
   The procedure involved applying electrical connector 'spring crocodile clips'to the
   peripheries of the coated stainless steel mesh and ensuring good electrical contact. The
   steel mesh acted as a heating element providing a heat source to the aerosol generating
   material, causing aerosol and/or gas formation. The electrical power source was a
20 HAMEG, HMP4030. The temperature of the heated coated stainless steel mesh was
   measured using a thermal imaging camera, FLUKE Ti32.
   Aerosol generation in this case was observed visually as a mist arising from the coated
   mesh. In addition an aroma reminiscent of wet, warm tobacco was detected. The
   electrical power applied and temperatures measured are presented in Table 3.

                                                 37
   Table 3
    Material                 Current (A)        Temperature (OC)        Observation
     1 cm width x 5 cm       4                  100 - 130               Visible aerosol
    length                                      Highest temperature     mist observed
                                                close to electrical
                                                contacts
     1 cm width x 3.5        5                  160 - 180               Visible aerosol
    cm length                                   Highest temperature     mist observed
                                                close to electrical
                                                contacts
    0.8 cm width x 5         3                  150 - 180               Visible aerosol
    cm length                                   Highest temperature     mist observed
                                                (ca. 213 0 C) close to
                                                electrical contacts
   Example 4: Tobacco Extraction, Manufacture of Aerosol Generating Material and
 5 Electrically Powered Aerosol Generation
   Herein is exemplified a procedure which describes a complete process of producing
   tobacco extract, the manufacture of an aerosol generating material from tobacco
   extract, and the electrically powered generation of an aerosol therefrom. The process
   comprises:
10
        (i) Preparation of a water extract from tobacco (Tobacco Extraction Procedure)
        (ii) Preparation of an aerosol generating material from the tobacco extract (Aerosol
        Generating Material Manufacture)
        (iii) Generation of an atmospheric aerosol from the aerosol generating material
15      utilising an electrically powered heating element (Atmospheric Aerosol Generation
        via Electrically Heated Element)
   In addition, the quantities of selected substances transferred from the aerosol
   generating material to produce the free atmospheric aerosol resulting by heating via the
20 electrically powered heating element have been measured, and an estimate of
   percentage transfer of the selected substances has been calculated.

                                                38
    Example 4 (i): Tobacco Extraction Procedure
    3.0kg of cut rag Burley tobacco blend was extracted with 80kg water (RO quality) at
    600 C for 25 - 30 minutes with gentle agitation. The resulting mixture was filtered and
    the extract concentrated to the desired solids content in the range of 45 - 60% utilising
  5 an evaporative concentration process. Table 4 shows the composition of the resulting
    tobacco extract.
    Table 4: Composition of Tobacco Extract
    Ingredient            %weight/weight
    Solids                41.80
    Nicotine              2.77
10  This material was utilised to make the tobacco extract based aerosol generating
    material as described in Example 4 (ii).
    Example 4 (ii): Aerosol Generating Material Preparation
 15 The principle utilised to make the aerosol generating material is similar to that
    described in Example 2.
    The tobacco extract based aerosol generating material was prepared utilising the
    following procedure.
20
    Tobacco extract (200.93 g, 41.8% solids content) was placed in a high shear mixer.
    Sodium alginate powder (27.7g) was slowly added to this mixture whilst pulsing the
    high shear mixer to ensure even distribution of the alginate powder. To fully hydrate
    the alginate after the addition stage was completed, the high shear mixer was switched
25  to continuous mixing for 10 minutes. During this process, the mixture thickened to
    form a gel-like consistency. Glycerol (20.62g) was added to the slurry, and mixed for 5
    minutes.
    The resulting material formed a thick but fluid slurry. The slurry solids content was
30  53.09%. The slurry was cast directly onto stainless steel mesh strips, which were placed
    on a supporting metal plate to assist the casting process. This was placed in a pre
    heated oven at 700 C for 290 minutes. The dried aerosol generating material was

                                               39
   allowed to cool. It appeared as a coherent, cohesive sheet adhering to the metal mesh.
   The composition of the aerosol generating material is shown in Table 5.
   Table 5: Composition of Tobacco Extract Aerosol Generating Material
       Component             Component          Component Solid         Material Solid
                             Weight (g)            Content (g)           Composition
                                                                        (%dry weight)
     Tobacco Extract            200.93                 84.00                  63.5
         Alginate                27.70                  27.70                 20.9
         Glycerol                20.62                 20.62                   15.6
           Total                249.25                 132.32
 5
   The aerosol generating material coated onto the steel mesh formed a structure which
   was removed from the supporting plate, with steam assistance if required, utilising a
   cutting blade.
10 This aerosol generating material was analysed for water, nicotine and glycerol content
   and the results are shown in Table 6.
   Table 6: Aerosol Generating Material Analysis
   Component        Nicotine        Nicotine         Glycerol        Glycerol       Water
                     (mg/g)          (mg/g)          (mg/g)          (mg/g)          (%)
                      WWB             DWB             WWB             DWB
                      25.67           31.95           87.51          108.89         19.64
15 Note: WWB: Wet Weight Basis; DWB: Dry Weight Basis
   Strips of wire mesh, of approximate dimensions 4.5cm length, 1.0 cm width were
   coated to demonstrate good coherence of the aerosol generating material to the wire
   mesh. However, these were not used for generating an aerosol in this experiment. To
   demonstrate the versatility of the material, the aerosol generating material was molded
20 around Nichrome wire coils which were designed to act as heating elements as an
   alternative format to stainless steel mesh heating elements. These elements were
   assembled in an aerosol generation test rig apparatus to investigate aerosol generation
   propensity as described in Example 4 (iii).

                                               40
   The aerosol generation capability of the aerosol generating material versus the
   electrical power applied and temperature attained was investigated.
   Example 4 (iii): Atmospheric Aerosol Generation via Electrically Heated Element
   The aerosol generation test rig apparatus used to assess aerosol generation propensity
 5 of the aerosol generating material in this Example comprised of a glass tube with
   removable glass end pieces into which penetrated two tungsten rods via glass to metal
   seal welds, which acted as electrodes. The equipment is illustrated in Figure 18 and
   component parts as follows:
10 201     Air intake
   202     Smoking machine or continuous draw pump
   203     Removable glass end piece: 40/38 ground glass joint connection
   204     Glass tube (19cm length x 3.5cm diameter)
   205     Heating element (coil geometry illustrated) coated with aerosol generating
15 material: connected to electrodes
   206     Electrodes (tungsten rods) penetrating glass via glass - metal seal welds
   207     Connectors to electrical power supply
   208     Cambridge filter holder with particle filter.
20 The aerosol generating material was assessed for aerosol generation propensity in two
   "smoking regimes":
   Run 1: 80 ml puff volume over 3 seconds every 30 seconds;
   Run 2: air continuously drawn over the heated coil coated with aerosol generating
   material at a rate of 2.5 1/s.
25 In both experimental runs, the specifications of the Nichrome wire and dimensions of
   the coil heating elements were the same, as indicated in Table 7.

                                                41
   Table 7: Nichrome Wire Specification and Heating Coil Dimensions
   Nichrome Wire Specification              Nickel (80%); Chromium (20%)
   Standard Wire Gauge (SWG)                35
                                            (0.2134 mm diameter)
   Length of Wire to Form Coil (cm)         50
   Coil Inner Diameter (mm)                 3.5
   Run 1
   The element, a coil ofnichrome wire of specification shown in Table 7, incorporated
 5 0.41 g of aerosol generating material deposited in contact with the heating coil wire.
   The procedure involved applying electrical connector 'spring crocodile clips'to the
   extremities of the nichrome coil incorporating the aerosol generating material (the
   extremities were not coated) ensuring a good contact. The glass end pieces were
   removed from the aerosol generation test rig apparatus and each extremity of the
10 aerosol generating material/electrically heated coil assembly secured to a respective
   tungsten electrode that penetrated the glass tube, such that good electrical contact
   resulted. The glass end caps were reassembled to the tube, and a Cambridge filter
   holder with particulate filter positioned as shown in Figure 18, to which a smoking
   machine was attached.
15 External to the glass tube, a power supply was connected to the tungsten rods
   protruding outside the glass tube in order to supply electrical power to heat the coil and
   aerosol generating material located inside the glass tube (Figure 18).
   The electrical power source was a Weir Model 413D. The temperature of the heated
   coated coil was measured using a thermal imaging camera (FLUKE Ti32).
20 The smoking engine was switched on to draw air through the apparatus. The electrical
   power was switched on and the current and temperature at the surface of the aerosol
   generating material were measured and recorded. During the inter-puff period (30
   seconds) a white dense opaque aerosol was generated in the apparatus enclosure within
   which the aerosol generating material/heating coil assembly was housed, and was seen
25 to be escaping from the open end of the test rig. The quantity of aerosol generated was
   estimated by analyzing the deposition on the inside surfaces of the test rig glass tube

                                                  42
   and that trapped on a Cambridge filter pad (within a Cambridge filter holder) through
   which the aerosol was drawn via the smoking engine. The experiment was designed
   specifically to measure the aerosol deposited on the Cambridge filter pad and did not
   assess any penetration through the filter pad. The data for the quantities of selected
 5 substances in the resulting aerosol generated are shown in Table 8.
   Table 8: Quantities of Aerosol Substances Generated
          Sample              Nicotine (mg)          Glycerol (mg)           Water (mg)
           Aerosol                   5.04                 13.81                   20.70
   Table 9 below indicates the percentage transfer of nicotine, glycerol and water from the
   aerosol generating material to the aerosol following the application of electrical power,
10 together with the current passed and the surface temperature of the aerosol generating
   material encasing the electrically heated coil element.
   Table 9: Percentage Transfer of Selected Substances to Form Aerosol
      Aerosol       Current            Measured                 Percentage Transfer of
    Generating      Applied         Temperature at              Analytes from Aerosol
     Material           (A)       Surface of Aerosol            Generating Material to
    Weight (g)                  Generating Material                       Aerosol
                                           ( 0 C)
                                                            Nicotine       Glycerol     Water
   0.41             0.5                      85                47.9          38.5         25.7
   It should be noted that, in this run, the aerosol deposits on the walls were included in
15 the analysis. However, a proportion of the analytes may be in the gas phase and hence
   may penetrate the Cambridge filter, which is designed to trap particle phase aerosol
   components. Also, some aerosol was seen escaping from the open end of the test rig.
   These factors would result in a lower measurement of aerosol analyte levels, and hence
   a lower estimation of the transfer from the aerosol generating material on heating.
20

                                                43
   Run 2
   The element, a coil ofnichrome wire of specification shown in Table 7 (the same as in
   Run 1), incorporated 0.48 g of aerosol generating material deposited in contact with
   the heating coil wire.
 5 The same rig and procedure used in Run 1 were performed in Run 2, with the exception
   of a continuous suction mode of2.5 L/s of air over the aerosol generating
   material/heating coil assembly. Using this procedure, the aerosol was drawn onto the
   Cambridge filter pad trapping the aerosol. The data from Run 2 are shown in Table 10.
   Table 10: Quantities of Aerosol Substances Generated
          Sample               Nicotine (mg)         Glycerol (mg)           Water (mg)
           Aerosol                   5.39                 12.46                  13.63
10
   Table 11 below indicates the percentage transfer of nicotine, glycerol and water from the
   aerosol generating material to the aerosol following the application of electrical power,
   together with the current passed and the surface temperature of the aerosol generating
   material encasing the electrically heated coil element.
15 Table 11: Percentage Transfer of Selected Substances to Form Aerosol
      Aerosol       Current             Measured               Percentage Transfer of
    Generating      Applied         Temperature at              Analytes from Aerosol
     Material           (A)       Surface of Aerosol            Generating Material to
    Weight (g)                  Generating Material                     Aerosol
                                           (OC)
                                                            Nicotine      Glycerol     Water
   0.48             0.5                     97                 43.7         29.7         14.5
   It should be noted that, in this run, the aerosol deposits on the walls were not included
   in the analysis. Also, a proportion of the analytes may be in the gas phase in addition to
   the particle phase and hence may penetrate the Cambridge filter, which is designed to
20 trap particle phase aerosol components. These two factors would result in a lower

                                                 44
   measurement of aerosol analyte levels, and hence a lower estimation of the transfer
   from the aerosol generating material on heating.
   Discussion of Example 4
   It can be seen that there is a substantial transfer of nicotine and glycerol from the
 5 aerosol generating material to form a free aerosol on application of electrical power
   heating to the heating element coil in both runs, even utilizing analytical techniques
   which potentially result in lower estimates. This shows conclusively that electrically
   powered heating applied to the aerosol generating material is sufficient to produce an
   aerosol with high nicotine and glycerol content. The data indicated that under these
10 conditions, despite both substances having high boiling points, the transfer of nicotine
   is shown to exceed that of glycerol in both runs.
   In order to address various issues and advance the art, the entirety of this disclosure
   shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed invention may
15 be practiced and provide for superior aerosol generating devices. The advantages and
   features of the disclosure are of a representative sample of embodiments only, and are
   not exhaustive and/ or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and
   teach the claimed features. It is to be understood that advantages, embodiments,
   examples, functions, features, structures, and/or other aspects of the disclosure are not
20 to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on
   equivalents to the claims, and that other embodiments may be utilised and
   modifications may be made without departing from the scope and/or spirit of the
   disclosure. Various embodiments may suitably comprise, consist of, or consist
   essentially of, various combinations of the disclosed elements, components, features,
25 parts, steps, means, etc. In addition, the disclosure includes other inventions not
   presently claimed, but which may be claimed in future.

                                                 45
   Claim s
   1.        A device for generating an inhalable aerosol and/or gas, the device
   comprising an aerosol generating material having an integrated electrical resistance
 5 heating element at least partially embedded therein, so that the aerosol generating
   material may be heated in direct contact with the electrical resistance heating element,
   wherein the aerosol generating material is provided as a unitary structure and/or
   coating which may be heated to generate multiple deliveries of an inhalable aerosol
   and/or gas;
10         wherein the aerosol generating material is a cast or extruded material; and
           wherein at least part of the electrical resistance heating element is in the form of
   a mesh.
   2.        A device according to claim 1, wherein the aerosol generating material
   comprises nicotine.
15 3.        A device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the aerosol
   generating material comprises an aerosol generating agent.
   4.        A device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the aerosol
   generating material comprises tobacco material.
   5.        A device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the aerosol
20 generating material comprises an inorganic filler material.
   6.        A device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the aerosol
   generating material comprises a binder.
   7.        A device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least part
   of the aerosol generating material is at least partially surrounded by the electrical
25 resistance heating element.
   8.        A device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a first portion
   of the aerosol generating material may be heated independently from a second portion
   of the aerosol generating material by the electrical resistance heating element; and

                                                 46
   optionally wherein the first portion and the second portion have different chemical
   compositions.
   9.          A device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least one
   portion of the aerosol generating material must be moved from a first position to a
 5 second position in order to be heated by the electrical resistance heating element.
   10.         A device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the heating
   of the aerosol generating material by the electrical resistance heating element is to be
   initiated and/or controlled by the user of the device.
   11.         A device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the device is
10 a heat-not-burn device.
   12.         A method for fabricating a device for generating an inhalable aerosol and/or
   gas according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method comprises
   applying a slurry of aerosol generating material to an electrical resistance heating
   element wherein the slurry is applied by casting the slurry onto the electrical resistance
15 heating element or wherein the slurry is extruded with or onto the electrical resistance
   heating element; and wherein at least part of the electrical resistance heating element
   is in the form of a mesh.
   13.         Use of a device according to any one of claims 1 to 11 for the generation of
   an aerosol and/or gas comprising nicotine.
20 14.         A composite structure comprising an electrical resistance heating element,
   which is at least partially embedded in, or coated by, an aerosol generating material,
   wherein the material is in direct contact with the electrical resistance heating element
   and may be heated to generate multiple deliveries of an inhalable aerosol and/or gas
   and wherein the aerosol generating material is a cast or extruded material, and wherein
25 the aerosol generating material is as defined in any one of claims 1 to 11; and wherein
   at least part of the electrical resistance heating element is in the form of a mesh.
   15.         A composite structure as claimed in claim 14, wherein the structure may be
   moved to heat different portions of the structure; and/or wherein different portions of
   the structure may be heated independently by separate power sources or by switching

                                               47
  the supply of power from one portion to another; and/or wherein the composite
  structure is in the form of an elongate ribbon or band.
  16.       An article comprising a composite structure as claimed in claim 14 or claim
  15, and a means for moving the composite structure to allow different portions thereof
5 to be heated.
  17.       An article as claimed in claim 16, wherein the composite structure is in the
  form of an elongate ribbon or band and the means for moving it is a spool.

                                      1/ 9
<removed-date>
              Figu re 1
                                  3
<removed-apn>
                                             2
                              1
              Figu re 2                          1
                                                     3
                          2

                                                  2/ 9
<removed-date>
              Figu re 3
                                                             1
                                                                       2
                                                                               3
<removed-apn>
                                   POWER CIRCUITRY
                                              4
              Figu re 4
                                         1
                               1
                          Heating Element 1                       Heating Element 2
                          Switching                               Switching
                                          SEQUENTIAL POWER CIRCUITRY
                           5                       4
                                                                           5

                               3/ 9
<removed-date>
              Figu re 5
                                      11
<removed-apn>
              Figu re 6
                                      11
                                       13
                          12

                                                4/ 9
<removed-date>
              Figu re 7
                                                       11
<removed-apn>
                          POWER CIRCUITRY
                                 14
              Figu re 8
                                                                            11
                                 1
                                 1
                          Heating Element 1                      Heating Element 2
                          Switching                              Switching
                                         SEQUENTIAL POWER CIRCUITRY
                            15                                         15
                                                  14

                                             5/ 9
<removed-date>
              Figu re 9
                                      23
<removed-apn>
                                                    21
                           POWER CIRCUITRY
                                 24
              Figu re 10
                                      33
                                                         31
                           POWER CIRCUITRY
                                34

                                        6/ 9
<removed-date>
              Figu re 11
                                                                101
                                       103                            104
<removed-apn>
                                       102          102
                                 102
                     105                                        106
                                                                            110
              Figu re 12
                                                          101
                                                   115
                                                                              114
              111                            102                  113
                           112

                                                  7/ 9
<removed-date>
              Figu re 13
                                                                                    101
                           105
<removed-apn>
                  110
                                                                                                106
              Figu re 14
                                                                         Status
                                                                       Indicator
                Power:                       Heating Element         Sequential
                Battery                      Power Actuator:         Switching
                                              Manual or Puff          Circuitry
                                                Activated
               Main Switch
                                                                           Heating Element 1
                 Status            Status      Status
                                                                           Heating Element 2
               Indicator         Indicator   Indicator
                                                                           Heating Element N
                                                         Heating Element
                                                                                    Heating Element
                                                           Temperature
                                                                                   Temperature Status
                                                            Regulator
                                                                                       Indicator
                                                          Feedback Loop

                                                      8/ 9
<removed-date>
              Figu re 15
                                                                                48
                                                41
                                      44                                  HEATING
                                                                          ELEMENT
<removed-apn>
                                  43
                           42
                                                                                  45
                                                             MOTOR
                                                             DRIVE LINK
                                                                                Heating Element/Motor
                                                             MOTOR
                                                                                Drive Synchronisation
                                      46                                        POWER CIRCUITRY
                                                      47
                                                                                        52
              Figu re 16
                                                              57
                54                                                        51
                                                                                                    59
                                                              60
                              53           58        56                    61
                                                                   55
                            Voltage
              Figu re 17

                                               9/ 9
<removed-date>
                                                 Heating Element/Motor
                                                  Drive Synchronisation
                Power:                   Heating Element         Cassette            Status
                Battery                  Power Actuator:        Motor Drive        Indicator
                                          Manual or Puff
                                            Activated
                              Voltage
<removed-apn>
               Main Switch                                        Cassette Heating
                              Selector                                Element
                 Status        Status      Status
               Indicator     Indicator   Indicator
                                                     Heating Element
                                                                               Heating Element
                                                       Temperature
                                                                              Temperature Status
                                                        Regulator
                                                                                  Indicator
                                                      Feedback Loop
              Figu re 18

