COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR TREATING METABOLIC
DISORDERS
ABSTRACT
Methods for improving the gastrointestinal tolerability of biguanide compounds and for treating
metabolic disorders and/or inducing weight loss in patients in need thereof, particularly in
individuals having a contraindication for treatment with biguanide compounds, are provided
comprising administering delayed release formulations of such biguanide compounds, including
metformin, targeted to the small intestine.

                                                 1
  COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR TREATING METABOLIC DISORDERS
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] The present invention relates generally to the treatment of metabolic disorders with
biguanide compounds, and to improving the gastrointestinal tolerability of such compounds,
by administering biguanide compounds to patients using delayed-release formulations.
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001a]         This application claims priority to US 13/345135 filed 6 January 2012, US
61/649171 filed 18 May 2012 and US 13/547022 filed 11 July 2012. This application is a
divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013207329 which is the Australian National
Phase application of PCT/US2013/020420. The entire content of each of these applications is
incorporated herein by reference.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]          Hyperglycemia, hyperglycemia, or high blood sugar, is a condition in which
an excessive amount of glucose, e.g., greater than about 125 mg/dL, circulates in the blood
plasma. Chronic hyperglycemia at levels that are more than slightly above normal can
produce a wide variety of serious complications over a period of years, including kidney
damage, neurological damage, cardiovascular damage, damage to the retina, or damage to the
feet and legs. Diabetic neuropathy may be a result of long-term hyperglycemia.
[0003]          Hyperglycemia may be caused by or associated with dysfunction of the
thyroid, adrenal, and pituitary glands, diseases of the pancreas, severe sepsis, and intracranial
diseases such as encephalitis, brain tumors, and meningitis. By far the most common cause of
chronic hyperglycemia is diabetes mellitus, which is widely considered by many to be a
looming health care epidemic. In diabetes mellitus, the hyperglycemia typically results from
low insulin levels (type I diabetes) and/or insulin resistance at the cellular level (type II
diabetes).
[0004]          Many type II diabetes medications are designed to lower blood glucose levels.
A first line drug of choice for the treatment of type II diabetes, and the most commonly
prescribed antidiabetic medication in the world, is metformin. In contrast to most diabetes
medications, hypoglycemia with metformin is rare; it is also weight neutral and is associated
with reduced cardiovascular events and reduced mortality.

                                               la
[0005]          Metformin (dimethylbiguanide) belongs to a class of biguanide drugs
developed based on a glucose-lowering extract containing guanidines from the Galega
officinalis plant. (Bailey & Turner Metformin. N Engl J Med. 1996 Feb 29;334(9):574-9;
Bailey et al. Metformin: its botanical background. Practical Diabetes Int. 2004;21(3): 115-7).
Originally synthesized as a

side product in 1921, (Werner E, Bell J. The preparation of methylguanidine, and of             pp
dimethylguanidine       by   the  interaction  of dicyanodiamide,      and   methylammonium     and
dimethylammonium chlorides respectively. J Chem Soc, Transactions. 1921;121:1790-5),
metformin and other biguanides were found to lower blood glucose in animals. Studies on the
glucose-lowering effects of metformin, phenformin and buformin in humans were published in
the 1950s.     At first, the greater potency of phenformin and buformin resulted in their more
widespread use; however, their association with lactic acidosis ultimately led to discontinuation
in most countries by the end of the 1970s.
[0006]       Metformin improves glucose tolerance in patients by lowering both basal and post
prandial plasma glucose. Metformin monotherapy generally lowers fasting blood glucose by
20% and HbAlc levels by approximately 1.5%. (Bailey & Turner, supra; DeFronzo &
Goodman Efficacy of metformin in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. The
Multicenter Metformin Study Group. NEngl JMed. 1995 Aug 31;333(9):541-9). Metformin has
also been shown to improve serum lipids, decreasing triglycerides, free fatty acids, and LDL
cholesterol and modestly increasing HDL-cholesterol. (Bailey & Turner, supra.)
[0007]       Metformin's antihyperglycemic effects have been postulated to result from a wide
variety of systemic biochemical interactions including, e.g., suppressing glucose production by
the liver, increasing insulin sensitivity, enhancing peripheral glucose uptake (by phosphorylating
GLUT-4 enhancer factor), increasing fatty acid oxidation, and/or decreasing absorption of
glucose from the gastrointestinal tract. (Hundal & Inzucchi Metformin: new understandings,
new uses. Drugs. 2003;63(18):1879-94). More recently, investigators have focused on its
apparent impact on the secretion of glucagon-like peptide- 1 (GLP- 1), apparently determining
that metformin does not act directly on L cells in the gut to induce GLP-1 secretion or enhance L
cell sensitivity to several known secretagogues. (Mulherin et al., Mechanisms underlying
metformin-induced secretion of glucagon-like peptide- 1 from the intestinal L cell.
Endocrinology 152:4610-19 (December 2011)). These investigators suggested that metformin
stimulates GLP-1 release through an indirect mechanism involving both muscarinic (M3)
receptor-dependent and Gastrin Releasing Peptide (GRP) pathways independent of intestinal L
cells, such that systemic bioavailability of metformin is critical to therapeutic efficacy.
                                                  -2-

[0008]       Unfortunately, however, systemic exposure of metformin still poses a serious risk of
lactic acidosis for several patient populations. Lactic acidosis is a potentially fatal metabolic
complication that occurs when lactic acid levels increase in the bloodstream. Accordingly,
metformin is contraindicated in people with any condition that could increase the risk of lactic
acidosis, including kidney disorders, lung disease, and liver disease. According to the prescribing
information, heart failure, in particular, unstable or acute congestive heart failure, also increases
risk of lactic acidosis with metformin. Thus, metformin remains unavailable to treat
hyperglycemia in patients with these contraindications.
[0009]       Moreover, conventional metformin formulations often produce dose-limiting adverse
gastrointestinal (GI) complications including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, headaches
and dyspepsia. Accordingly, patient administration is generally titrated upward over a period of
time to a maximum tolerated dose based in not insignificant part on any resulting patient-specific
adverse GI effects. Extended-release formulations have been developed in the hopes of
addressing this, but have not adequately resolved these problems.
[0010]       Clearly, there continues to be a need for better and safer compositions and methods
for delivering biguanide compounds that address these tolerability and safety concerns. Ideally,
these would also provide more effective treatment options for metabolic disorders in patients
having contraindications for metformin and/or other biguanides.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0011]       As demonstrated herein for the first time, the present inventors have surprisingly
discovered that the systemic bioavailability of biguanides such as metformin can be minimized
without compromising their therapeutic efficacy. Correspondingly, methods and compositions
are provided for the treatment of metabolic disorders in patients, including otherwise
contraindicated patient populations, by administering delayed-release (DR) formulations to
minimize the systemic bioavailability of the biguanide compound in the patient.
[0012]       Also demonstrated herein for the first time is the surprising finding that GI
complications typically resulting from biguanide administration can be dramatically reduced
using the subject compositions and methods. Accordingly, patient comfort and compliance is
                                                  -3-

greatly improved, as is therapeutic efficacy. Correspondingly, methods and compositions are
provided for improving the GI tolerability of, and/or reducing GI complications resulting from,
biguanide administration, by administering delayed-release formulations comprising a biguanide
compound to minimize the systemic bioavailability of the compound in the patient.
[0013]       The biguanide compounds of the disclosure may be administered to a subject in need
thereof to treat various metabolic disorders, including obesity, dislipidemia or other disorders of
lipid metabolism as well as hyperglycemic conditions and histopathological diseases associated
with hyperglycemia, including type II diabetes, prediabetes, gestational diabetes and polycystic
ovary syndrome. Particularly in view of the surprising and unexpected decoupling of systemic
bioavailability and therapeutic efficacy achieved herein, and consequent improvement in the
toxicity and safety profile, the effective use of biguanide compounds for prophylaxis and
prevention of such diseases and disorders, as well as for more general weight loss purposes in
overweight or mildly to severely obese individuals, is also explicitly contemplated.
[0014]       Accordingly, in one aspect, provided herein are methods of treating metabolic
disorders in a patient in need thereof, including contraindicated patients, comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide compound to said patient in a
delayed-release formulation, wherein said administration minimizes the systemic bioavailability
of the biguanide compound in the patient. In another aspect, methods of improving the GI
tolerability of biguanide compounds and/or reducing GI complications resulting from biguanide
administration are provided, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a
biguanide compound to a subject in a delayed-release formulation, wherein said administration
minimizes the systemic bioavailability of the biguanide compound in the patient. Suitable
biguanide compounds for use in the subject methods include, e.g., metformin, phenformin,
buformin or imeglimin, including analogs, salts, solvates, polymorphs, hydrates, N-oxides, and
prodrugs of such compounds.
[0015]       In preferred embodiments, the biguanide compound has a reduced relative
bioavailability of 70%, 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%, 20% or 10% in the subject delayed-release
formulation compared to a conventional immediate-release (IR) or extended-release (XR)
composition having the same amount of the biguanide compound. In particular embodiments,
administration of the subject delayed-release formulation minimizes the mean plasma AUC, the
                                                  -4-

mean plasma Cmax and/or the circulating plasma concentration of the biguanide compound in said
patient compared to an identical protocol administering an IR or XR formulation having the
same amount of the biguanide compound. In preferred embodiments, the biguanide compound is
metformin, the IR composition is Glucophage® and the XR composition is Glucophage® XR.
[0016]      In one embodiment, the mean plasma AUCO- 36 of the biguanide compound is less than
about 15,000 ng*h/mL or 14,000 ng*h/mL, preferably less than about 12,000 ng*h/mL, more
preferably less than about 11,000 ng*h/mL or 10,500 ng*h/mL, and most preferably less than
about 10,000 ng*h/mL when administered at 2000 mg total daily dose (TDD) or 1000 mg twice
a day (bis in die; abbreviated as "b.i.d" or "BID"). In another embodiment, the mean plasma
AUCO- 36 of the biguanide compound is less than about 10,000 ng*h/mL, preferably less than
about 9,000 ng*h/mL, more preferably less than about 8,000 ng*h/mL or 7,000 ng*h/mL, and
most preferably less than about 6,000 ng*h/mL or 5,000 ng*h/mL when administered at 1000 mg
TDD, 500 mg BID or lower effective doses.
[0017]      In one embodiment, the mean plasma Cmax of the biguanide compound is less than
about 1100 ng/mL, preferably less than about 1000 ng/mL, more preferably less than about 950
ng/mL, and most preferably less than about 900 ng/mL when administered at 2000 mg TDD or
 1000 mg BID. In another embodiment, the mean plasma Cmax of the biguanide compound is less
than about 800 ng/mL, preferably less than about 700 ng/mL, more preferably less than about
600 ng/mL, and most preferably less than about 600 ng/mL or 500 ng/mL when administered at
 1000 mg TDD, 500 mg BID or lower effective doses.
[0018]      In one embodiment, the resulting circulating plasma concentration of the biguanide
compound is below about 5 [tg/ml or 4 [tg/ml, preferably below about 3 [tg/ml or 2.5 [tg/ml,
more preferably below about 2 [tg/ml, 1 tg/ml, 0.5 [tg/ml, or 0.25 [tg/ml in the patient.
[0019]      The methods and compositions disclosed herein are particularly suitable for patients
having a contraindication for the biguanide compound, e.g, metformin, phenformin or buformin.
Such contraindication may be a hypoxic condition, impaired lactate clearance, and/or impaired
clearance of the biguanide compound, e.g., impaired metformin clearance.
[0020]      For example, in one embodiment, the methods disclosed herein may be used to treat a
patient who may have a hypoxic condition, such as but not limited to respiratory failure and heart
failure. In another embodiment, the patient may have impaired lactate clearance. In another
                                                 -5-

embodiment, the patient may suffer from liver failure, which may result in impaired lactate
clearance. In another embodiment, the patient may have impaired clearance of the biguanide
compound, which may be caused, e.g., by renal impairment and/or kidney disease. Accordingly,
in one embodiment the patient may have renal impairment. Such renal impairment may be
moderate or severe renal impairment, or endstage renal disease. In another embodiment, the
patient may have kidney disease, which may be chronic. In another embodiment, the patient
may have hyperglycemia, which may be chronic, and which may be caused by type II diabetes.
[0021]      Accordingly, provided herein are methods of treating a renally impaired subject
having diabetes, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide
compound, e.g., metformin, phenformin, buformin, or imeglimin, in a delayed-release
formulation to said subject. In certain embodiments, the subject has moderate renal impairment,
severe renal impairment, or end stage renal disease. In other embodiments, the subject has a
serum creatinine concentration of greater than 1.2 mg/dL when the subject is male, or has a
serum creatinine concentration of greater than 1.1 mg/dL when the subject is female. In another
embodiment, the subject has a decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) as compared to a
normal baseline level. In another embodiment, the subject has an increase in urinary protein as
compared to a normal baseline level.
[0022]      Also provided herein are methods of treating a diabetic subject having congestive
heart failure, a hypoxic state and/or advanced liver disease, comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide compound, e.g., metformin, phenformin,
buformin or imeglimin, in a delayed-release formulation to said subject.
[0023]      Another method of treating provided herein is a method of reducing the onset of
diabetes in a subject with pre-diabetes, comprising administering a therapeutically effective
amount of a biguanide compound, e.g., metformin, phenformin, buformin or imeglimin, in a
delayed-release formulation to said subject.
[0024]      Also provided herein are methods of inducing weight loss in a subject, comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide compound in a delayed-release
formulation to said subject. In some embodiments, the weight loss induced results in over 5
pounds lost in the subject, e.g., over 10 pounds lost, preferably over 25 pounds lost, and even
more preferably over 50 pounds lost. In other embodiments, the induced weight loss results in
                                                -6-

the subject having a body mass index between 18.5 and 24.9. In another embodiment, the weight
loss induced results in at least a loss of at least 0.5 inches in the waist circumference.
[0025]      Administration of the subject formulations may be twice daily (b.i.d.), in the morning
and evening, or once daily (omni in die, abbreviated as "OD"). In certain preferred
embodiments, administration may be once daily in the morning, e.g., before 1 pm, preferably
before 12 noon or 11 am, more preferably before 10 or 9 am, or with the morning meal. In other
preferred embodiments, administration may be once daily in the evening, e.g., after 5 pm, more
preferably after 6 pm or 7 pm, or with the evening meal. In another preferred embodiment,
administration may be once daily at bedtime.
[0026]      The subject methods administer therapeutically effective amounts of the biguanide
compound(s). Notably, however, the inventive methods provided herein advantageously allow
for lower therapeutic doses than prior art formulations, both on a per unit basis and/or on a daily
dose basis. In certain embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, the biguanide compound is
administered twice daily in an oral dosage form at a per unit dose greater than 500 mg BID, e.g.
600 or 800 mg BID. In certain preferred embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, the twice
daily oral dosage is less than 500 mg BID, e.g., less than 400 mg BID, e.g., less than 300 mg
BID, e.g., about 150, 200 or 250 mg BID. In alternative preferred embodiments, the biguanide
compound is administered once a day at a per unit dose of 75 mg OD, 125 mg OD, 250 mg OD,
300 mg OD, 500 mg OD, 600 mg OD, 750 mg OD, 800 mg OD. or 1000 mg OD. In additional
embodiments, the total daily dose (TDD) of the biguanide compound is less than 2000 mg/day,
preferably less than 1500 mg/day, more preferably less than 1000 or 750 mg/day, most
preferably less than 500, 400, 300, or 200 mg/day.
[0027]      In any of the methods disclosed herein, the delayed-release formulations may be
enterically coated. In one embodiment, the biguanide compound is targeted for delivery to the
small intestine, and the formulation comprises an oral dosage form enterically coated at a pH at
or above 5.0, 5.5, or 6.0, e.g., a pH 5.0 enteric coating, a pH 5.5 enteric coating, a pH 6.0 enteric
coating, a pH 6.5 enteric coating, or a pH 7.0 enteric coating, or combinations thereof. In
another embodiment, the oral dosage form may further comprise an extended-release component
for the biguanide compound. In preferred embodiments, the biguanide compound is targeted for
                                                    -7-

delivery to the distal small intestine, and the formulation comprises an oral dosage form
enterically coated at a pH at or above 6.0 or 6.5.
[0028]       In the methods disclosed herein, the biguanide compound may be or comprise
metformin, a metformin salt, solvate, polymorph, hydrate, N-oxide or prodrug. In preferred
embodiments, the biguanide compound is a metformin salt selected from the group consisting of
hydrochloride, phosphate, sulfate, hydrobromide, salicylate, maleate, benzoate, succinnate,
ethanesulfonate, fumarate, glycolate, palmoate, oratate, acetate, isobutyrate, acetylsalicylate,
nicotinic acid, adamantoate, zinc-chlorophylin, carboxylic acid, benzoic acid, dichloroacetic
acid, theophylin-7-acetate, clofibrate, tartate, oxalate, tannate and hydroxyl acid. In a
particularly preferred embodiment, the biguanide compound is metformin hydrochloride.
[0029]       The methods disclosed herein may also further comprise the administration of an
immediate-release, extended release or delayed-release formulation of one or more additional
therapeutic agents, e.g., a DPP-IV inhibitor (e.g., sitagliptin, saxagliptin, berberine, vildagliptin,
linagliptin, alogliptin, and the like), a chemosensory receptor ligand (e.g., a sweet receptor
ligand, bitter receptor ligand, umami receptor ligand, sour receptor ligand, fat receptor ligand or
bile acid receptor ligand), an anti-obesity or anti-diabetes agent, or a chemosensory receptor
antagonist, e.g., lactisole. Non-limiting examples include embodiments further comprising the
administration of 100 mg sitagliptin OD, or 50 mg sitagliptin BID. The delayed-release
formulation can be a bilayer tablet, or a capsule with the two components as encapsulated mini
tablets. The delayed-release formulation may also further comprise an immediate release
component that has a pH 5.0 enteric coating for the additional therapeutic agent.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0030]       FIG. 1 shows the design of the study described in Example 1.
[0031]       FIG. 2 shows the events during the treatment period of the study described in
Example 1.
[0032]       FIG. 3 shows the plasma concentration of metformin immediate-release (Metformin
IR) (e) and metformin delayed-release (Metformin DR) (m) (x-axis; ng/mL) as a function of time
(y-axis; min) after ingestion at t = -240 and after a meal at t = 0 min.
                                                  -8-

[0033]      FIG. 4A shows the plasma concentration of PYY (x-axis; pg/mL) as a function of
time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline (m,o) or after ingestion of either Metformin IR (e) or
Metformin DR (m) and after a meal at t = 0 min. FIG.4B shows the plasma concentration of
active GLP-1(x-axis; GLP-1A pmol/L) as a function of time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline
(m,o) or after ingestion of either Metformin IR (e) or Metformin DR (m) and after a meal at t = 0
min. FIG. 4C shows the plasma concentration of total GLP-1 (x-axis; GLP-lT pmol/L) as a
function of time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline (,o)   or after ingestion of either
Metformin IR (e) or Metformin DR (m)and after a meal at t = 0 min. For FIGs 4A-4C, percent
increase in Abs AUC is compared to baseline values.
[0034]       FIG. 5A shows the plasma concentration of glucose (x-axis; mg/dL) as a function of
time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline (m,o) or after ingestion of either Metformin IR (0) or
Metformin DR (m) and after a meal at t = 0 min. FIG. 5B shows the plasma concentration of
insulin (x-axis; pmol/L) as a function of time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline (m,o) or after
ingestion of either Metformin IR (e) or Metformin DR (m)and after a meal at t = 0 min. For
FIGs 5A-5B, percent decrease in Abs AUC is compared to baseline values.
[0035]      FIG. 6 is a graph that shows the area under the curve of PYY (x-axis; log
transformed) as a function of the area under the curve of metformin (ng/mL*min) after ingestion
of Metformin IR (e) and Metformin DR (m).
[0036]      FIG. 7A shows the plasma concentration of Metformin IR (e) and Metformin DR (0)
(x-axis; ng/mL) as a function of time (y-axis; min) after ingestion at t = -240 and after a meal at
t = 0 min. FIG. 7B shows the plasma concentration of PYY (x-axis; pg/mL) as a function of
time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline (m,o) or after ingestion of either Metformin IR (0) or
Metformin DR (m) and after a meal at t = 0 min.
[0037]      FIG. 8 shows the mean plasma metformin concentrations (x-axis; ng/mL) at Day 5 of
500 mg (+) and 1000 mg (m)Metformin DR, 1000 mg Metformin IR (o) , and 500 mg
Metformin IR + 1000 mg Metformin DR (A) as a function of time (y-axis; min). Dose was
administered at t = -1 minute.
[0038]      FIG. 9 shows the steady-state relative bioavailability in subjects with type 2 diabetes
of 500 mg BID and 1000 mg BID of Metformin DR compared to 1000 mg BID of Metformin IR
based on the 11 hour plasma metformin AUC on Day 5 (y-axis; %AUC(on11y)). These levels
                                                 -9-

constitute a 45% and 57% reduction in the overall plasma metformin extent of exposure for 500
mg BID and 1000 mg BID of Metformin DR compared to 1000 mg BID of Metformin IR.
[0039]      FIG. 10 shows the mean plasma PYY total concentrations (x-axis; pg/mL) as a
function of time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline (o) or Day 5 of the designated treatment
(0).
[0040]      FIG. 11 shows the mean plasma GLP-1 active concentration (x-axis; pmol/L) as a
function of time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline (o) or Day 5 of the designated treatment
(e). Breakfast was administered at t = 0 min, dose was administered at t = -1 minute, and lunch
was administered at t = 300 min.
[0041]      FIG. 12 shows the mean plasma glucose concentration (x-axis; mg/dL) as a function
of time (y-axis; min) in subjects at baseline (o) or Day 5 of the designated treatment (e).
[0042]      FIG. 13 shows the individual change in fasting plasma glucose concentrations (x-axis;
mg/dL) as a function of time (y-axis; min) from baseline to Day 5 by scatterplot in subjects
treated with 500 mg (+) and 1000 mg (m)Metformin DR, 1000 mg Metformin IR (0) , and 500
mg Metformin IR + 1000 mg Metformin DR (A )(y-axis) The line in the panel marks the LS
Mean Change in glucose (mg/dL) for each treatment.
[0043]      FIG. 14 shows the mean plasma metformin concentration (x-axis; ng/mL) of 500 mg
(*) and 1000 mg (m) Metformin DR, 1000 mg Metformin IR (o) , and 2000 mg metformin
extended release (Metformin XR) a function of time (y-axis; hours). Dose was administered at t
= 0 hours. Second dose was administered for BID regimens at t=12 hours. Meals/snacks were
provided at t= -.42, 2.08, 11.5, 18 and 24 hours.
[0044]      FIG. 15 shows the Cmax (left panel) and AUCO- 3 6 (right panel) of one day's dosing of
 1000 mg BID metformin IR, 500 mg BID and 1000 mg BID of Metformin DR and 2000 mg QD
metformin XR. The * signifies a statistically significant reduction in exposure compared to both
metformin IR and metformin XR (all p< 0.000 1)
[0045]      FIG. 16 shows the relative bioavailability of one day's dosing of 500 and 1000 mg
BID Metformin DR compared to 1000 mg BID Metformin IR (left panel) and the relative
bioavailability of one day's dosing of 500 and 1000 mg BID Metformin DR compared to 2000
mg QD Metformin XR (right panel)
                                                 - 10 -

                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0046]      Contemplated herein are methods and compositions that minimize the systemic
bioavailability of biguanide compounds, such as metformin, in subjects yet still provide
significant salutary metabolic effects, e.g. reducing hyperglycemia. Contrary to conventional
understanding (see, e.g. Mulherin et al, supra), the biguanide compounds of the disclosure
actually cause release of GLP- 1 through a mechanism of action which may include interaction
with the luminal or epithelial aspect (i.e., the gastrointestinal tract side) of enteroendocrine cells,
and systemic bioavailability can therefore be minimized while still achieving meaningful
therapeutic efficacy. Advantageously, the subject methods and compositions significantly
improve GI tolerability and also reduce the possibility of adverse effects such as lactic acidosis,
such that otherwise contraindicated patients can now be effectively treated.
[0047]      Accordingly, provided herein are methods of improving the GI tolerability of
biguanide compounds, and/or reducing GI complications resulting biguanide compound
administration, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide
compound in a delayed-release formulation to a subject in need thereof; wherein said delayed
release formulation minimizes the systemic level of the compound in the subject. Also provided
herein are methods of treating metabolic disorders in subjects, and particularly in subjects having
a contraindication for biguanide compound(s), comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of a biguanide compound in a delayed-release formulation to a subject in need
thereof; wherein said delayed-release formulation minimizes the systemic level of the compound
in the subject. In preferred embodiments, the biguanide compound is selected from the group
consisting of metformin, buformin, phenformin and imeglimin, and is administered at lower
doses and/or with lower bioavailability than currently indicated while still achieving the desired
metabolic improvements.
[0048]      Definitions
[0049]      The terms "gastrointestinal tract" and "gut," as used herein, refer to the stomach and
intestine. The "small" or "upper" intestine includes the duodenum, jejunum and ileum and the
"large" or "lower" intestine includes the caecum, colon and rectum. The "distal" small intestine
includes the jejunum and ileum.
                                                  - 11 -

[0050]      "Treating" or "treatment" of any condition, disease or disorder refers, in some
embodiments, to ameliorating the disease, disorder, or condition (i.e., arresting or reducing the
development of the disease, disorder, or condition, or at least one of the clinical symptoms
thereof). In other embodiments "treating" or "treatment" refers to ameliorating at least one
physical parameter, which may or may not be discernible by the subject, including physical
parameters that are undesired but not clinically significant. In yet other embodiments, "treating"
or "treatment" refers to inhibiting the disease, disorder, or condition, either physically, (e.g.,
stabilization of a discernible symptom), physiologically, (e.g., stabilization of a physical
parameter) or both. In yet other embodiments, "treating" or "treatment" refers to preventing or
to delaying the onset of the disease, disorder, or condition.
[0051]      "Therapeutically effective amount" or "effective amount" means the amount of a
composition, compound, therapy, or course of treatment that, when administered to a subject for
treating a disease, disorder, or condition, is sufficient to effect such treatment for the disease,
disorder, or condition. The "therapeutically effective amount" will vary depending on the
composition, the compound, the therapy, the course of treatment, the disease, disorder, or
condition, and its severity and the age, weight, etc., of the subject to be treated.
[0052]      When the biguanide compounds described herein include one or more chiral centers,
the stereochemistry of such chiral centers can independently be in the R or S configuration, or a
mixture of the two. The chiral centers can be further designated as R or S or R,S or d,D, 1,L or
d,l, D,L. Correspondingly, the biguanide compounds of the invention, if they can be present in
optically active form, can actually be present in the form of a racemic mixture of enantiomers, or
in the form of either of the separate enantiomers in substantially isolated and purified form, or as
a mixture comprising any relative proportions of the enantiomers.
[0053]      When the biguanide compounds described herein contain two or more chiral centers
then diastereomers are possible. Such diastereomers may be present as pure diastereomeric
enantiomers, pure racemic mixtures of diastereomeric enantiomers, mixtures of diastereomers
which may be racemic or may have optical activity in their own right due to complex
permutations of enantiomeric diastereomers in the balance of the mixtures.
[0054]      When the biguanide compounds of the invention, if they can be present in
geometrically isomeric forms around, for example, the guanide bond, then they can actually be
                                                  - 12 -

present in the form of a mixture of geometric isomers comprising any relative proportions of the
isomers, or in some cases in the form of either of the separate geometric isomers in substantially
isolated and purified form.
[0055]       When the biguanide compounds described herein include one or more isolated or
linearly conjugated double bonds, the geometry around such double bonds can be independently
a cis/trans, E/Z mixture or an E or Z geometric isomer thereof.
[0056]       "Alkyl" means a straight or branched chain, saturated monovalent hydrocarbon
radical. By way of example, the hydrocarbon chain may have from one to twenty carbons, one
to sixteen carbons, one to fourteen carbons, one to twelve carbons, one to ten carbons, one to
eight carbons, one to six carbons, one to four carbons, etc. "Lower alkyl" may refer to alkyls
having, e.g., one to six carbons, one to four carbons, etc. In certain examples, an straight chain
alkyl may have from one to six carbon atoms and a branched alkyl three to six carbon atoms,
e.g., methyl, ethyl, propyl, 2-propyl, butyl (including all isomeric forms), pentyl (including all
isomeric forms), and the like. "Me" means methyl, "Et" means ethyl, and "iPr" means isopropyl.
[0057]       "Aryl" means a monovalent monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic hydrocarbon radical,
e.g., having from of 6 to 20 or 6 to 10 ring atoms e.g., phenyl or naphthyl.
[0058]       "Alkylaryl" means a (alkylene)-R radical where R is aryl as defined above.
[0059]       "Cycloalkyl" means a cyclic saturated or partially saturated monovalent hydrocarbon
radical (or an alicyclic radical). By way of example, the cycloalkyl may have from three to
twenty carbon atoms, from three to sixteen carbon atoms, from three to fourteen carbon atoms,
from three to twelve carbon atoms, from three to ten carbon atoms, from three to eight carbon
atoms, from three to six carbon atoms, etc., wherein one or two carbon atoms may be replaced by
an oxo group, e.g., admantanyl, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl,
indanyl and the like.
[0060]       "Alkylcycloalkyl" means a (alkylene)-R radical where R is cycloalkyl as defined
above; e.g., cyclopropylmethyl, cyclobutylmethyl, cyclopentylethyl, or cyclohexylmethyl, and
the like.
[0061]       "Heterocyclyl" or "heterocycloalkyl" means a saturated or unsaturated monovalent
monocyclic group, in which one or two ring atoms are heteroatom selected from N, 0, or S, the
                                                 - 13 -

remaining ring atoms being C. The heterocyclyl ring is optionally fused to a (one) aryl or
heteroaryl ring as defined herein. The heterocyclyl ring fused to monocyclic aryl or heteroaryl
ring is also referred to in this Application as "bicyclic heterocyclyl" ring. Additionally, one or
two ring carbon atoms in the heterocyclyl ring can optionally be replaced by a -CO- group. More
specifically the term heterocyclyl includes, but is not limited to, pyrrolidino, piperidino,
homopiperidino, 2-oxopyrrolidinyl, 2-oxopiperidinyl, morpholino, piperazino,
tetrahydropyranyl, thiomorpholino, and the like. When the heterocyclyl ring is unsaturated it can
contain one or two ring double bonds. When the heterocyclyl group contains at least one
nitrogen atom, it is also referred to herein as heterocycloamino and is a subset of the heterocyclyl
group. When the heterocyclyl group is a saturated ring and is not fused to aryl or heteroaryl ring
as stated above, it is also referred to herein as saturated monocyclic heterocyclyl.
[0062]       "Alkylheterocycloalkyl" means a -(alkylene)-R radical where R is heterocyclyl ring
as defined above e.g., tetraydrofuranylmethyl, piperazinylmethyl, morpholinylethyl, and the like.
[0063]       "Heteroaryl" means a monovalent monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic radical, where one
or more, preferably one, two, or three, ring atoms are heteroatom selected from N, 0, or S, the
remaining ring atoms being carbon. Representative examples include, but are not limited to,
pyrrolyl, thienyl, thiazolyl, imidazolyl, furanyl, indolyl, isoindolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl, benzothiazolyl, benzoxazolyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, pyridinyl,
pyrimidinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, tetrazolyl, and the like.
[0064]       "Oxo" or "carbonyl" means =(O) group or C=O group, respectively.
[0065]       The term "substituted" means that the referenced group is substituted with one or
more additional group(s) individually and independently selected from groups described herein.
In some embodiments, an optional substituent is selected from oxo, halogen, -CN, -NH 2, -OH,
NH(CH 3), -N(CH 3) 2 , alkyl (including straight chain, branched and/or unsaturated alkyl),
substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
fluoroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy,
fluoroalkoxy, -S-alkyl, -S(O) 2 -alkyl, -CONH((substituted or unsubstituted alkyl) or (substituted
or unsubstituted phenyl)), -CON(H or alkyl) 2 , -OCON(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl) 2 ,
NHCONH((substituted or unsubstituted alkyl) or (substituted or unsubstituted phenyl)),
NHCOalkyl, -N(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl)CO(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl),
                                                  - 14 -

NHCOO(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl), -C(OH)( substituted or unsubstituted alkyl) 2, and
C(NH 2)(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl) 2 . In some embodiments, by way of example, an
optional substituent is selected from oxo, fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, -CN, -NH 2, -OH,
NH(CH 3), -N(CH 3) 2 , -CH 3 , - CH 2CH 3, -CH(CH 3) 2, -CF 3, -CH 2 CF 3, -OCH 3, -OCH 2CH 3 ,
OCH(CH 3) 2, -OCF 3 , - OCH 2 CF 3, - S(O) 2-CH 3, -CONH 2, -CONHCH 3, -NHCONHCH 3 , -COCH 3,
-COOH and the like. In some embodiments, substituted groups are substituted with one, two or
three of the preceding groups. In some embodiments, substituted groups are substituted with one
or two of the preceding groups. In some embodiments, substituted groups are substituted with
one of the preceding groups. Further, unless stated to the contrary, a formula with chemical
bonds shown only as solid lines and not as wedges or dashed lines contemplates each possible
isomer, e.g., each enantiomer and diastereomer, and a mixture of isomers, such as racemic or
scalemic mixtures.
[0066]       In some embodiments, a biguanide compound of the disclosure is present in a
composition as a salt. In some embodiments, salts are obtained by reacting a compound of the
disclosure with acids. In some other embodiments, pharmaceutically acceptable salts are
obtained by reacting a compound of the disclosure with a base. In other embodiments, the
compounds are used as free-acid or free-base form in the manufacture of the compositions
described herein. The type of salts, include, but are not limited to: (1) acid addition salts, formed
by reacting the free base form of the compound with a pharmaceutically acceptable: inorganic
acid, such as, for example, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid,
metaphosphoric acid, and the like; or with an organic acid, such as, for example, acetic acid,
propionic acid, hexanoic acid, cyclopentanepropionic acid, glycolic acid, pyruvic acid, lactic
acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, malic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, trifluoroacetic acid,
tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, 3- (4-hydroxybenzoyl)benzoic acid, cinnamic acid,
mandelic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, 1,2-ethanedisulfonic acid, 2
hydroxyethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, toluenesulfonic acid, 2-naphthalenesulfonic
acid, 4-methylbicyclo-[2.2.2]oct-2-ene-l-carboxylic acid, glucoheptonic acid, 4,4'-methylenebis
(3-hydroxy-2-ene-l-carboxylic acid), 3-phenylpropionic acid, trimethylacetic acid, tertiary
butylacetic acid, lauryl sulfuric acid, gluconic acid, glutamic acid, hydroxynaphthoic acid,
salicylic acid, stearic acid, muconic acid, butyric acid, phenylacetic acid, phenylbutyric acid,
valproic acid, and the like; (2) salts formed when an acidic proton present in the parent
                                                  - 15 -

compound is replaced by a metal ion, e.g., an alkali metal ion (e.g. lithium, sodium, potassium),
an alkaline earth ion (e.g. magnesium, or calcium), or an aluminum ion. In some cases, the
biguanide compound described herein are reacted with an organic base, such as, but not limited
to, ethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, tromethamine, N-methylglucamine,
dicyclohexylamine, tris(hydroxymethyl)methylamine. In other cases, the compounds described
herein form salts with amino acids such as, but not limited to, arginine, lysine, and the like.
Acceptable inorganic bases used to form salts with compounds that include an acidic proton,
include, but are not limited to, aluminum hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide,
sodium carbonate, sodium hydroxide, and the like.
[0067]      The term "amino acid" includes any one of the twenty naturally-occurring amino
acids or the D-form of any one of the naturally-occurring amino acids. In addition, the term
"amino acid" also includes other non-naturally occurring amino acids besides the D-amino acids,
which are functional equivalents of the naturally-occurring amino acids. Such non-naturally
occurring amino acids include, for example, norleucine ("Nle"), norvaline ("Nva"), L- or D
naphthalanine, ornithine ("Orn"), homoarginine (homoArg) and others well known in the peptide
art, such as those described in M. Bodanzsky, "Principles of Peptide Synthesis," 1st and 2nd
Revised Ed., Springer-Verlag, New York, N.Y., 1984 and 1993, and Stewart and Young, "Solid
Phase Peptide Synthesis," 2nd Ed., Pierce Chemical Co., Rockford, Ill., 1984, both of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
[0068]      Amino acids and amino acid analogs can be purchased commercially (Sigma
Chemical Co.; Advanced Chemtech) or synthesized using methods known in the art.
[0069]      In the scope of the embodiments, the biguanide compounds described herein include
further forms of the compounds such as pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates (including
hydrates), amorphous phases, partially crystalline and crystalline forms (including all
polymorphs), prodrugs, metabolites, N-oxides, isotopically-labeled, epimers, pure epimers,
epimer mixtures, enantiomers including but not limited to single enantiomers and enantiomeric
diastereomers, meso compounds, stereoisomers, racemic mixtures and diasteroisomeric mixtures.
Biguanide compounds described herein having one or more double bonds include cis/trans
isomers, E/Z isomers and geometric isomers. Biguanide compounds described herein can be
prepared as a pharmaceutically acceptable salts formed when an acidic proton present in the
                                               - 16 -

parent compound either is replaced by a metal ion, for example an alkali metal ion, an alkaline
earth ion, or an aluminum ion; or coordinates with an organic base. In addition, the salt forms of
the disclosed compounds can be prepared using salts of the starting materials or intermediates.
[0070]      In some embodiments, the biguanide compounds described herein include solvent
addition forms or crystal forms thereof, particularly solvates or polymorphs. Solvates contain
either stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric amounts of a solvent, and may be formed during the
process of crystallization with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol, and
the like. Hydrates are formed when the solvent is water, or alcoholates are formed when the
solvent is alcohol.
[0071]      As noted above, in some embodiments the biguanide compounds described herein
possess one or more stereocenters and each center exists independently in either the R or S
configuration. The biguanide compounds presented herein include all diastereomeric,
enantiomeric, and epimeric forms as well as the appropriate mixtures thereof.
[0072]      In some embodiments, sites on the biguanide compounds disclosed herein are
susceptible to various metabolic reactions. Therefore incorporation of appropriate substituents at
the places of metabolic reactions will reduce, minimize or eliminate the metabolic pathways. In
specific embodiments, the appropriate substituent to decrease or eliminate the susceptibility of
the aromatic ring to metabolic reactions is, by way of example only, a halogen, deuterium or an
alkyl group.
[0073]      In some embodiments, the biguanide compounds described herein are isotopically
labeled, which are identical to those recited in the various formulae and structures presented
herein, but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or
mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. In some
embodiments, one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with deuterium. In some embodiments,
metabolic sites on the compounds described herein are deuterated. In some embodiments,
substitution with deuterium affords certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater
metabolic stability, such as, for example, increased in vivo half-life or reduced dosage
requirements. Throughout the specification, groups and substituents thereof can be chosen by
one skilled in the field to provide stable moieties and compounds.
[0074]      Biguanides
                                                 -17-

[0075]       The compositions and methods disclosed herein relate to metformin and other
biguanides. By way of background, metformin is one of the simplest structural variants of a
class of compounds known as the biguanides. From a structural perspective metformin
resembles a pharmacophore or fragment of a larger biologically active chemical structure.
[0076]       In one embodiment, the biguanide compounds of the subject invention include the
following:
                                                   R6,'N       N'"IR7
                                               R2.N        N iN'R5
                                                    I      I       I
                                                   R1      R3     R4
wherein:
        R 1, R 2, R 3 , R 4, R 5 , R 6, and R 7 are independently selected from:
        H, OH,
        O-Rx, wherein Rx is alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylcycloalkyl, acyl, ester, thioester;
        optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., a C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl,
SH, S-alkyl, NH 2 , NH-alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C 4 to
C12 alkylcycloalkyl); heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero
atoms selected from 0, S, or N, including a C2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl
(e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N,
including a C3 to C11 alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the
heterocyclic ring, the nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea);
optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkenyl optionally
substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl,
NH 2 , NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkynyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain
alkynyl optionally substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH,
0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2 , NH-alkyl);
        optionally substituted aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted phenyl, naphthyl, substituted
naphthyl); optionally substituted alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); optionally substituted heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl,
                                                         - 18 -

thiophenyl, pyrrollyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which
are optionally substituted); optionally substituted alkylheteroaryl; and
          or R 6 and R 7 may join to form a bond, together forming a ring including the nitrogen
atoms to which they are attached;
          or R1 and R 2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
          or R 4 and R 5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
[0077]         In certain embodiments, O-Rx may be selected from: 0-C                   1 to C8 straight chain or
branched chain alkyl; O-C 3 to C 7 cycloalkyl; O-C 4 to C8 alkylcycloalkyl; O-acyl; O-esters; and
0-thioesters.
[0078]         In other embodiments, optional substitutions may include, e.g., OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S
alkyl, NH 2 , NH-alkyl. Further, an alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, etc. may be substituted with an
oxygen, silicon, sulphur, etc. to form a heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, etc.
[0079]         In certain embodiments, each of: R 3, R 6, and R 7, or R 3 , R 4, R 5 , and R 7,or R 3, R 4 , R 5 ,
and R 7, or R 3 , R 4, R 5 , R6 and R 7 , or R 2 , R 3, R 4 , R 5 , R 6 and R 7 are independently selected from:
          H, methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl;
and each of the remaining substituent groups: R 1, R 2, R 4, and R 5 , or R 1, R 2 , and R 6 , or R 1, R 2 , and
R 6 , or R 1 and R 2, or R 1, respectively, are independently selected from:
          H; optionally substituted alkyl (e.g., C1 to C12 straight chain or branched chain alkyl
optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0
alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH-alkyl); optionally substituted alkenyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain
or branched chain alkenyl optionally hetero substituted with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or
optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2 , NH-alkyl); optionally substituted
alkynyl (e.g., C1 to C 12 straight chain or branched chain alkynyl optionally hetero substituted
with oxygen, silicon, sulphur or optionally substituted with OH, 0-alkyl, SH, S-alkyl, NH 2, NH
alkyl); cycloalkyl (e.g., C3 to C7 cycloalkyl); alkylcycloalkyl (e.g., C4 to C 12 alkylcycloalkyl);
heterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from
0, S, or N, including C 2 to C6 heterocycloalkyl); alkylheterocycloalkyl (e.g., where the
                                                            - 19    -

heterocycle comprises one or two hetero atoms selected from 0, S, or N, including C3 to CII
alkylheterocycloalkyl, and including wherein when N is present in the heterocyclic ring, the
nitrogen atom may be in the form of an amide, carbamate or urea); aryl (e.g., phenyl, substituted
phenyl, naphthyl, substituted naphthyl); alkylaryl (e.g., alkylphenyl, alkylsubstituted phenyl,
alkylnaphthyl, alkylsubstituted naphthyl); heteroaryl (e.g., pyridyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrrollyl,
oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, diazolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl all of which are optionally
substituted); alkylheteroaryl;
         or R1 and R 2 may together form a 3 to 8 membered heterocyclic ring, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached;
         or R 4 and R 5 may together form a ring selected from the group aziridine, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, indolinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl and piperidyl, including the
nitrogen atoms to which they are attached.
[0080]       Exemplary compounds and substituents of R 1, R 2, R 3, R 4 , R 5 , R 6, and R 7 of Formula I
are shown below. Additional combinations of selections of substituents of R 1, R 2, R 3, R 4, R 5 , R 6 ,
and R 7 are envisioned and disclosed in co-pending U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
13/547,022, the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.
                                                                                 0
        NH   NH          NH   NH            NH   NH          N      NH    NH                 NH   NH
                                     -~   'kN~
                                         N~1AJ      N                              I
    H2N    N    NH 2   N NNH       2                NH2          N     N    NH 2           N   N    NH 2
           H           |    H            H    H                  H     H                   H   H
          OH
    HO                 NH   NH              NH   NH        0       NH    NH      C    N    NH   NH
                     N    N   NH 2       N     N    NH 2        N'   NUJ   NH 2          N   N    N
                     H    H              H     H                H    H                   H   H    H
[0100]       In certain embodiments, the biguanide compounds of Formula I may include an
asymmetric center or centers, and may be in the form of a composition of a racemic mixture, a
diastereoisomeric mixture, a single enantiomer, an enantiomeric diastereomer, a meso
compound, a pure epimer, or a mixture of epimers thereof, etc. Further, the biguanide
compounds may have one or more double bonds, and may be in a form of a cis/trans, E/Z
mixture or an E or Z geometric isomer thereof.
[0101]       The biguanide compounds of Formula I may also be prepared as a salt form, e.g.,
pharmaceutically acceptable salts, including suitable acid forms, e.g., salt forms selected from
hydrochloride, hydrobromide, acetate, propionate, butyrate, sulphate, hydrogen sulphate,
                                                   - 20  -

sulphite, carbonate, hydrogen carbonate, phosphate, phosphinate, oxalate, hemi-oxalate,
malonate, hemi-malonate, fumarate, hemi-fumarate, maleate, hemi-maleate, citrate, hemi-citrate,
tartrate, hemi-tartrate, aspartate, glutamate, etc.
[0102]        Alternative embodiments of biguanide compounds specifically contemplated for use
in the subject invention include the related heterocyclic compounds described in co-pending U.S.
Patent Application Serial No. 13/547,022, the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated
herein by reference. The phrase "biguanide compound" as used herein includes these related
heterocyclic compounds, exemplary embodiments of which include the following:
Triazoles:
         N-N              N-N                N-N                     N-                    N-N
    H2N    N
           H   NH 2   NN          NH2      N   N     NH 2          N    N    NH2         N    N   NH 2
                        |     H            H   H                   H    H                H    H
           OH
     HO                 N-N                  N-N             O       N-N          CI     N-N
                    N     N     NH 2       N    N     NH 2        N    N    NH 2       N   N    N
                    H     H                H    H                 H    H               H   H    H
Triazines:
         NNtN             N     N                 N                  N    N                N    N
    H2N    N   NH2    N      N    NH 2         N     NH 2          N    N    NH 2        N    N   NH 2
                                           H                       H                     H
        HO  NH                                               0
            H         iN      NNH 2     0" N NNJNH2               N AN      NH 2  CI     N      N
                    H                      H                      H                    H        H
Dihydrotriazines:
         N>N              N'N                N>N                N       N          -       N    N
    H2N    N   NH2    NAIN        NH 2     N   N'    NH 2          N    N    NH 2        N    N   NH 2
           H           |     H             H   H                   H    H                H    H
           OH
            N1          N   ,N               N    N          0       NN           c        J
                             NNNH      /\1      Nt           \\    A                 KAN>
                                        0  N          NH 2        N    N    NH2   C      N      N
                    H     H                H    H                 H    H               H   H    H
7-ring cyclic biguanides:
                                                    -  21  -

                        N                    N                        N        O)          N
         N
         N    NH2
                     X-N~' NH 2
                     N     H             N
                                           %N~
                                             H
                                               )NH   2    0 ,
                                                                 N
                                                                    -
                                                                       H
                                                                            N
                                                                               2
                                                                                   I
                                                                                       N
                                                                                        X N'H   NH 2
   H2N   H                               H                       H                     H
    HO   OH              N                 '    N                 '      N        CI        N
                       N   NH 2             NN     NH 2            NN      NH2         N    N  H2
                   N   H         0'k     N    H                 N     H              N   H
                   H                     H                      H                    H
[0103]      In one embodiment, the compounds of the disclosure may be prepared as a three
component salt form including the components A, B, and C wherein:
        A is the protonated form of a natural or unnatural amino acid;
        B is the dianion of an acid; and
        C is the protonated form of a Compound of Formula I.
[0104]      In certain aspects, stoichiometric amounts of A, B, and C may be included wherein:
        A is the protonated form of a natural amino acid selected from alanine, aspartic acid,
        asparagine, arginine, glycine, glutamine, glutamic acid lysine, phenylalanine, tyrosine,
        serine, threonine, tryptophan, leucine, isoleucine, histidine, methionine, proline, cysteine,
        or cystine;
        B is the dianion of an acid selected from oxalic, malonic, citric, maleic, fumaric, tartaric,
        aspartic, glutamic acids and the like; and
        C is the protonated form of a compound of Formula I.
[0105]      Contraindicationsfor biguanide compounds, including metformin
[0106]      Since systemic biguanides, including metformin are reported to be substantially
excreted by the kidney, the risk of the biguanide compound accumulation and lactic acidosis
increases with the degree of impairment of renal function. Other contraindications for biguanide
compounds such as metformin include impaired lactate clearance, and a hypoxic condition.
Accordingly, patients having these contraindications are not currently treatable with
conventional biguanide compounds.
[0107]      However, as demonstrated herein, the therapeutic efficacy of metformin and other
biguanide compounds does not require an increase in the systemic level of the metformin that
presents an increased risk of lactic acidosis. As such, the risk of metformin accumulation and
                                                  - 22  -

lactic acidosis is dramatically lower, and the methods provided herein can therefore be used to
treat a condition in a patient in need thereof, even where the patient has a contraindication for
metformin. For example, the methods provided herein may be used to treat a patient in need
thereof, wherein the patient has a hypoxic condition (e.g., respiratory failure and/or heart failure),
impaired lactate clearance (e.g., due to liver failure), impaired metformin clearance, and/or renal
impairment, which may be moderate, severe, or endstage impairment, and may be the result of
chronic kidney disease.
[0108]      Metabolic Disorders
[0109]      The compositions and methods of the present invention find advantageous use in the
treatment and/or prophylaxis of metabolic disorders, including being overweight, obesity,
prediabetes, Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, dislipidemia or disorders of lipid metabolism, as well
as hyperglycemic conditions, such as insulin-dependent (type 1) or -independent (type 2)
diabetes, as well as physiological conditions or disorders associated with or that result from the
hyperglycemic condition. Thus, hyperglycemic conditions treatable by a method of the
invention also include a histopathological change associated with chronic or acute
hyperglycemia (e.g., diabetes). Particular examples include degeneration of pancreas (p-cell
destruction), kidney tubule calcification, degeneration of liver, eye damage (diabetic
retinopathy), diabetic foot, ulcerations in mucosa such as mouth and gums, excess bleeding,
delayed blood coagulation or wound healing and increased risk of coronary heart disease, stroke,
peripheral vascular disease, dyslipidemia, hypertension and obesity.
[0110]      As used herein, the term "hyperglycemic" or "hyperglycemia," when used in
reference to a condition of a patient, means a transient or chronic abnormally high level of
glucose present in the blood of a patient. The condition can be caused by a delay in glucose
metabolism or absorption such that the patient exhibits glucose intolerance or a state of elevated
glucose not typically found in normal patients (e.g., in glucose-intolerant subdiabetic patients at
risk of developing diabetes, or in diabetic patients). Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) levels for
normoglycemia are less than about 110 mg/dl, for impaired glucose metabolism, between about
 110 and 126 mg/dl, and for diabetics greater than about 126 mg/dl.
[0111]      Metabolic disorders also include obesity or an undesirable body mass. Leptin,
cholecystokinin, PYY and GLP- 1 decrease hunger, increase energy expenditure, induce weight
                                                 - 23 -

loss or provide normal glucose homeostasis. Thus, in various embodiments, a method of the
invention for treating obesity or an undesirable body mass, or hyperglycemia, involves the local
administration of metformin to activate enteroendocrine cell production of cholecystokinin,
oxyntomodulin, GIP, GLP-2, PYY or GLP-1. Disorders treatable also include those typically
associated with obesity, for example, abnormally elevated serum/plasma LDL, VLDL,
triglycerides, cholesterol, plaque formation leading to narrowing or blockage of blood vessels,
increased risk of hypertension/stroke, coronary heart disease, etc.
[0112]      Synthesis of the Compounds
[0113]      Compounds described herein may be synthesized using standard synthetic techniques
known to those of skill in the art or using methods known in the art in combination with methods
described herein. In additions, solvents, temperatures and other reaction conditions presented
herein may vary according to the practice and knowledge of those of skill in the art.
[0114]      The starting material used for the synthesis of compounds described herein can be
obtained from commercial sources, such as Aldrich Chemical Co. (Milwaukee, Wis.), Sigma
Chemical Co. (St. Louis, Mo.), or the starting materials can be synthesized. The compounds
described herein, and other related compounds having different substituents can be synthesized
using techniques and materials known to those of skill in the art, such as described, for example,
in March, ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 4th Ed., (Wiley 1992); Carey and Sundberg,
ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 4th Ed., Vols. A and B (Plenum 2000, 2001), and
Green and Wuts, PROTECTIVE GROUPS IN ORGANIC SYNTHESIS 3rd Ed., (Wiley 1999)
(all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety). General methods for the preparation
of the compounds as disclosed herein may be derived from known reactions in the field, and the
reactions may be modified by the use of appropriate reagents and conditions, as would be
recognized by the skilled person, for the introduction of the various moieties found in the
formulae as provided herein.
[0115]      Additional biguanide synthesis methods and schemes for the compounds described
herein can be found in U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/593,479 (published as U.S. 2010/0130498);
U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/593,398 (published as U.S. 2010/0184796); U.S. Pat. No.
7,829,299; U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/578,013 (published as U.S. 2010/005662 1); U.S. Pat.
No. 7,416,867; U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/455,693 (published as U.S. 2007/0037212); U.S.
                                                - 24 -

Application Ser. No. 13/059,730 (published as U.S. 2011/0143376), U.S. Application Ser. No.
 12/996,670 (published as U.S. 2011/0311991), U.S. Pat. No. 7,811,788; U.S. Application Ser.
No. 11/182,942 (published as U.S. 2006/0019346); U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/993,542
(published as U.S. 2011/0086138), U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/373,235 (published as U.S.
2010/0055209); International Application Ser. No. PCT/IL2007/000454 (published as WO
2007/116404); U.S. Application Ser. No. 10/472,056 (published as U.S. 2004/0138189); U.S.
Pat. No. 5,891,919; U.S. Pat. No. 6,376,657; U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/554,982 (published as
U.S. 2007/0104805); U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/926,745 (published as U.S. 2008/0108604);
International Application Ser. No. PCT/CA2009/001688 (published as WO 2010/060198); U.S.
Application Ser. No. 12/735,557 (published as U.S. 2010/0330205); International Application
Ser. No. PCT/CA2007/001066 (published as WO 2008/000063); U.S. Application Ser. No.
 11/438,204 (published as U.S. 2006/0269617); U.S. Application Ser. No. 10/563,713 (published
as U.S. 2006/0172020); U.S. Application Ser. No. 10/902,352 (published as U.S.
2006/0024335); U.S. Application Ser. No. 10/538,038 (published as U.S. 2006/0275765), U.S.
Application Ser. No. 11/555,617 (published as U.S. 2008/0187936); U.S. Application Ser. No.
 12/739,264 (published as U.S. 2010/0316736); U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/215,609 (published
as U.S. 2009/0042813); U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/893,088 (published as U.S.
2008/0050499); U.S. Pat. No. 7,807,204; U.S. Application Ser. No. 11/811,166 (published as
U.S. 2008/0003268); U.S. Pat. No. 6,376,657; International Application Ser. No.
PCT/US2011/041183 (published as WO 2011/163183); International Application Ser. No.
PCT/EP2011/059814 (published as WO 2011/157692); U.S. Application Ser. No. 12/790,292
(published as U.S. 2011/0293753); International Application Ser. No. PCT/JP2009/071700
(published as WO 2010/076879); U.S. Application Ser. No. 13/032,530 (published as U.S.
2011/0217394); International Application Ser. No. PCT/EP201 1/000110 (published as WO
2011/085979); International Application Ser. No. PCT/US2010/058467 (published as WO
2011/068814); U.S. Application Ser. No. 13/060,996 (published as U.S. 2011/0152361); U.S.
Application Ser. No. 12/09,253 (published as U.S. 2011/0124609); U.S. Application Ser. No.
 12/687,962 (published as U.S. 2011/0119499); and International Application Ser. No.
PCT/EP2010/004623 (published as WO 2011/012298); each of which are incorporated by
reference in their entirety.
[0116       Administration and Methods
                                              - 25 -

[0117]       The biguanide compounds of the disclosure, including analogs, salts, solvates,
polymorphs, hydrates, N-oxides, and prodrugs of such compounds, may be administered to a
subject in need thereof to treat various metabolic disorders, including obesity, dislipidemia or
other disorders of lipid metabolism as well as hyperglycemic conditions and histopathological
diseases associated with hyperglycemia, including type II diabetes. Particularly in view of the
surprising and unexpected decoupling of systemic bioavailability and therapeutic efficacy
achieved herein, and consequent improvement in toxicity and safety, the effective use of such
compounds for prophylaxis and prevention of such diseases and disorders, as well as use for
more general weight loss purposes, is also explicitly contemplated herein.
[0118]       In preferred embodiments, the compound is metformin. Prior formulations of
metformin are reported to have an average bioavailability of 30% to 60% while many
comparable small molecules have bioavailability of greater than 60%. See, e.g., Tucker et al.,
"Metformin kinetics in healthy subjects and in patients with diabetes mellitus" Br. J. Clin.
Pharmacol. 1981, 12(2) 235-246. Notably, metformin administration increases plasma
concentrations of GLP- 1 in normal, diabetic and DPP-IV-deficient rodents, as well as in humans
with and without type II diabetes, but has been reported to do so indirectly and independent of a
direct impact on intestinal L cells. Mulherin et al., supra.
[0119]       As demonstrated herein, however, and contrary to the well-established convention in
the art, enteroendocrine activation by metformin may be triggered by luminal signals on the
epithelial aspect of the gut, and therefore increased systemic bioavailability of metformin is
actually unnecessary after oral ingestion in order to stimulate the release of gastrointestinal
hormones such as GLP- 1. Accordingly, the effective treatment of otherwise contraindicated
patients is now made possible by administering compositions comprising biguanide compounds
(including analogs, salts, solvates, polymorphs, hydrates, N-oxides, and prodrugs thereof)
adapted to minimize the systemic bioavailability of the compound. In preferred embodiments,
the subject compositions and methods are formulated so as to minimize and preferably avoid an
initial release in the stomach and/or proximal small intestine (areas with the greatest absorption)
in order to reduce systemic bioavailability upon oral administration.
[0120]       Delivery to Specific IntestinalLocations
                                                 - 26 -

 [0121]      The embodiments described herein provide a treatment method comprising
 administering a delayed-release composition comprising a biguanide compound (including any
 analogs, salts, solvates, polymorphs, hydrates, N-oxides, or prodrugs thereof) formulated to be
 delivered to one or more locations of the small intestine and/or lower intestine, and preferably
 distal small intestine, in order to minimize systemic bioavailability by avoiding absorption in the
 stomach and proximal small intestine and corresponding rapid increase in Cmax.
 [0122]      The biguanide compounds are targeted beyond the stomach to one or more regions of
the small intestine, and are preferably targeted downstream or distal of the duodenum. In
preferred embodiments, the compounds are delivered to the jejunum, ileum, caecum and colon,
 or a combination thereof. In preferred embodiments, the compounds are delivered to the
jejunum, ileum and caecum, or a combination thereof. In preferred embodiments, the
 compounds are preferentially targeted to the ileum. In additional embodiments, the compound is
 delivered downstream or distal of the jejunum, or solely to the lower intestine.
 [0123]      In yet other embodiments, the biguanide compound (including an analog, salt,
 solvate, polymorph, hydrate, N-oxide, or prodrug thereof) is delivered to one or more regions of
the upper intestine and one or more regions of the lower intestine. For example, the compound
 can be delivered to the duodenum and the colon. In another non-limiting example, the compound
 can be delivered to the duodenum, jejunum, ileum and colon.
 [0124]      The administration of biguanides such as metformin to the preferred regions or
 locations of the intestine may be achieved by any known method. In preferred embodiments, the
biguanide compound is formulated in a delayed-release composition for oral delivery that
 delivers the compound to the targeted regions or locations of the intestine. When delivery of the
biguanide compound is targeted to two or more regions of the gastrointestinal tract, the
 compound may be delivered in any proportion and manner.
 [0125]      Minimizing systemic exposure
 [0126]      As described above, the methods disclosed herein minimize the systemic
bioavailability of the biguanide compound in contraindicated patients. In some embodiments,
the biguanide compounds have reduced average systemic bioavailability. Reduced average
 systemic bioavailabity, in some embodiments, is lower average systemic bioavailability as
 compared to an immediate release or extended release formulation having an equivalent amount
                                                 - 27 -

of the biguanide compound. In other embodiments, reduced average systemic bioavailability is
when the average systemic bioavailability is less than 30%, less than 25%, less than 15%, less
than 10% and less than 50% as compared to an immediate or extended release formulation having
an equivalent amount of the biguanide compound. In certain instances, the average systemic
bioavailability is less than 15%.
[0127]      In some embodiments, the subject methods minimize the mean plasma Cmax and/or
mean AUC levels of the biguanide compound in contraindicated patients. In some embodiments,
the administration methods result in minimal plasma absorption, mean Cmax and/or mean AUC
levels of the biguanide compounds in the patient. It other embodiments, the mean plasma Cmax,
and/or mean AUC levels of the biguanide compound are considered sub-therapeutic for the
described compositions as compared to the reported Cmax and/or AUC levels of conventional
immediate-release and extended-release formulations having identical amounts of metformin.
For example, negligible or sub-therapeutic metformin plasma Cmax and/or AUC levels include
75%, 6 0%, 50%,    4
                     0% and 3 0% of reported Cmax and/or AUC levels of known metformin
formulations (e.g., GLUMETZA®, GLUCOPHAGE@, GLUCOPHAGE@ XR, RIOMET®,
FORTAMET®, OBIMET®, GLUFORMIN@, DIANBEN®, DIABEX@, DIAFORMIN@,
Metformin IR®, Metformin SR®, and the like).
[0128]      In specific embodiments, the inventive compositions and methods directed to
metformin produce a Cmax that is no more than 75% or 85%, preferably no more than 50% or
60%, more preferably no more than 2 5% or 3 0% or 4 0% of the same dose of an immediate
release metformin formulation (e.g. GLUCOPHAGE®) following oral ingestion. In other
embodiments, the inventive methods provide a Cmax that is no more than 3x, more preferably no
more than 2.5x or 2x, still more preferably no more than 1.8x or 1.5x the initial trough plasma
concentration 10-12 hours after the last oral ingestion of metformin. In other embodiments, the
inventive compositions and methods provide a mean plasma AUC over the dosing interval that is
no more than 75% or 80%, preferably no more than 50% or 60%, more preferably no more than
25%, 3 0% or 4 0% of the same dose of an immediate release formulation (e.g.
GLUCOPHAGE®) following oral ingestion.
[0129]      Accordingly, in specific embodiments, administration of the subject delayed-release
formulation minimizes the mean plasma AUC, the mean plasma Cmax and/or the circulating
                                                - 28 -

plasma concentration of the biguanide compound in contraindicated patients compared to an
identical protocol administering an IR or XR formulation having the same amount of the
biguanide compound. In one embodiment, the mean plasma AUC 0 of the biguanide compound
resulting from administration is less than about 15,000 ng*h/mL or 14,000 ng*h/mL, preferably
less than about 12,000 ng*h/mL, 11,000 ng*h/mL or 10,000 ng*h/mL, more preferably less than
about 9,000 ng*h/mL, 8,000 ng*h/mL or 7,000 ng*h/mL. In one embodiment, the resulting
mean plasma Cmax of the biguanide compound is less than about 1000 ng/mL, preferably less
than about 900 ng/mL or 800 ng/mL, more preferably less than about 700 ng/mL, 600 ng/mL or
500 ng/mL. In one embodiment, the resulting circulating plasma concentration of the biguanide
compound is below about 5 tg/ml or 4 tg/ml, preferably below about 3 tg/ml or 2.5 tg/ml,
more preferably below about 2 tg/ml, 1 tg/ml, 0.5 tg/ml, or 0.25 tg/ml in the patient. In
preferred embodiments, the biguanide compound is metformin, the IR composition is
Glucophage@ and the XR composition is Glucophage@ XR.
[0130       Formulations
[0131]      To limit its systemic bioavailability, the compositions comprising the biguanide
compound are adapted for delayed release so as to minimize plasma absorption. The delivery of
biguanide compounds such as metformin to the enteroendocrine cells is via any known method
including, e.g., oral, rectal, nasogastric tube, parenterally injection such as intraluminal intestinal
injection. In preferred embodiments, oral dosage forms are administered. Oral delivery of
biguanide compounds is described in the delayed release formulations section and include timed
release systems, enteric coatings and pH dependent systems, and the like. In some embodiments,
the compositions comprising the compounds described herein utilize a multicomponent system
where the biguanide compound is delivered to several places in the gastrointestinal tract such as
the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, lower intestine or combinations thereof following administration.
For example, a delayed-release formulation comprising the biguanide compound can deliver to
the lower intestine by use of timed or delayed (enteric) release components. Multicomponent
systems of such compounds can be in unitary dosage forms such as bi- or tri- or multiple-layer
tablets or multi-particulate forms such as encapsulated micro-tablets, granules or as separate
dosage forms, e.g., separate tablets taken together or at a periodic interval.
                                                  - 29 -

[0132]      In some embodiments, the delayed-release formulation releases the biguanide
compound after onset of a desired pH, due to the enteric coating. pHs contemplated include
about pH 5.0 or about pH 5.5, more preferably about pH 6.0, about pH 6.5 and about pH 7.0.
After onset of a desired pH, the compound begins release. Such compositions may release the
biguanide compound in about 15 minutes, about 20 minutes, about 25 minutes or about 30
minutes after the onset of the desired pH, and/or may have timed, extended or slow release
aspects that release the biguanide compound over the course of a longer time period such as
about 1 hour, about 2 hours, about 3 hours, about 4 hours, about 5 hours, about 6 hours, about 7
hours or about 8 hours. Exemplary two component delivery system can be, in some
embodiments, a bilayer tablet. Three, four and additional components are contemplated within
the embodiments.
[0133]      For delayed-release formulations comprising the biguanide compound, dosages of the
compound can range from about 1 mg to about 2000 mg, about 10 mg to about 1500 mg, about
50 mg to about 1000 mg or about 100 mg or about 500 mg per day. In some instances, the
dosage of the compound is about 2000 mg, about 1500 about 1000 mg, about 800 mg, about 600
mg, about 500 mg, about 400 mg, about 300 mg, about 250 mg, about 200 mg, about 150 mg,
about 100 mg, about 75 mg, about 50 mg, about 25 mg, about 10 mg or about 1 mg per day. In
some embodiments, the dosage of the compound is less than 400 mg. In some embodiments, the
dosage of the compound is 250 mg.
[0134]      Salts of biguanide compound include, but are not limited to, hydrochloride,
phosphate, sulfate, hydrobromide, salicylate, maleate, benzoate, succinnate, ethanesulfonate,
fumarate, glycolate, pamoate, oratate, acetate, isobutyrate, acetylsalicylate, nicotinic acid,
adamantoate, zinc chlorophylin, carboxylic acid, benzoic acid, dichloroacetic acid, theophylin-7
acetate, clofibrate, tartate, oxalate, tannate and hydroxyl acid salts. In preferred embodiment, the
salt is metformin hydrochloride.
[0135]      The biguanide compounds of the subject invention can be advantageously
administered or combined with additional therapeutic agents, such as anti-obesity and/or anti
diabetic agents described herein. Notable agents for combinations with the metformin
compositions described herein include DPP-IV inhibitors (e.g., sitagliptin, saxagliptin, berberine,
vildagliptin, linagliptin, alogliptin, and the like), SGLT-2 and/or SGLT- 1 inhibitors (e.g.,
                                                   - 30 -

dapafloglizin, canafloglizin, LX421 1), agonists of GPR40, GPR120, GPR1 19, GPR41, GPR43,
etc., thiazolidinediones (e.g., pioglitazone, rivoglitazone, rosiglitazone, troglitazone, and the
like), sulfonylureas (e.g., glipzide, glibenclamide (glyburide), gliquidone, glyclopyramide,
glimepiride, gliclazide, acetohexamide, carbutamide, chlorpropamide, tolbutamide, tolazamide,
and the like), Dual PPAR agonists (e.g., aleglitazar, muraglitazar, tesaglitazar, and the like),
lipid-lowering agents (e.g., statins), and anti-hypertensive agents.
[0136]       Formulations for the compositions provided herein include those suitable for oral or
rectal administration, and administration although the most suitable route can depend upon for
example the condition and disorder of the recipient. The formulations can conveniently be
presented in unit dosage form and can be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art
of pharmacy. All methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with
the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients.
[0137]       Formulations suitable for oral administration can be presented as discrete units such
as capsules, cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient;
as a powder or granules; as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous liquid or a non-aqueous
liquid; or as an oil-in-water liquid emulsion or a water-in-oil liquid emulsion.
[0138]       Composition preparations which can be used orally include tablets, push-fit capsules
made of gelatin, as well as soft, sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer, such as
glycerol or sorbitol. Tablets can be made by compression or molding, optionally with one or
more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets can be prepared by compressing in a suitable
machine the active ingredient in a free-flowing form such as a powder or granules, optionally
mixed with binders (e.g., povidone, gelatin, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose), inert diluents,
preservative, disintegrant (e.g., sodium starch glycolate, cross-linked povidone, cross-linked
sodium carboxymethyl cellulose) or lubricating, surface active or dispersing agents. Molded
tablets can be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound
moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets can optionally be coated or scored and can be
formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein. Tablets
can optionally be provided with an enteric coating, to provide release in parts of the gut other
than the stomach. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for such
administration. The push-fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler
                                                 - 31  -

such as lactose, binders such as starches, and/or lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate
and, optionally, stabilizers. In soft capsules, the active compounds can be dissolved or suspended
in suitable liquids, such as fatty oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition,
stabilizers can be added. Dragee cores are provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose,
concentrated sugar solutions can be used, which can optionally contain gum arabic, talc,
polyvinyl pyrrolidone, carbopol gel, polyethylene glycol, and/or titanium dioxide, lacquer
solutions, and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments can be added
to the tablets or Dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of
active compound doses.
[0139]       It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned
above, the compounds and compositions described herein can include other agents conventional
in the art having regard to the type of formulation in question, for example those suitable for oral
administration can include flavoring agents.
[0140]       The compositions described herein can also contain the biguanide compound in a
form suitable for oral use, for example, as tablets, troches, lozenges, aqueous or oily suspensions,
dispersible powders or granules, emulsions, hard or soft capsules, or syrups or elixirs.
Compositions intended for oral use can be prepared according to any method known to the art for
the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions, and such compositions can contain one or
more agents selected from, by way of non-limiting example, sweetening agents, flavoring agents,
coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide pharmaceutically elegant and palatable
preparations.
[0141]      Delayed Release Formulations
[0142]       Many strategies can be pursued to obtain delayed release in which the location of the
release is controlled so as to minimize systemic absorption. For example, delayed release can be
obtained by the appropriate selection of formulation parameters and ingredients (e.g., appropriate
controlled release compositions and coatings). Examples include single or multiple unit tablet or
capsule compositions, oil solutions, suspensions, emulsions, microcapsules, microspheres,
nanoparticles and liposomes. The release mechanism can be controlled such that the biguanide
compounds are released at period intervals or the location of the release is controlled, the release
of combined agents can be simultaneous, or a delayed release of the biguanide compound in a
                                                   - 32 -

combination can be affected when the early release of another combined therapeutic one is
preferred over the other. Different delivery systems described herein can also be combined to
release at an onset of multiple period intervals (e.g., about 30 minutes, about 120 minutes, about
 180 minutes and about 240 minutes after oral administration) or at different locations (e.g.,
release in the lower intestine, upper intestine, the jejunum, ileum, caecum, colon, and/or rectum)
or a combination thereof. For example, a pH dependent system can be combined with a timed
release system or any other system described herein to achieve a desired release profile.
[0143]       In certain embodiments, the biguanide compounds are provided in the form of a
delayed release formulation coupled with an extended release component of the biguanide
compound and/or an additional therapeutic agent in a unitary dosage form. The extended release
component can be formulated by any known method such as a layer that envelops a portion of
the delayed release component or the like. Exemplary ratios of extended release of an additional
therapeutic agent to delayed release of a biguanide compound are about 10% XR to about 90%
DR, about 15% XR to about 8 5% DR, about 2 0% XR to about 8 0% DR, about 2 5% XR to about
75% DR, about 3 0% XR to about 70% DR, about 3 5% XR to about 6 5% DR, about 4 0% XR to
about 6 0% DR, about 4 5% XR to about 55% DR, or about 50% XR to about 50% DR. In certain
embodiments, the extended release of an active agent to modified release of an active agent is
about 25% XR to about 75% DR. In certain embodiments, the extended release of an active
agent to modified release of an active agent is about 20% XR to about 80% DR. Unitary dosage
forms with an XR and DR component include any known formulation including bilayer tablets,
coated pellets, and the like.
[0144]       In certain embodiments, the biguanide compounds are provided in the form of a
delayed release formulation coupled with an immediate release component of an additional
therapeutic agent in a unitary dosage form. The immediate release component can be formulated
by any known method such as a layer that envelops the delayed release component or the like.
Exemplary ratios of immediate release of an additional therapeutic agent to delayed release of a
biguanide compound are about 10% IR to about 90% DR, about 15% IR to about 85% DR, about
2 0%  IR to about 8 0% DR, about 2 5% IR to about 75% DR, about 3 0% IR to about 70% DR,
about 35% IR to about 6 5% DR, about 4 0% IR to about 6 0% DR, about 45% IR to about 55%
DR, or about 50% IR to about 50% DR. In certain embodiments, the immediate release of an
active agent to delayed release of an active agent is about 25% IR to about 75% DR. In certain
                                                  - 33 -

embodiments, the immediate release of an active agent to delayed release of an active agent is
about 20% IR to about 80% DR. Unitary dosage forms with an IR and DR component include
any known formulation including bilayer tablets, coated pellets, and the like.
[0145        Timed release systems
[01461       In one embodiment, the delayed-release mechanism is a "timed" or temporal release
("TR") system that releases an active agent, for example a biguanide compound, at certain
timepoints subsequent to administration. Timed release systems are well known in the art and
suitable timed release systems can include any known excipient and/or coating. For example,
excipients in a matrix, layer or coating can delay release of an active agent by slowing diffusion
of the active agent into an environment. Suitable timed release excipients include but are not
limited to, acacia (gum arabic), agar, aluminum magnesium silicate, alginates (sodium alginate),
sodium stearate, bladderwrack, bentonite, carbomer, carrageenan, Carbopol, cellulose,
microcrystalline cellulose, ceratonia, chondrus, dextrose, furcellaran, gelatin, Ghatti gum, guar
gum, galactomannan, hectorite, lactose, sucrose, maltodextrin, mannitol, sorbitol, honey, maize
starch, wheat starch, rice starch, potato starch, gelatin, sterculia gum, xanthum gum, Glyceryl
behenate (e.g., Compritol 888 ato), Gylceryl distearate (e.g. Precirol ato 5), polyethylene glycol
(e.g., PEG 200-4500), polyethylene oxide, adipic acid, gum tragacanth, ethyl cellulose (e.g.,
ethyl cellulose 100), ethylhydroxyethyl cellulose, ethylmethyl cellulose, methyl cellulose,
hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxyethylmethyl cellulose (e.g., KlOOLV, K4M, Kl5M),
hydroxypropyl cellulose, poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate), cellulose acetate (e.g. cellulose
acetate CA-398-10 NF), cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate propionate, cellulose
acetate butyrate, hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose acetate succinate, hydroxypropyl methyl
cellulose phthalate, cellulose butyrate, cellulose nitrate, oxypolygelatin, pectin, polygeline,
povidone, propylene carbonate, polyandrides, methyl vinyl ether/maleic anhydride copolymer
(PVM/MA), poly(methoxyethyl methacrylate), poly(methoxyethoxyethyl methacrylate),
hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, sodium carboxymethyl-cellulose
(CMC), silicon dioxide, vinyl polymers, e.g. polyvinyl pyrrolidones(PVP: povidone), polyvinyl
acetates, or polyvinyl acetate phthalates and mixtures, Kollidon SR, acryl derivatives (e.g.
polyacrylates, e.g. cross-linked polyacrylates, methycrylic acid copolymers), Splenda@
(dextrose, maltodextrin and sucralose) or combinations thereof. The timed release excipient may
be in a matrix with active agent, in another compartment or layer of the formulation, as part of
                                                 - 34 -

the coating, or any combination thereof. Varying amounts of one or more timed release
excipients may be used to achieve a designated release time.
[0147]      One non-limiting example includes formulations of the TIMERx@ system. This
controlled release formulation system provides for altered temporal release (SyncroDoseTM) as
well as biphasic release (Geminex@). (See, for example, Staniforth & Baichwal, TIMERx@:
novel polysaccharide composites for controlled/programmed release of active ingredients in the
gastrointestinal tract, Expert Opin. Drug Deliv., 2(3): 587-89 (2005)). Using formulations such
as these for the invention described herein, compositions can be created which target the upper
gastrointestinal tract, the lower gastrointestinal tract, or both, in addition to temporally
controlling the release of such compounds in any of these locations.
[0148]      In some embodiments, the timed release systems are formulated to release the
compound at an onset of about 5 minutes, about 10 minutes, about 20 minutes, about 30 minutes,
about 40 minutes, about 50 minutes, about 60 minutes, about 70 minutes, about 80 minutes,
about 90 minutes, about 100 minutes, about 110 minutes, about 120 minutes, about 130 minutes,
about 140 minutes, about 150 minutes, about 160 minutes, about 170 minutes, about 180
minutes, about 190 minutes, about 200 minutes, about 210 minutes, about 220 minutes, about
230 minutes, about 240 minutes, about 250 minutes, about 260 minutes, about 270 minutes,
about 280 minutes, about 290 minutes, about 300 minutes, about 310 minutes, about 320
minutes, about 330 minutes, about 340 minutes, about 350 minutes, about 360 minutes, about
370 minutes, about 380 minutes, about 390 minutes, about 400, about 400, about 410, or about
420 minutes subsequent to administration. In embodiments with multiple releases, timed release
systems are formulated to release at more than one time point. In certain embodiments, the timed
release systems are formulated to release at an onset of about 10 minutes, about 30 minutes,
about 120 minutes, about 180 minutes and about 240 minutes after administration. In certain
embodiments the timed release systems are formulated to release at an onset of about 5 to about
45 minutes, about 105 to about 135 minutes, about 165 to about 195 minutes, about 225 to about
255 minutes or a combination of times thereof following administration to a patient.
[0149]      Enteric coatings andpH Dependent Systems
                                                  - 35 -

[0150]      The formulation may also be coated with an enteric coating, which protects an active
agent, for example a biguanide compound, from degradation in an acidic environment, such as
the stomach, and allows a delayed release into a target area, for example the ileum, for uptake.
[0151]      The enteric coating may be, as a non-limiting example, wax or wax like substance,
such as carnauba wax, fatty alcohols, hydrogenated vegetable oils, zein, shellac, sucrose, Arabic
gum, gelatin, dextrin, psyllium husk powder, polymethacrylates, anionic polymethacrylates,
mixtures of poly(methacrylic acid, methyl methacrylate), polymers or copolymers derived from
acrylic and/or methacrylic acid esters, cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate trimelliate,
hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate (HPMCP), cellulose propionate phthalate, cellulose
acetate maleate, polyvinyl alcohol phthalate, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate
(HPMCAS), hydroxypropyl methylcellulose hexahydrophthalate, polyvinyl acetate phthalate,
mixtures of poly(methacrylic acid, ethyl acrylate), ethylcellulose, methylcellulose,
propylcellulose, chitosan succinate, chitosan succinate, polyvinyl acetate phthalate (PVAP),
polyvinyl acetate polymers carboxymethylethyl cellulose and compatible mixtures thereof. In
addition, an inactive intermediate film may be provided between the biguanide compound, and
the enteric coating to prevent interaction of the biguanide compound with the enteric coating.
[0152]      In one non-limiting example, silicone microspheres for pH-controlled gastrointestinal
drug delivery have been described by Carelli et al., Int. J. Pharmaceutics 179: 73-83, 1999. The
microspheres are pH-sensitive semi-interpenetrating polymer hydrogels made of varying
proportions of poly(methacrylic acid-co-methylmethacrylate) (EUDRAGIT@ L100 or
EUDRAGIT@ S100) and crosslinked polyethylene glycol 8000 that are encapsulated into
silicone microspheres. The EUDRAGIT@ series of methacrylic acid copolymers are
commercially available from Evonik Industries in Darmstadt, Germany.
[0153]      The enteric coatings can be formulated to release a biguanide compound at a desired
pH using combinations of enteric polymers. It is well-known that different locations of the
gastrointestinal system have specific pHs. For example, the duodenum may correspond to a pH
5.5 environment and the jejunum may correspond to pH 6.0 environment. In preferred
embodiments, the enteric coatings are formulated to release the compound at an onset of a
desired pH, e.g., in the distal small intestine and lower intestine, i.e., at about pH 6, about pH 6.5,
or about pH 7. In embodiments with multiple releases, the enteric coatings are formulated to
                                                  - 36 -

release at an onset of two or more pH values. In certain embodiments, the enteric coatings are
formulated to release at an onset of pH 6.0, 6.5 and 7.0. In certain embodiments, the enteric
coatings are formulated to release at an onset of pH 6.5 and 7.0. In certain embodiments, the
enteric coatings are formulated to release at the jejunum, ileum, and lower intestine. In yet other
embodiments, the enteric coatings are used in combination with other release systems such as a
timed release system.
[0154]      In yet other embodiments, the enteric coatings are used in combination with an
immediate release/ extended release unitary dosage form. For example, a unitary dosage form,
such as a bilayer tablet with a 20% IR/80% MR component of the biguanide compound can be
coated with an enteric coating that releases at pH, e.g., 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0 so that the release is
delayed until the dosage form reaches a pH of e.g., 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0 thereby releasing the IR
component immediately and the MR component according to its MR release properties. In
certain instances, the enteric coatings are used in combination with an immediate release/timed
release unitary dosage forms.
[0155]      The microcapsules gastroretentive systems described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,022,562,
5,846,566 and 5,603,957, can be used in the delayed release delivery methods described herein.
Microparticles of an active agent or drug are coated by spraying with a material consisting of a
mixture of a film-forming polymer derivative, a hydrophobic plasticizer, a functional agent and a
nitrogen-containing polymer. The resulting microcapsules are less than or equal to 1000 microns
(gm) in size, and in certain cases such microcapsules are between 100 and 500 microns. These
microcapsules remain in the small intestine for at least 5 hours.
[0156]      Film-forming polymer derivatives used in such microcapsules include, but are not
limited to, ethylcellulose, cellulose acetate, and non-hydrosoluble cellulose derivates. The
nitrogen-containing polymers include, but are not limited to, polyacrylamide, poly-N
vinylamide, poly-N-vinyl-lactam and polyvinylpyrrolidone. The plasticizer used in such
microcapsule include, but are not limited to, glycerol esters, phthalates, citrates, sebacates,
cetylalcohol esters, castor oil and cutin. The surface-active and/or lubricating agent used in such
microcapsule include, but are not limited to, anionic surfactants, such as by way of example the
alkali metal or alkaline-earth metal salts of fatty acids, stearic acid and/or oleic acid, nonionic
surfactants, such as by way of example, polyoxyethylenated esters of sorbitan and/or
                                                 - 37 -

polyoxyethylenated esters of sorbitan and/or polyoxyethylenated derivatives of castor oil; and/or
lubricants such as stearates, such as by way of example, calcium, magnesium, aluminum stearate,
zinc stearate, stearylfumarate, sodium stearylfimarate, and glyceryl behenate.
[0157]       One non-limiting example of a lower GI delivery formulation comprises a tablet for
lower GI delivery. The inner composition of the tablet comprises about 0.01% weight to about
 10.0% by weight of a suitable active ingredient; about 50% by weight to about 98% by weight of
a hydrocolloid gum obtainable from higher plants; and about 2% by weight to about 50% by
weight of a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient such as a binder. Other optional materials may
be present that will assist in establishing the desired characteristics of the pharmaceutical
composition. These include materials that may enhance absorption of the active ingredient in the
lower GI, may protect the active ingredient against degradation, may prevent dissolution, and the
like. Optionally surrounding the inner composition of the tablet is a coating that is preferably of
enteric polymeric material.
[0158]       The formulation is designed to take advantage of (1) the protective characteristics of
the hydrocolloid obtainable from higher plants in the upper GI and (2) the disintegrative
characteristics of the hydrocolloid in the lower GI. Thus, the inner composition of the tablet may
be one of several designs: (a) it may be a matrix of a therapeutically effective amount of the
active ingredient uniformly dispersed throughout in combination with a high percentage of the
hydrocolloid and a generally lesser amount of other excipients; (b) it may have a core, in which
the active ingredient is concentrated, surrounded by a layer of material that is free of the active
ingredient and that has a high percentage of the hydrocolloid and a generally lesser amount of
other excipients; (c) it may have a concentration gradient of the active ingredient such that there
is a greater amount in the core of the tablet with lesser amounts in multiple layers surrounding
the core and very little or no active ingredient in the outer layer. Whether the design of the tablet
is that of (a), (b) or (c) above, the specificity for regional delivery to the lower GI is enhanced by
enterically coating the tablet with an appropriate enteric coating material.
[0159]       Suitable hydrocolloids are well known in the art. See for example "The Chemistry of
Plant Gums and Mucilages" by Smith and Montgomery from the A.C.S. Monograph series,
#141, 1959, Reinhold Publishing Co. and the Eighteenth Edition of The Merck Index. In general,
the amount of the hydrocolloid that will be used is an amount that allows the composition to
                                                   - 38 -

traverse the upper GI tract without significant disintegration and without releasing significant
amounts of active ingredient in the upper GI tract, i.e. to provide a delayed-release profile.
Generally, that amount of hydrocolloid will be more than about 50% but less than about 98%.
Depending on individual variability, whether a patient has eaten or has fasted, and other factors,
a tablet will traverse the stomach and upper intestinal tract in about 3 to 6 hours. During this
time, little active ingredient (less than 20%, preferably less than 10%) is released from the tablet
of this invention. Once the tablet reaches the lower GI, the release of the active ingredient is
triggered by enzymatic degradation of the galactomannan gum.
[0160]       Modified Release Formulations
[0161]       In additional embodiment, the methods and compositions directed to biguanide
compound delivery may further employ controlled, sustained, or extended release formulations
known collectively as "modified release" formulations. Compositions can be administered by
modified release sysems or by delivery devices that are well known to those of ordinary skill in
the art. Examples include, but are not limited to, those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,845,770;
3,916,899; 3,536,809; 3,598,123; 4,008,719; 5,674,533; 5,059,595; 5,591,767; 5,120,548;
5,073,543; 5,639,476; 5,354,556; and 5,733,566. Such dosage forms can be used to provide
modified release of one or more active ingredients using, for example, hydropropylmethyl
cellulose, other polymer matrices, gels, permeable membranes, osmotic systems, multilayer
coatings, microparticles, liposomes, microspheres, or a combination thereof to provide the
desired release profile in varying proportions. Suitable modified release formulations known to
those of ordinary skill in the art, including those described herein, can be readily selected for use
with the active ingredients of the invention. The invention thus encompasses single unit dosage
forms suitable for oral administration such as, but not limited to, tablets, capsules, gelcaps, and
caplets that are further adapted for modified release.
[0162]       In some embodiments, the modified release systems are formulated to release the
compound at a duration of about 30 minutes, about 40 minutes, about 50 minutes, about 60
minutes, about 70 minutes, about 80 minutes, about 90 minutes, about 100 minutes, about 110
minutes, about 120 minutes, about 130 minutes, about 140 minutes, about 150 minutes, about
 160 minutes, about 170 minutes, about 180 minutes, about 190 minutes, about 200 minutes,
about 210 minutes, about 220 minutes, about 230 minutes, about 240 minutes, about 250
                                                 - 39 -

minutes, about 260 minutes, about 270 minutes, about 280 minutes, about 290 minutes, about
300 minutes, about 310 minutes, about 320 minutes, about 330 minutes, about 340 minutes,
about 350 minutes, about 360 minutes, about 370 minutes, about 380 minutes, about 390
minutes, about 400, about 400, about 410, or about 420 minutes subsequent to onset of the
release. In embodiments with multiple releases, modified release systems are formulated to
release at more than one durations of time at different time points.
[0163]      In one non-limiting example, chitosan and mixtures of chitosan with
carboxymethylcellulose sodium (CMC-Na) have been used as vehicles for the sustained release
of active ingredients, as described by Inouye et al., Drug Design and Delivery 1: 297-305, 1987.
Mixtures of these compounds and agents of the combinations of the invention, when compressed
under 200 kg/cm2, form a tablet from which the active agent is slowly released upon
administration to a patient. The release profile can be changed by varying the ratios of chitosan,
CMC-Na, and active agent(s). The tablets can also contain other additives, including lactose,
CaHPO4 dihydrate, sucrose, crystalline cellulose, or croscarmellose sodium.
[0164]      In another non-limiting example, Baichwal, in U.S. Pat. No. 6,245,356, describes
sustained release oral, solid dosage forms that include agglomerated particles of a therapeutically
active medicament in amorphous form, a gelling agent, an ionizable gel strength enhancing agent
and an inert diluent. The gelling agent can be a mixture of a xanthan gum and a locust bean gum
capable of cross-linking with the xanthan gum when the gums are exposed to an environmental
fluid. Preferably, the ionizable gel enhancing agent acts to enhance the strength of cross-linking
between the xanthan gum and the locust bean gum and thereby prolonging the release of the
medicament component of the formulation. In addition to xanthan gum and locust bean gum,
acceptable gelling agents that may also be used include those gelling agents well known in the
art. Examples include naturally occurring or modified naturally occurring gums such as
alginates, carrageenan, pectin, guar gum, modified starch, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose,
methylcellulose, and other cellulosic materials or polymers, such as, for example, sodium
carboxymethylcellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose, and mixtures of the foregoing.
[0165]      In another non-limiting formulation useful for the combinations of the invention,
Baichwal and Staniforth in U.S. Pat. No. 5,135,757 describe a free-flowing slow release
granulation for use as a pharmaceutical excipient that includes from about 20 to about 70 percent
                                                -40-

or more by weight of a hydrophilic material that includes a heteropolysaccharide (such as, for
example, xanthan gum or a derivative thereof) and a polysaccharide material capable of cross
linking the heteropolysaccharide (such as, for example, galactomannans, and most preferably
locust bean gum) in the presence of aqueous solutions, and from about 30 to about 80 percent by
weight of an inert pharmaceutical-filler (such as, for example, lactose, dextrose, sucrose, sorbitol,
xylitol, fructose or mixtures thereof). After mixing the excipient with a tricyclic
compound/corticosteroid combination, or combination agent, of the invention, the mixture is
directly compressed into solid dosage forms such as tablets. The tablets thus formed slowly
release the medicament when ingested and exposed to gastric fluids. By varying the amount of
excipient relative to the medicament, a slow release profile can be attained.
[0166]       Slow-release formulations can also include a coating which is not readily water
soluble but which is slowly attacked and removed by water, or through which water can slowly
permeate. Thus, for example, the combinations of the invention can be spray-coated with a
solution of a binder under continuously fluidizing conditions, such as describe by Kitamori et al.,
U.S. Pat. No. 4,036,948. Examples of water-soluble binders include pregelatinized starch (e.g.,
pregelatinized corn starch, pregelatinized white potato starch), pregelatinized modified starch,
water-soluble celluloses (e.g. hydroxypropyl-cellulose, hydroxymethyl-cellulose,
hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose, carboxymethyl-cellulose), polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinyl
alcohol, dextrin, gum arabicum and gelatin, organic solvent-soluble binders, such as cellulose
derivatives (e.g., cellulose acetate phthalate, hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose phthalate,
ethylcellulose).
[0167]       In another non-limiting example, Villa et al., in U.S. Pat. No. 6,773,720, describes a
modified-release system containing an inner lipophilic matrix where an active ingredient is
inglobated and an outer hydrophilic matrix in which the lipophilic matrix is dispersed. An active
ingredient, such as a biguanide or related heterocyclic compound, is first inglobated in a low
melting lipophlilic excipient or mixture of excipients while heating to soften and/or melt the
excipient itself, which thereby incorporates the active ingredient by simple dispersion. After
cooling at room temperature, an inert matrix forms, which can be reduced in size to obtain matrix
granules containing the active ingredient particles. The inert matrix granules are subsequently
mixed together with one or more hydrophilic water-swellable excipients. In this respect, when
the composition is contacted with biological fluids, a high viscosity swollen layer is formed,
                                                 -41-

which coordinates the solvent molecules and acts as a barrier to penetration of the aqueous fluid
itself inside the new structure. Said barrier antagonizes the staring "burst effect" caused by
dissolution of the active ingredient inglobated inside the inert matrix, which is in its turn inside
the hydrophilic matrix. One commercially available system of this type is from Cosmo
Technologies Limited (Italy) under the trade name MMX@ technology. The
lipophilic/hydrophilic matrices can be further enterically coated for pH specific delivery.
[0168]       Formulations for upper intestinal delivery, lower intestinal delivery or both are known
in the art. Targeting of active ingredients to various regions of the gut is described, e.g., in The
Encyclopedia of Pharmaceutical Technology, by James Swarbrick and James Boylan, Informa
Health Care, 1999, at pp. 287-308. Any suitable formulation for gastrointestinal delivery for site
specific delivery and/or specific temporal delivery (i.e. delayed, controlled, extended, or
sustained release) can be used with the invention and is contemplated herein.
[0169]       Any of the delivery systems described herein may be used in combination with others
to achieve multiple releases and/or specific release profiles. In some embodiments, the biguanide
compound is in a formulation that achieves multiple releases in gastrointestinal locations
following administration. In certain embodiments, the biguanide compound is in a multiple
release formulation that releases at an onset of about 10 minutes, about 30 minutes, about 120
minutes, about 180 minutes, about 240 minutes, or combinations thereof following
administration. In certain embodiments, the biguanide compound is in a multiple release
formulation that releases at an onset of about 5 to about 45 minutes, about 105 to about 135
minutes, about 165 to about 195 minutes, about 225 to about 255 minutes, or combinations
thereof following administration.
[0170]       In certain embodiments, the biguanide compound is in a multiple release formulation
that releases in the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, lower intestine or combinations thereof following
administration. In yet other embodiments, the biguanide compound is in a multiple release
formulation that releases at an onset of about pH 5.5, about pH 6.0, at about pH 6.5, about pH
7.0, or combinations thereof following administration. In yet other embodiments, the biguanide
compound is in a multiple release formulation that releases in ranges at about pH 5.0 to about pH
6.0, about pH 6.0 to about pH 7.0, about pH 7.0 to about pH 8.0, or combinations thereof
following administration. In yet other embodiments, the biguanide compound is in a multiple
                                                 -42-

release formulation that releases a fraction or portion of the biguanide as an immediate release
with the rest of the compound released in a delayed manner as described herein.
[0171]       Oral Dosage Forms
[0172]       Oral dosage forms suitable for use in the subject compositions and methods include
tablets, hard capsules, push-fit capsules made of gelatin, as well as soft, sealed capsules made of
gelatin and a plasticizer, such as glycerol or sorbitol, as well as troches, lozenges, aqueous or oily
suspensions, dispersible powders or granules, emulsions, syrups or elixirs. Suitable oral dosage
forms can be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of
pharmaceutical compositions, and such compositions can contain one or more agents selected
from, by way of non-limiting example, sweetening agents, flavoring agents, coloring agents and
preserving agents in order to provide pharmaceutically elegant and palatable preparations.
[0173]       Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture with pharmaceutically acceptable
excipients which are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. These excipients can be, for
example, inert diluents, such as calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, lactose, calcium phosphate
or sodium phosphate; granulating and disintegrating agents, such as microcrystalline cellulose,
sodium crosscarmellose, corn starch, or alginic acid; binding agents, for example starch, gelatin,
polyvinyl-pyrrolidone or acacia, and lubricating agents, for example, magnesium stearate, stearic
acid or talc. Tablets can be made by compression or molding, optionally with one or more
accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets can be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine
the active ingredient in a free-flowing form such as a powder or granules, optionally mixed with
binders (e.g., povidone, gelatin, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose), inert diluents, preservatives,
disintegrants (e.g., sodium starch glycolate, cross-linked povidone, cross-linked sodium
carboxymethyl cellulose) or lubricating, surface active or dispersing agents. Molded tablets can
be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with
an inert liquid diluent. The tablets are coated by known techniques to delay disintegration and
absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby minimize systemic bioavailability as
described more fully herein.
[0174]       Formulations for oral use can also be presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the
active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent, for example, calcium carbonate, calcium
phosphate or kaolin, or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with water
                                                 -43-

soluble carrier such as polyethyleneglycol or an oil medium, for example peanut oil, liquid
paraffin, or olive oil. Alternatively, push-fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in
admixture with filler such as lactose, binders such as starches, and/or lubricants such as talc or
magnesium stearate and, optionally, stabilizers. In soft capsules, the active compounds can be
dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids, such as fatty oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid
polyethylene glycols. In addition, stabilizers can be added. Dragee cores are provided with
suitable coatings. For this purpose, concentrated sugar solutions can be used, which can
optionally contain gum arabic, talc, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, carbopol gel, polyethylene glycol,
and/or titanium dioxide, lacquer solutions, and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures.
Dyestuffs or pigments can be added to the tablets or Dragee coatings for identification or to
characterize different combinations of active compound doses.
[0175]       It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned
above, the compounds and compositions described herein can include other agents conventional
in the art having regard to the type of formulation in question, for example those suitable for oral
administration can include flavoring agents.
[0176]       In various embodiments, the compositions provided herein are in liquid form. Liquid
forms include, by way of non-limiting example, neat liquids, solutions, suspensions, dispersions,
colloids, foams and the like. In certain instances, liquid forms contain also a nutritional
component or base (e.g., derived from milk, yogurt, shake, or juice). In some aspects, the
compound are micronized or as nanoparticles in the liquid form. In certain instances, the
compounds may be coated to mask the tastant properties. In other instances, the compounds are
coated to modify delivery to the intestine and colon.
[0177]       Aqueous solutions or suspensions contain the active ingredient(s) in admixture with
excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients are suspending
agents, for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, sodium alginate, polyvinyl-pyrrolidone, gum tragacanth and
gum acacia; dispersing or wetting agents can be a naturally-occurring phosphatide, for example
lecithin, or condensation products of an alkylene oxide with fatty acids, for example
polyoxyethylene stearate, or condensation products of ethylene oxide with long chain aliphatic
alcohols, for example heptadecaethylene-oxycetanol, or condensation products of ethylene oxide
                                                 - 44 -

with partial esters derived from fatty acids and a hexitol such as polyoxyethylene sorbitol
monooleate, or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty
acids and hexitol anhydrides, for example polyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The aqueous
solutions or suspensions can also contain one or more preservatives, for example ethyl, or n
propyl p-hydroxybenzoate, one or more coloring agents, one or more flavoring agents, and one
or more sweetening agents, such as sucrose, saccharin or aspartame. In certain instances, the
flavoring agents are the compounds.
[0178]       Oily suspensions can be formulated by suspending the active ingredient(s) in a
vegetable oil, for example arachis oil, olive oil, sesame oil or coconut oil, or in mineral oil such
as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions can contain a thickening agent, for example beeswax,
hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those set forth above, and flavoring
agents can be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions can be preserved
by the addition of an anti-oxidant such as butylated hydroxyanisol or alpha-tocopherol.
[0179]       Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous solutions or
suspension by the addition of water provide the active ingredient in admixture with a dispersing
or wetting agent, suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Suitable dispersing or wetting
agents and suspending agents are exemplified by those already mentioned above. Additional
excipients, for example sweetening, flavoring and coloring agents, can also be present. These
compositions can be preserved by the addition of an antioxidant such as ascorbic acid.
[0180]       Compositions can also be in the form of an oil-in-water emulsion. The oily phase can
be a vegetable oil, for example olive oil or arachis oil, or a mineral oil, for example liquid
paraffin or mixtures of these. Suitable emulsifying agents can be naturally-occurring
phosphatides, for example soy bean lecithin, and esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids
and hexitol anhydrides, for example sorbitan monooleate, and condensation products of the said
partial esters with ethylene oxide, for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The
emulsions can also contain sweetening agents, flavoring agents, preservatives and antioxidants.
[0181]       Syrups and elixirs can be formulated with sweetening agents, for example glycerol,
propylene glycol, sorbitol or sucrose. Such formulations can also contain a demulcent, a
preservative, flavoring and coloring agents and antioxidant.
                                                -45-

[0182]       Compositions can also be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or
retention enemas, e.g., containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter,
polyethylene glycol, or other glycerides. These compositions can be prepared by mixing the
inhibitors with a suitable non-irritating excipient which is solid at ordinary temperatures but
liquid at the rectal temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum to release the drug. Such
materials include cocoa butter, glycerinated gelatin, hydrogenated vegetable oils, mixtures of
polyethylene glycols of various molecular weights and fatty acid esters of polyethylene glycol.
[0183]       Accordingly, pharmaceutical compositions are also provided comprising the
biguanide compound in a delayed-release formulation suitable for oral administration such as a
tablet, capsule, cachet, pill, lozenge, powder or granule, solution, liquid, or suspension. The
pharmaceutical composition is preferably in a unit dosage form suitable for single administration
of precise dosages, e.g., 100 mg, 200 mg, 250, mg, 300 mg, 400 mg, 500 mg, 600 mg, 750 mg,
800 mg, or 1000 mg of the desired biguanide compound, particularly metformin, phenformin,
buformin or imeglimin or a salt thereof. The pharmaceutical composition may comprise
conventional pharmaceutical carriers or excipients and the biguanide compound according to the
invention as an active ingredient. They may further comprise other medicinal or pharmaceutical
agents, carriers, adjuvants, etc.
[0184]       Suitable carriers include inert diluents or fillers, water and various organic solvents.
The compositions can, if desired, contain additional ingredients such as flavorings, binders,
excipients and the like. Thus for oral administration, tablets containing various excipients, such
as citric acid can be employed together with various disintegrants such as starch or other
cellulosic material, alginic acid and certain complex silicates and with binding agents such as
sucrose, gelatin and acacia. Additionally, lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate, sodium
lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tableting purposes. Other reagents such as an inhibitor,
surfactant or solubilizer, plasticizer, stabilizer, viscosity increasing agent, or film forming agent
can also be added. Solid compositions of a similar type can also be employed in soft and hard
filled gelatin capsules. Materials include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight
polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration
the active compound therein can be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents,
coloring matters or dyes and, if desired, emulsifying agents or suspending agents, together with
diluents such as water, ethanol, propylene glycol, glycerin, or combinations thereof.
                                                   -46-

[0185]      Excipients
[0186]       Any of the compositions or formulations described herein include any commonly
used excipients in pharmaceutics and are selected on the basis of compatibility with the active
agent(s) and release profile properties of the desired dosage form. Excipients include, but are not
limited to, binders, fillers, flow aids/glidents, disintegrants, lubricants, stabilizers, surfactants,
and the like. A summary of excipients described herein, may be found, for example in
Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, Nineteeth Ed (Easton, PA: Mack Publishing
Company, 1995); Hoover, John E., Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, (Easton, PA: Mack
Publishing Co 1975); Liberman, H.A. and Lachman, L., Eds., Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms
(New York, NY: Marcel Decker 1980); and Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms and Drug Delivery
Systems, Seventh Ed (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins 1999), herein incorporated by reference in
their entirety.
[0187]       Binders impart cohesive qualities and include, e.g., alginic acid and salts thereof;
cellulose derivatives such as carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose (e.g., Methocel@),
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose (e.g., Klucel@),
ethylcellulose (e.g., Ethocel@), and microcrystalline cellulose (e.g., Avicel®); microcrystalline
dextrose; amylose; magnesium aluminum silicate; polysaccharide acids; bentonites; gelatin;
polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer; crospovidone; povidone; starch; pregelatinized
starch; tragacanth, dextrin, a sugar, such as sucrose (e.g., Dipac®), glucose, dextrose, molasses,
mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol (e.g., Xylitab@), and lactose; a natural or synthetic gum such as acacia,
tragacanth, ghatti gum, mucilage of isapol husks, polyvinylpyrrolidone (e.g., Polyvidone® CL,
Kollidon® CL, Polyplasdone@ XL-10), larch arabogalactan, Veegum®, polyethylene glycol,
waxes, sodium alginate, and the like.
[0188]       Disintegrants facilitate breakup or disintegration of oral solid dosage forms after
administration. Examples of disintegrants include a starch, e.g., a natural starch such as corn
starch or potato starch, a pregelatinized starch such as National 1551 or Amijel®, or sodium
starch glycolate such as Promogel® or Explotab®; a cellulose such as a wood product,
methylcrystalline cellulose, e.g., Avice10, Avicel® PH101, Avicel® PH102, Avicel® PH105,
Elcema® P100, Emcocel@, Vivacel®, Ming Tia®, and Solka-Floc®, methylcellulose,
croscarmellose, or a cross-linked cellulose, such as cross-linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose
                                                  -47-

(Ac-Di-Solt), cross-linked carboxymethylcellulose, or cross-linked croscarmellose; a cross
linked starch such as sodium starch glycolate; a cross-linked polymer such as crospovidone; a
cross-linked polyvinylpyrrolidone; alginate such as alginic acid or a salt of alginic acid such as
sodium alginate; a clay such as Veegum@ HV (magnesium aluminum silicate); a gum such as
agar, guar, locust bean, Karaya, pectin, or tragacanth; sodium starch glycolate; bentonite; a
natural sponge; a resin such as a cation-exchange resin; citrus pulp; sodium lauryl sulfate;
sodium lauryl sulfate in combination starch; and the like.
[0189]       Lubricants are compounds which prevent, reduce or inhibit adhesion or friction of
materials. Exemplary lubricants include, e.g., stearic acid; calcium hydroxide; talc; sodium
stearyl fumerate; a hydrocarbon such as mineral oil, hydrogenated castor oil or hydrogenated
vegetable oil such as hydrogenated soybean oil (Sterotex@); higher fatty acids and their alkali
metal and alkaline earth metal salts, such as aluminum, calcium, magnesium, zinc; stearic acid,
sodium stearates, magnesium stearates, glycerol, talc, waxes, Stearowet® boric acid, sodium
benzoate, sodium acetate, sodium chloride, leucine, a polyethylene glycol or a
methoxypolyethylene glycol such as CarbowaxTM, ethylene oxide polymers, sodium oleate,
glyceryl behenate (E.g. Compritol 888 Ato), glyceryl disterate (Precirol Ato 5), polyethylene
glycol, magnesium or sodium lauryl sulfate, colloidal silica such as SyloidTM, Carb-O-Sil0,
DL-leucine, a starch such as corn starch, silicone oil, a surfactant, and the like.
[0190]       Flow-aids or glidants improve the flow characteristics of powder mixtures. Such
compounds include, e.g., colloidal silicon dioxide such as Cab-o-sil@; tribasic calcium
phosphate, talc, corn starch, DL-leucine, sodium lauryl sulfate, magnesium stearate, calcium
stearate, sodium stearate, kaolin, and micronized amorphous silicon dioxide (Syloid@)and the
like.
[0191]       Plasticizers aid in coating of oral solid dosage forms. Exemplary plasticizers include,
but are not limited to, triethyl citrate, triacetin (glyceryl triacetate), acetyl triethyl citrate,
polyethylene glycols (PEG 4000, PEG 6000, PEG 8000), Carbowax 400 (polyethylene glycol
400), diethyl phthalate, diethyl sebacate, acetyltriethylcitrate, oleic acid, glyceralmonosterate,
tributyl citrate, acetylated monoglycerides, glycerol, fatty acid esters, propylene glycol, and
dibutyl phthalate and the like.
                                                    -48-

[01921       The aforementioned excipients are given as examples only and are not meant to
include all possible choices. Other suitable excipient classes include coloring agents, granulating
agents, preservatives, anti-foaming agents, solubulizers and the like. Additionally, many
excipients can have more than one role or function, or can be classified in more than one group;
the classifications are descriptive only, and are not intended to limit any use of a particular
excipient.
[0193]       Combination therapies
[0194]       The compositions of the embodiments described herein may be co-administered with
known therapies for the treatment of any of the conditions described herein. Co-administration
can also provide for additive or synergistic effects, resulting in the need for lower dosages of a
known therapy, the compositions described herein, or both. Additional benefits of
co-administration include the reduction in toxicities associated with any of the known therapies.
[0195]       Co-administration includes simultaneous administration in separate compositions,
administration at different times in separate compositions, or administration in a composition in
which both agents are present. Thus, in some embodiments, compositions described herein and a
known therapy are administered in a single treatment. In some embodiments, the compositions
described herein and a known therapy are admixed in a resulting composition. In some
embodiments, compositions described herein and the known therapy are administered in separate
compositions or administrations.
[0196]       Administration of compositions described herein and known therapies described
herein may be by any suitable means. Administration of a composition described herein and a
second compound (e.g., diabetes drug or obesity drug) may be by any suitable means. If the
compositions described herein and a second compound are administered as separate
compositions, they may be administered by the same route or by different routes. If the
compositions described herein and a second compound are administered in a single composition,
they may be administered by any suitable route such as, for example, oral administration. In
certain embodiments, compositions of metformin or an analog thereof (including salts, solvates,
polymorphs, hydrates, N-oxides, or prodrugs thereof) and second compounds can be
administered to the same region or different regions of the gastrointestinal tract. For example,
metformin or an analog thereof (including salts, solvates, polymorphs, hydrates, N-oxides, or
                                                 -49-

prodrugs thereof)s can be administered in combination with an anti-diabetic drug to be delivered
to the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, or colon.
[0197]        Therapies, drugs and compounds useful for the treatment of hyperglycemia and/or
diseases or conditions associated therewith, e.g., diabetes may be administered with the
compositions disclosed herein. Diabetic drugs and compounds include, but are not limited to,
those that decrease triglyceride concentrations, decrease glucose concentrations, and/or modulate
insulin (e.g. stimulate insulin production, mimic insulin, enhance glucose-dependent insulin
secretion, suppress glucagon secretion or action, improve insulin action or insulin sensitizers, or
are exogenous forms of insulin).
[0198]       Drugs that decrease triglyceride level include but are not limited to ascorbic acid,
asparaginase, clofibrate, colestipol, fenofibrate mevastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin, fluvastatin,
or omega-3 fatty acid. Drugs that decrease LDL cholesterol level include but are not limited to
clofibrate, gemfibrozil, and fenofibrate, nicotinic acid, mevinolin, mevastatin, pravastatin,
simvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, cholestyrine, colestipol or probucol.
[0199]       In another aspect, compositions of the embodiments described herein may be
administered in combination with glucose-lowering compounds.
[0200]       The medication classes of thiazolidinediones (also called glitazones), sulfonylureas,
meglitinides, biguanides, alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, DPP-IV inhibitors, and incretin mimetics
have been used as adjunctive therapies for hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus (type 2) and
related diseases.
[0201]       Drugs that decrease glucose level include but are not limited to glipizides, glyburides,
exenatide (Byetta®), incretins, sitagliptin (Januvia®), pioglitizone, glimepiride, rosiglitazone,
metformin, vildagliptin, saxagliptin (OnglyzaTM), sulfonylureas, meglitinide (e.g., Prandin®)
glucosidase inhibitor, biguanides (e.g., Glucophage®), repaglinide, acarbose, troglitazone,
nateglinide, natural, synthetic or recombinant insulin and derivatives thereof, and amylin and
amylin derivatives.
[0202]       When administered sequentially, the combination may be administered in two or
more administrations. In an alternative embodiment, it is possible to administer one or more the
biguanide compounds and one or more additional active ingredients by different routes. The
                                                 - 50 -

skilled artisan will also recognize that a variety of active ingredients may be administered in
combination with one or more the biguanide compounds that may act to augment or
synergistically enhance the control prevention, amelioration, attenuation, or treatment of obesity
or eating disorders or conditions.
[0203]       According to the methods provided herein, when co-administered with at least one
other obesity reducing (or anti-obesity) or weight reducing drug, the compounds of the disclosure
may be: (1) co-formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined
formulation; (2) delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations; or (3) by any
other combination therapy regimen known in the art. When delivered in alternation therapy, the
methods provided may comprise administering or delivering the active ingredients sequentially,
e.g., in separate solution, emulsion, suspension, tablets, pills or capsules, or by different
injections in separate syringes. In general, during alternation therapy, an effective dosage of each
active ingredient is administered sequentially, i.e., serially, whereas in simultaneous therapy,
effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together. Various sequences
of intermittent combination therapy may also be used.
[0204]       In certain embodiments, compositions provided herein may be used with other
commercially available diet aids or other weight loss and/or anti-obesity agents, such as, by way
of example, PYY and PYY agonists, GLP- 1 and GLP- 1 agonists, a DPP-IV inhibitor, CCK and
CCK agonists, exendin and exendin agonists, GIP and GIP agonists, amylin and amylin agonists,
ghrelin modulators (e.g., inhibitors) and leptin and leptin agonists. In certain instances,
compositions comprising the biguanide compound provided herein are used in combination with
amylin, amylin agonists or mimetics. Exemplary amylin agonists or mimetics include
pramlintide and related compounds. In certain instances, the compounds and compositions
provided herein are used in combination with leptin, leptin agonists or mimetics. Additional
leptin agonists or mimetics can be identified using the methods described by U.S. Pat. No.
7,247,427 which is incorporated by reference herein. In further instances, the compounds and
compositions provided herein increase leptin sensitivity and increase effectiveness of leptin,
leptin agonists or mimetics.
[0205]       Additional anti-obesity agents suitable for use in the subjet methods include those that
are in current development. Other anti-obesity agents include phentermine, fenfluramine,
                                                 - 51 -

sibutramine, rimonabant, topiramate, zonisamide, bupropion, naltrexone, lorcaserin, or related
sympathomimetics and orlistat or other intestinal lipase inhibitors, alone or in combination.
Therapies, drugs and compounds useful for the treatment of weight loss, binge eating, food
addictions and cravings may be administered with the compositions described herein. For
example, the patient may further be administered at least one other drug which is known to
suppress hunger or control appetite. Such therapies drugs and compounds include but are not
limited to phenteramines such as Meridia@ and Xenical@. Additional therapies, drugs and
compounds are known in the art and contemplated herein.
[0206]       As such, in one aspect, the compound may be used as part of a combination therapy
for the control, prevention or treatment of obesity or eating disorders or conditions. Compounds
used as part of a combination therapy to treat obesity or reduce weight include, but are not
limited to, central nervous system agents that affect neurotransmitters or neural ion channels,
including antidepressants (bupropion), noradrenalin reuptake inhibitors (GW320659), selective
5HT 2c receptor agonists, antiseizure agents (topiramate, zonisamide), some dopamine
antagonists, and cannabinoid-1 receptor antagonists (CB-1 receptor antagonists) (rimonabant);
leptin/insulin/central nervous system pathway agents, including leptin analogues, leptin transport
and/or leptin receptor promoters, ciliary neurotrophic factor (Axokine), neuropeptide Y and
agouti-related peptide antagonists, pro-opiomelanocortin and cocaine and amphetamine
regulated transcript promoters, .alpha.-melanocyte-stimulating hormone analogues,
melanocoritin-4 receptor agonists, and agents that affect insulin metabolism/activity, which
include protein-tyrosine phosphatase-IB inhibitors, peroxisome proliferator activated receptor
gamma receptor antagonists, short-acting bromocriptine (ergoset), somatostatin agonists
(octreotide), and adiponectin/Acrp30 (Famoxin or Fatty Acid Metabolic Oxidation Inducer);
gastrointestinal-neural pathway agents, including those that increase cholecystokinin activity
(CCK), PYY activity, NPY activity, and PP activity, increase glucagon-like peptide-1 activity
(exendin 4, liraglutide, dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitors), and those that decrease ghrelin
activity, as well as amylin analogues (pramlintide); agents that may increase resting metabolic
rate (selective (3-3 stimulators/agonist, uncoupling protein homologues, and thyroid receptor
agonists); other more diverse agents, including melanin concentrating hormone antagonists,
phytostanol analogues, functional oils, P57, amylase inhibitors, growth hormone fragments,
synthetic analogues of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, antagonists of adipocyte 11B
                                                - 52 -

hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 activity, corticotropin-releasing hormone agonists,
inhibitors of fatty acid synthesis (cerulenin and C75), carboxypeptidase inhibitors,
indanone/indanols, amino sterols (trodusquemine/trodulamine), and other gastrointestinal lipase
inhibitors (ATL962); amphetamines, such as dextroamphetamine; other sympathomimetic
adrenergic agents, including phentermine, benzphetamine, phendimetrazine, mazindol, and
diethylpropion.
[0207]        Other compounds include ecopipam; oxyntomodulin (OM); inhibitors of glucose
dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP); gastrin-releasing peptide; neuromedin B;
enterostatin; amfebutamone, SR-5861 1; CP-045598; AOD-0604; QC-BT16; rGLP-1; 1426
(HMR- 1426); N,5984; ISIS- 113715; solabegron; SR- 147778; Org-34517; melanotan-II;
cetilistat; c-2735; c-5093; c,2624; APD-356; radafaxine; fluasterone; GP-389255; 856464; S
2367; AVE-1625; T-71; oleoyl-estrone; peptide YY [3-36] intranasal; androgen receptor
agonists; PYY 3-36; DOV-102677; tagatose; SLV-319; 1954 (Aventis Pharma AG);
oxyntomodulin, Thiakis; bromocriptine, PLIVA; diabetes/hyperlipidemia therapy, Yissum;
CKD-502; thyroid receptor beta agonists; beta-3 adrenoceptor agonist; CDK-A agonists; galanin
antagonist; dopamine Dl/D2 agonists; melanocortin modulators; verongamine; neuropeptide Y
antagonists; melanin-concentrating hormone receptor antagonists; dual PPAR alpha/gamma
agonists; CGEN-P-4; kinase inhibitors; human MCH receptor antagonists; GHS-R antagonists;
ghrelin receptor agonists; DG70 inhibitors; cotinine; CRF-BP inhibitors; urocortin agonists;
UCL-2000; impentamine; .beta.-3 adrenergic receptor; pentapeptide MC4 agonists;
trodusquemine; GT-2016; C-75; CPOP; MCH-1 receptor antagonists; RED-103004;
aminosterols; orexin-1 antagonists; neuropeptide Y5 receptor antagonists; DRF-4158; PT-15;
PTPase inhibitors; A37215; SA-0204; glycolipid metabolites; MC-4 agonist; produlestan; PTP
 1B inhibitors; GT-2394; neuropeptide Y5 antagonists; melanocortin receptor modulators; MLN
4760; PPAR gamma/delta dual agonists; NPY5RA-972; 5-HT2C receptor agonist; neuropeptide
Y5 receptor antagonists (phenyl urea analogs); AGRP/MC4 antagonists; neuropeptide Y5
antagonists (benzimidazole); glucocorticoid antagonists; MCHR1 antagonists; Acetyl-CoA
carboxylase inhibitors; R-1496; HOBI modulators; NOX-B 11; peptide YY 3-36 (eligen); 5-HT
 1 modulators; pancreatic lipase inhibitors; GRC-1087; CB-1 antagonists; MCH-1 antagonists;
LY-448 100; bombesin BRS3 agonists; ghrelin antagonists; MC4 antagonists; stearoyl-CoA
desaturase modulators; H3 histamine antagonists; PPARpan agonists; EP-01492; hormone
                                                - 53 -

sensitive lipase inhibitors; fatty acid-binding protein 4 inhibitors; thiolactone derivatives; protein
tyrosine phosphatase lB inhibitors; MCH-1 antagonist; P-64; PPAR gamma ligands; melanin
concentrating hormone antagonists; thiazole gastroprokinetics; PA-452; T-226296; A-331440;
immunodrug vaccines; diabetes/obesity therapeutics (Bioagency, Biofrontera Discovery GmbH);
P-7 (Genfit); DT-01 1 M; PTPlB inhibitor; anti-diabetic peptide conjugates; KATP agonists;
obesity therapeutics (Lexicon); 5-HT2 agonists; MCH-1 receptor antagonists; GMAD-1/GMAD
2; STG-a-MD; neuropeptide Y antagonist; angiogenesis inhibitors; G protein-coupled receptor
agonists; nicotinic therapeutics (ChemGenex); anti-obesity agents (Abbott); neuropeptide Y
modulators; melanin concentrating hormone; GW-594884A; MC-4R agonist; histamine H3
antagonists; orphan GPCR modulators; MITO-3108; NLC-002; HE-2300; IGF/IBP-2-13; 5
HT2C agonists; ML-22952; neuropeptide Y receptor antagonists; AZ-40140; anti-obesity
therapy (Nisshin Flour); GNTI; melanocortin receptor modulators; alpha-amylase inhibitors;
neuropeptide Y1 antagonist; beta-3 adrenoceptor agonists; ob gene products (Eli Lilly & Co.);
SWR-0342-SA; beta-3 adrenoceptor agonist; SWR-0335; SP-18904; oral insulin mimetics; beta
3 adrenoceptor agonists; NPY-1 antagonists; .beta.-3 agonists; obesity therapeutics (7TM
Pharma); 1 lbeta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD) 1 inhibitors; QRX-431; E-6776; RI-450;
melanocortin-4 antagonists; melanocortin 4 receptor agonists; obesity therapeutics (CuraGen);
leptin mimetics; A-74498; second-generation leptin; NBI-103; CL-314698; CP-114271; beta-3
adrenoceptor agonists; NMI 8739; UCL-1283; BMS-192548; CP-94253; PD-160170; nicotinic
agonist; LG-100754; SB-226552; LY-355124; CKD-711; L-751250; PPAR inhibitors; G-protein
therapeutics; obesity therapy (Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc.); BW-1229; monoclonal antibody
(ObeSys/CAT); L-742791; (S)sibutramine; MBU-23; YM-268; BTS-78050; tubby-like protein
genes; genomics (eating disorders; Allelix/Lilly); MS-706; GI-264879A; GW-409890; FR-79620
analogs; obesity therapy (Hybrigenics SA); ICI-198157; ESP-A; 5-HT2C agonists; PD-170292;
AIT-202; LG- 100641; GI- 181771; anti-obesity therapeutics (Genzyme); leptin modulator;
GHRH mimetics; obesity therapy (Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd.); SB-251023; CP
331684; BIBO-3304; cholesten-3-ones; LY-362884; BRL-48962; NPY-1 antagonists; A-71378;
.RTM.-didesmethylsibutramine; amide derivatives; obesity therapeutics (Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co.); obesity therapeutics (Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc.); LY-226936; NPY antagonists; CCK-A
agonists; FPL-14294; PD-145942; ZA-7114; CL-316243; SR-58878; R-1065; BIBP-3226; HP
228; talibegron; FR-165914; AZM-008; AZM-016; AZM-120; AZM-090; vomeropherin; BMS
                                                 - 54 -

 187257; D-3800; AZM-131; gene discovery (Axys/Glaxo); BRL-26830A; SX-013; ERR
modulators; adipsin; AC-253; A-71623; A-68552; BMS-210285; TAK-677; MPV-1743; obesity
therapeutics (Modex); GI-248573; AZM-134; AZM-127; AZM-083; AZM-132; AZM- 115;
exopipam; SSR-125180; obesity therapeutics (Melacure Therapeutics AB); BRL-35135; SR
 146131; P-57; AZM-140; CGP-71583A; RF-1051; BMS-196085; manifaxine; beta-3 agonists;
DMINJ (Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology); BVT-5182; LY-255582;
SNX,024; galanin antagonists; neurokinin-3 antagonists; dexfenfluramine; mazindol;
diethylpropion; phendimetrazine; benzphetamine; amfebutmone; sertraline; metformin; AOD
9604; ATL-062; BVT,933; GT389-255; SLV319; HE-2500; PEG-axokine; L-796568; and
ABT-239.
[0208]       In some embodiments, compounds for use in combination with a composition
comprising the biguanide compound provided herein include rimonabant, sibutramine, orlistat,
PYY or an analog thereof, CB-1 antagonist, leptin, phentermine, and exendin analogs.
Exemplary dosing ranges include phentermine resin (30 mg in the morning), fenfluramine
hydrochloride (20 mg three times a day), and a combination of phentermine resin (15 mg in the
morning) and Lorcaserin(30 mg before the evening meal), and sibutramine (10-20 mg).
Weintraub et al. (1984) Arch. Intern. Med. 144:1143-1148.
[0209]       In further embodiments, compounds for use in combination with a composition
provided herein include GPR1 19 agonists (e.g., anandamide; AR-231, 453; MBX-2982;
Oleoylethanolamide; PSN-365,963; PSN-632,408; palmitoylethanolamide), GPR120 agonists
(e.g., omega-3 fatty acids including, but not limited to, a-linolenic acid, docosapentaenoic acid,
docosahexaenoic acid, eicosatrienoic acid, eicosatetraenoic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid,
heneicosapentaenoic acid, hexadecatrienoic acid, stearidonic acid, tetracosahexaenoic acid and
tetracosapentaenoic acid), and GPR 40, GPR41 and GPR 43 agonists (e.g., free fatty acids
including short-, medium-, and long-chain saturated and unsaturated fatty acids).
[0210]       In some embodiments, a composition provided herein is used as an adjunctive therapy
to a bariatric surgical procedure. Bariatric surgery is a procedure for weight loss and relates to
modifications with the gastrointestinal tract and includes such procedures as gastric banding,
sleeve gastrectomy, GI bypass procedure (e.g., roux en Y, biliary duodenal bypass, loop gastric
bypass), intragastric balloon, vertical banded, gastroplasty, endoluminal sleeve, biliopancreatic
                                                - 55 -

diversion, and the like. In certain instances, a the composition provided herein is adjunctive to
gastric banding. In certain instances, a composition is adjunctive to GI bypass procedures. In yet
other instances, a composition provided herein is adjunctive to sleeve gastrectomy. In certain
embodiments, a composition provided herein as an adjunctive therapy to bariatric surgery is
administered prior to the bariatric procedure. In certain embodiments, a composition provided
herein as an adjunctive therapy to bariatric surgery is administered after the bariatric procedure.
In certain instances, when used as adjunctive therapy, the dosage and amounts of a composition
provided herein may be adjusted as needed with respect to the bariatric procedure. For example,
amounts of a composition provided herein administered as an adjunct therapy to a bariatric
procedure may be reduced by one-half of normal dosages or as directed by a medical
professional.
[0211]       Combination therapy can be exploited, for example, in modulating metabolic
syndrome (or treating metabolic syndrome and its related symptoms, complications and
disorders), wherein the compositions provided herein can be effectively used in combination
with, for example, the active agents discussed above for modulating, preventing or treating
diabetes, obesity, hyperlipidemia, atherosclerosis, and/or their respective related symptoms,
complications and disorders.
[0212]       Methods for Evaluating Treatment
[0213]       Evaluation of Treatment of Diabetes
[0214]       The effect of the biguanide compound treatment of the invention on aspects of
diabetic disease can be evaluated according to methods known in the art and common practiced
by physicians treating diabetic patients.
[0215]       Efficacy of treatment of diabetes/metabolic syndrome and diabetes-associated
conditions with the compositions and methods described herein can be assessed using assays and
methodologies known in the art. By way of example, quantitative assessment of renal function
and parameters of renal dysfunction are well known in the art. Examples of assays for the
determination of renal function/dysfunction include serum creatinine level; creatinine clearance
rate; cystatin C clearance rate, 24-hour urinary creatinine clearance, 24-hour urinary protein
secretion; Glomerular filtration rate (GFR); urinary albumin creatinine ratio (ACR); albumin
excretion rate (AER); and renal biopsy.
                                                  - 56 -

[0216]       Quantitative assessment of pancreatic function and parameters of pancreatic
dysfunction or insufficiency are also well known in the art. Examples of assays for the
determination of pancreas function/dysfunction include evaluating pancreatic functions using
biological and/or physiological parameters such as assessment of islets of Langerhans size,
growth and/or secreting activity, beta-cells size, growth and/or secreting activity, insulin
secretion and circulating blood levels, glucose blood levels, imaging of the pancreas, and
pancreas biopsy, glucose uptake studies by oral glucose challenge, assessment of cytokine
profiles, blood-gas analysis, extent of blood-perfusion of tissues, and angiogenesis within tissues.
[0217]       Additional assays for treatment of diabetes and diabetes-associated conditions are
known in the art and are contemplated herein.
[0218]       Evaluation of Treatment of Weight Loss, Obesity and EatingDisorders
[0219]       In treatment of obesity it is desired that weight and/or fat is reduced in a patient. By
reducing weight it is meant that the patient loses a portion of his/her total body weight over the
course of treatment (whether the course of treatment be days, weeks, months or years).
Alternatively, reducing weight can be defined as a decrease in proportion of fat mass to lean
mass (in other words, the patient has lost fat mass, but maintained or gained lean mass, without
necessarily a corresponding loss in total body weight). An effective amount of a the biguanide
compound treatment administered in this embodiment is an amount effective to reduce a patient's
body weight over the course of the treatment, or alternatively an amount effective to reduce the
patient's percentage of fat mass over the course of the treatment. In certain embodiments, the
patient's body weight is reduced, over the course of treatment, by at least about 1%, by at least
about 5%, by at least about 10%, by at least about 15%, or by at least about 20%. Alternatively,
the patient's percentage of fat mass is reduced, over the course of treatment, by at least 1%, at
least 5%, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, or at least 25%.
[0220]        Total body weight and fat content can be measured at the end of the dietary period.
In rats, a frequently used method to determine total body fat is to surgically remove and weigh
the retroperitoneal fat pad, a body of fat located in the retroperitoneum, the area between the
posterior abdominal wall and the posterior parietal peritoneum. The pad weight is considered to
be directly related to percent body fat of the animal. Since the relationship between body weight
                                                  - 57 -

and body fat in rats is linear, obese animals have a correspondingly higher percent of body fat
and retroperitoneal fat pad weight.
[0221]       In embodiments wherein methods of treating, reducing, or preventing food cravings
in a patient are provided, food cravings can be measured by using a questionnaire, whether
known in the art or created by the person studying the food cravings. Such a questionnaire would
preferably rank the level of food cravings on a numerical scale, with the patient marking 0 if they
have no food cravings, and marking (if on a scale of 1-10) 10 if the patient has severe food
cravings. The questionnaire would preferably also include questions as to what types of food the
patient is craving. Binge eating can be determined or measured using a questionnaire and a Binge
Eating Scale (BES). Binge eating severity can be divided into three categories (mild, moderate,
and severe) based on the total BES score (calculated by summing the scores for each individual
item). Accordingly, methods are provided for reducing the BES score of a patient comprising
administering to a patient in need thereof a compound treatment in an amount effective to reduce
the BES score of the patient. In some embodiments, administration of a compound treatment
changes the BES category of the patient, for example, from severe to moderate, from severe to
mild, or from moderate to mild.
[0222]      Pre-TreatmentEvaluation ofPatientHormonalProfile
[0223]       In some embodiments, patients are pre-evaluated for expression of metabolic
hormones using methods described herein. The therapy provided to the individual can thus be
targeted to his or her specific needs. In embodiments, a patient's hormonal profile is pre
evaluated and depending on the changes that the physician desires to affect, a certain determined
amount of the compound/metabolite combination is administered. The evaluation process can be
repeated and the treatment adjusted accordingly at any time during or following treatment.
[0224]      Hormone Assays
[0225]       In embodiments, the levels of hormones assayed in association with the methods of
the invention, including, but not limited to, GLP-1, GLP-2, GIP, oxyntomodulin, PYY, CCK,
glycentin, insulin, glucagon, ghrelin, amylin, uroguanylin, C-peptide and/or combinations
thereof are detected according to standard methods described in the literature. For example,
proteins can be measured by immunological assays, and transcription products by nucleic acid
amplification techniques. Functional assays described in the art can also be used as appropriate.
                                                - 58 -

In embodiments, samples assayed comprise cultured cells, patient cell or tissue samples, patient
body fluids, e.g., blood or plasma, etc. Similarly, the levels of analytes (e.g., glucose,
triglycerides, HDL, LDL, apoB and the like) assayed in association with the methods of the
invention are detected according to any known method.
[0226]       For example, immunofluorescence can be used to assay for GLP-1. Cells can be
grown on matrigel-coated cover slips to confluent monolayers in 12-well plates at 37'C, fixed in
4% paraformaldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and incubated with primary antiserum
(e.g., rabbit anti-alpha gustducin, 1:150; Santa Cruz Biotechnology, and rabbit anti-GLP-1,
Phoenix) overnight at 4'C following permeabilization with 0.4% Triton-X in PBS for 10 minutes
and blocking for 1 hour at room temperature. Following three washing steps with blocking
buffer, the appropriate secondary antibody is applied (AlexaFluor 488 anti-rabbit
immunoglobulin, 1:1000; Molecular Probes) for 1 hour at room temperature. After three washing
steps, the cells can be fixed in Vectashield medium and the immunofluorescence visualized.
[0227]       GLP-1 RNA isolated from cells can be assayed using RT-PCR. RT-PCR RNA
isolation from cells can be performed using standard methodology. The RT-PCR reaction can be
performed in a volume of 50 pl in a Peltier thermal cycler (PTC-225 DNA Engine Tetrad Cycler;
MJ Research), using published primer sequences (Integrated DNA Technologies). Reverse
transcription can be performed at 50'C for 30 minutes; after an initial activation step at 95'C for
 15 minutes. PCR can be performed by denaturing at 94'C for 1 minute, annealing at 55 0 C for 1
minute and extension at 72'C for 1 minute for 40 cycles, followed by a final extension step at
72'C for 10 minutes. Negative controls can be included as appropriate, for example, by
substituting water for the omitted reverse transcriptase or template. The control can be RNA
isolated from, e.g., rat lingual epithelium. PCR products can be separated in 2% agarose gel with
ethidium bromide, and visualized under UV light.
[0228]       Radioimmunoassay (RIA) for total GLP-1 in patient blood samples can be performed
as described in the art, e.g., by Laferrere, et al., 2007, "Incretin Levels and Effect are Markedly
Enhanced 1 Month after Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass Surgery in Obese Patients with Type 2
Diabetes, Diabetes Care 30(7):1709-1716 (using commercially available materials obtained from
Phoenix Pharmaceutical, Belmont, CA). The authors describe measuring the effect of GIP and
GLP- 1 on secretion of insulin by measuring the difference in insulin secretion (area under the
                                                   - 59 -

curve, or AUC) in response to an oral glucose tolerance test and to an isoglycemic intravenous
glucose test.
[0229]       Measurement of plasma concentrations of GLP-1, GIP, glucagon, insulin, C peptide,
pancreatic peptide, nonesterified fatty acids, glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies, and islet
antigen antibodies, is described, e.g., by Toft-Nielsen, et al., 2001, "Determinants of the
Impaired Secretion of Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 in Type 2 Diabetic Patients," J. Clin. End. Met.
86(8):3717-3723. The authors describe the use of radioimmunoassay for GLP-1 to measure
plasma concentrations of amidated GLP-1-(7-36), using antibody code no. 89390. This assay
measures the sum of GLP- 1-(7-36) and its metabolite GLP- 1-(9-36). The authors describe
measurement of GIP using C-terminally directed antibody code no. R65 (RIA), that reacts 100%
with a human GIP but not with 8-kDA GIP.
[0230]       GLP-1 and PYY can be directly assayed in the supernatant from venous effluents as
described by, e.g., Claustre, et al. (1999, "Stimulatory effect of(3-adrenergic agonists on ileal L
cell secretion and modulation by a-adrenergic activation, J. Endocrin. 162:271-8). (See also
Plaisancie' et al., 1994, "Regulation of glucagon-like peptide-1-(7-36) amide secretion by
intestinal neurotransmitters and hormones in the isolated vascularly perfused rat colon,"
Endocrinology 135:2398-2403 and Plaisancie 'et al., 1995, "Release of peptide YY by
neurotransmitters and gut hormones in the isolated, vascularly perfused rat colon," Scandinavian
Journal of Gastroenterology 30:568-574.) In this method, the 199D anti-GLP-1 antibody is used
at a 1:250 000 dilution. This antibody reacts 100% with GLP-1-(7-36) amide, 84% with GLP-1
(1-36) amide, and less than 0.l1% with GLP-1-(1-37), GLP-1-(7-37), GLP-2, and glucagon. PYY
is assayed with the A4D anti-porcine PYY antiserum at a 1:800 000 dilution.
[0231]       Methods for assaying GLP-1 and GIP are also described elsewhere in the art, e.g., by
Jong, et al., PNAS, 2007.
[0232]       PYY can also be assayed in blood using a radioimmunoassay as described by, e.g.,
Weickert, et al., 2006, "Soy isoflavones increase preprandial peptide YY (PYY), but have no
effect on ghrelin and body weight in healthy postmenopausal women" Journal of Negative
Results in BioMedicine, 5:11. Blood is collected in ice-chilled EDTA tubes for the analysis of
glucose, ghrelin, and PYY. Following centrifugation at 1600 g for 10 minutes at 4'C, aliquots
were immediately frozen at -20'C until assayed. All samples from individual patients were
                                                 - 60 -

measured in the same assay. The authors described measuring immunoreactive total ghrelin was
measured by a commercially available radioimmunoassay (Phoenix Pharmaceuticals, Mountain
View, CA, USA). (See also Weickert, et al., 2006, "Cereal fiber improves whole-body insulin
sensitivity in overweight and obese women," Diabetes Care 29:775-780). Immunoreactive total
human PYY is measured by a commercially available radioimmunoassay (LINCO Research,
Missouri, USA), using 1251-labeled bioactive PYY as tracer and a PYY antiserum to determine
the level of active PYY by the double antibody/PEG technique. The PYY antibody is raised in
guinea pigs and recognizes both the PYY 1-36 and PYY 3-36 (active) forms of human PYY.
[0233]       SGLT-1, the intestinal sodium-dependent glucose transporter 1, is a protein involved
in providing glucose to the body. It has been reported to be expressed in response to sugar in the
lumen of the gut, through a pathway involving T1R3 (Margolskee, et al., 2007 "T1R3 and
gustducin in gut sense sugars to regulate expression of Na+-glucose cotransporter 1," Proc Natl
Acad Sci USA 104, 15075-15080"). Expression of SGLT-1 can be detected as described, e.g., by
Margolskee, et al., for example, using quantitative PCR and Western Blotting methods known in
the art. Measurement of glucose transport has been described in the literature, e.g., by Dyer, et
al., 1997, Gut 41:56-9 and Dyer, et al., 2003, Eur. J. Biochem 270:3377-88. Measurement of
glucose transport in brush border membrane vesicles can be made, e.g., by initiating D-glucose
uptake by the addition of 100 pl of incubation medium containing 100 mM NaSCN (or KSCN),
 100 mM mannitol, 20 mM Hepes/Tris (pH 7.4), 0.1 mM MgSO4, 0.02% (wt/vol) NaN3, and 0.1
mM D-[Ul4C]glucose to BBMV (100 pg of protein). The reaction is stopped after 3 see by
addition of 1 ml of ice-cold stop buffer, containing 150 mM KSCN, 20 mM Hepes/Tris (pH 7.4),
0.1 mM MgSO4, 0.02% (wt/vol) NaN3, and 0.1 mM phlorizin. A 0.9-ml portion of the reaction
mixture is removed and filtered under vacuum through a 0.22-[tm pore cellulose acetate/nitrate
filter (GSTF02500; Millipore, Bedford, MA). The filter is washed five times with 1 ml of stop
buffer, and the radioactivity retained on the filter is measured by liquid scintillation counting.
                                                 - 61  -

                                             EXAMPLES
[0234]       EXAMPLE 1: ENTEROENDOCRINE PRODUCTION OF PYY, GLP- 1 (Active)
AND GLP-1 (Total) AND REDUCTION OF GLUCOSE AND INSULIN IS INDEPENDENT
OF PLASMA ABSORPTION OF METFORMIN
[0235]       Example 1.1 Materials and Methods
[0236]       Population: Approximately 18 eligible male and female subjects, 18 to 65 years of
age, with a BMI of 25.0 to 35.0 kg/m 2, were randomized in this study. To be eligible, each
subject also met the following criteria: (a) was not breastfeeding; (b) had a negative pregnancy
test result (human chorionic gonadotropin, beta subunit); (c) surgically sterile, postmenopausal,
or if of childbearing potential, practiced appropriate birth control during the entire duration of the
study; (d) had a physical examination with no clinically significant abnormalities, including but
not limited to the following conditions: (i) Hepatic disease; (ii) Renal disease;
(iii) gastrointestinal disease; (iv) Endocrine disorder, including diabetes; (v) Cardiovascular
disease; (vi) Seizure disorder; (vii) Organ transplantation; and (viii) Chronic infection; and (e) an
ability to understand and willingness to adhere to protocol requirements.
[0237]       Formulations
[0238]       The metformin DR formulation was a US-supplied commercially available film
coated immediate-release tablet containing 500 mg metformin hydrochloride, to which additional
coatings (a seal coating and an enteric coating) were applied in order to delay release of the drug
in the GI tract until the tablet reached a pH 6.5 region of the distal small intestine. The tablets
were white, biconvex, circular-shaped coated tablets, each containing 500 mg metformin
hydrochloride. Inactive ingredients in the commercially available tablet included povidone,
magnesium stearate, hypromellose, and polyethylene glycol. Inactive ingredients in the
additional coating systems included hypromellose, triacetin, talc, methacrylic acid copolymer
(Eudragit@ L30 D-55), poly(methyl acrylate-co-methyl methacrylate-co-methacrylic acid) 7:3:1
(Eudragit@ FS 30 D), sodium lauryl sulfate, polysorbate 80, glyceryl monostearate, and triethyl
citrate.
[0239]       The metformin IR formulation was the identical US-supplied commercially available
film-coated immediate-release tablet containing 500 mg metformin hydrochloride, to which only
                                                 - 62 -

the additional seal coating is applied. No delayed-release (enteric) coating was applied. Inactive
ingredients in the additional seal coating system included hypromellose, triacetin and talc.
[0240]      The metformin formulations were supplied to the site as bulk tablets packaged in
screw cap containers labeled with container number and lot number. All study medications were
stored in cool and dry conditions as indicated on the label, and used only as directed by study
personnel. Study medication was dispensed by the unblinded site pharmacist or study personnel
according to the randomization scheme at the beginning of each treatment period.
[0241]      Administration
[0242]      Study medication was dispensed by an unblinded site pharmacist or study personnel
according a randomization scheme at Visits 2 and 4. At the end of Visits 2 and 4, subjects were
discharged from the clinic with assigned study medications and with instructions for self
administration until they returned for their next study visit (Visit 3 or 5).
[0243]      Study medication was administered orally as intact tablets (swallowed whole, not
chewed or crushed), and with water. The first dose and the last two doses of study medication for
each treatment period were administered to subjects by qualified study site personnel (first dose
at Visits 2 and 4 and last two doses at Visits 3 and 5). Subjects self-administered the assigned
study medications according to instructions until they returned for their next study visit (Visit 3
or 5). Study site personnel contacted subjects by telephone on the second day of dosing of each
treatment period to assess compliance and adverse events through non-directed questioning. If
the subject was experiencing significant gastrointestinal symptoms, at the investigator's
discretion, subjects were instructed not to dose escalate.
[0244]      The procedures performed during the study are listed in Tables 1-3 below.
                                                 - 63 -

                0
                                                              0
               H
        o              0                                      o
                                                             A-~     ~
                                                                      ~
        ~)
            ~
        o                                                    -~       ~0
  C]
  -~
    o  ~~             H                                               ~
                                                   --         ~      ~      *~
   ~   ~              -~                                              0~
    5  ~                                                      ~
   ~                   _                                      c~      ~
    ~
            H          ~                                     ~
   H                                               --         o       o
                                                                              0
                                                             -~       ~
          ~
               0         _
                          i~
                                                              ~
                                                              ~
                                                                      ~     *~
                                                                      ~       0
                                                              ?
  -~                                               ~~0                ~
    o  c4 ~~-~                                                ~
        0 ~                                                  -~          ~
   ~-
   _
       C]~o- ~                                     r~         ~
                                                              ~
    ~)           ~--~
                   -
                                                                   -~
                                                                      ~o  ~
  E~                                                                  ~       0
                                                              ~)      ~     -~
           ~                              r~r~
          ~                                                   ~
                                                   ---       c~       ~
                                                                      c~
                                                         ~          -~-~
                    0
                                                                      ~
                                                         ~-~o
                                                          5~
                                    -       0
0
o                   0        ~
                             ~-~c~-
                                      ~
                                ~         ~        -c.
                                ~       ~      ~
                                                ~   ~                 ~
                                                      ~)0
                                                                 0
                                               c/~ ~

Table 2: Schedule of Standardized Breakfast and Blood Sampling Profile at Visit 2
                                        and Visit 4
            Time (minutes) Collect 6-mL blood           Standardized
                                   samples [1]            Breakfast
                                                     Administration r2]
                  -15                   X
                   -5                   X
                    0                                         x
                   30                   X
                   45                   X
                   60                   X
                   90                   X
                  120                   X
                  150                   X
                  180                   X
                  210                   X
                  240                   X
                  270                   X
                  300                   X
                  330                   X
          [1] 6-mL blood volume total per sampling time point for
              assessment of PYY, GLP-1, plasma glucose, insulin,
              and triglycerides.
          [2] Subjects are to be instructed to consume the standardized
              breakfast within 20 minutes.
                                         - 65 -

     0Q
  0                           -       u
                                 zj     2
  E ~ ~~   ~
         t Cc ~)O ~
                  tr  ~ co ~
                     )m      ~      -
                                    unc
o                              0   O

[0245]      Pharmacodynamic assessments
[0246]      Blood samples were collected according to the schedules presented in Tables 1, 2,
and 3, and as described above. Fasting and postprandial plasma concentrations of gut hormones
GLP-1 and PYY, as well as concentrations of plasma glucose, insulin, and triglycerides were
measured by analytical methods. Blood samples from each visit was processed and stored at
70'C for future exploratory analysis of additional hormones.
[0247]      Pharmacokinetic assessments
[0248]      Blood samples were collected according to the schedules presented in Tables 1, 2,
and 3, and as described above. Plasma metformin concentrations were measured by analytical
methods. Blood samples from each visit were processed and stored at -70'C for future
exploratory analysis of additional hormones.
[0249]      Clinical Laboratory Evaluations
[0250]      Samples were collected according to the schedules presented in Tables 1, 2 and 3, and
in the preceding section.
[0251]      Chemistry
[0252]      Chemistry assessments included the following: urea nitrogen, creatinine, total protein,
albumin, uric acid, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate
aminotransferase, gamma glutamyltranspeptidase, creatine phosphokinase, glucose, sodium,
potassium, chloride, bicarbonate, phosphorus, lactate, and calcium (or other approved routine
chemistry panels.
[0253]      Hematology
[0254]      Hematology assessments included the following: red cell count, hemoglobin,
hematocrit, white cell count, platelets, differential count, mean cell volume, mean corpuscular
hemoglobin, and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (or other approved routine
hematology assessments).
[0255]      Urinalysis
                                                 -67-

[0256]      Urinalysis assessments included the following: pH, specific gravity, glucose, blood,
ketones, and protein (or other approved routine urinalysis).
[0257]      Pregnancy Testing
[0258]      All female subjects, regardless of childbearing status (unless subject was post
menopausal or had a hysterectomy), provided blood or urine for pregnancy tests. Study
medication was not administered unless a negative result was obtained.
[0259]      Vital Signs and Other Observations Related to Safety
[0260]      Clinically significant abnormalities in vital signs and other observations related to
safety were followed up by the investigator and evaluated with additional tests if necessary, until
the underlying cause was diagnosed or resolution occurred.
[0261]      Vital Signs
[0262]      Vital sign measurements included sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart
rate, and body temperature. Vital signs were measured after the subject rested for approximately
5 minutes and with the subject in a sitting position. The blood pressure measurement was
repeated after at least 30 seconds and the average of the two readings recorded.
[0263]      EXAMPLE 1.2: Results
[0264]      The study design and event timeline are shown in FIGs. 1-2. Shown in Tables 4 and
5 below are the resulting subject disposition and population (Table 4) and the demographic and
baseline characteristics of 18 subjects (Table 5).
Table 4: Subject Disposition and Population
       Parameter                                                     Result
       Randomized                                                    18
       Completed                                                     17
       Withdrawal (positive drug test)                               1
                                                - 68 -

       Evaluable Population                                           16
        2 subjects excludedfrom evaluable population; 1 withdrawn and 1 could not complete
         test meal at end of Treatment Period2
Table 5: Demographic and Baseline Characteristics (n=18)
       Parameter                                           Result
       Gender (M/F)                                        9/9
       Mean Age (yr)      SD                               44   10
       Race                                                9 Caucasian, 7 Hispanic, 2 black
       Mean BMI (kg/m2) ± SD                               29.3 + 2.8
[0265]        FIG. 3 demonstrates that ingestion of Metformin DR minimized adsorption of
metformin in the plasma compared to Metformin IR. The area under the curve (AUC) and Cmax
values for Metformin DR and Metformin IR are provided in Table 6 below.
Table 6: Metformin Plasma Pharmacokinetics
                                               LS Mean Ratio                      P Value
                                            ReMet /Metformin
       Abs AUC                                        0.83                          0.02
       Abs Cmax                                       0.73                         0.003
       Incremental Cmax                               0.45                        <0.001
[0266]       FIG. 4A-C shows an increase in meal-enhanced gut hormones in 16 subjects after
treatment of Metformin DR comparable to that of Metformin IR, although treatment with
Metformin DR minimized the systemic level of metformin compared to Metformin IR (FIG. 3).
                                                 - 69 -

Additionally, FIGs. 5A-B show a reduction in meal-enhanced glucose and insulin after treatment
with Metformin DR in 16 subjects comparable to that of Metformin IR. FIG. 6 shows that
treatment with Metformin DR results in a similar PYY response as Metformin IR, but has a
lower systemic exposure. FIGs. 7A-B show that the metformin PK/PD relationship was
dissociable in at least one patient.
[0267]      EXAMPLE 2 - A RANDOMIZED,CROSSOVER STUDY TO ASSESS STEADY
STATE PK AND PD OF DELA YED-RELEASE AND IMMEDIATE RELEASE METFORMIN IN
SUBJECTS WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS
[0268]      This randomized, crossover study assessed the steady-state pharmacokinetics and
pharmacodynamics (glucose, insulin, glucagon-like peptide-1 [GLP-1], and peptide YY [PYY],
of 500 mg and 1000 mg metformin delayed-release (Metformin DR), 1000 mg metformin
immediate-release (Metformin IR), and 500 mg Metformin IR + 1000 mg Metformin DR in
subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Subjects managing their diabetes with oral anti-diabetic
therapy must have been off of those medications for at least the fourteen days immediately prior
to randomization.
[02691      Each treatment period was five days long and separated by washout intervals of
seven days. Each treatment period contained a standardized breakfast and lunch profile on Day 1
prior to administration of study drug (baseline assessment) and an identical profile on the
morning of Day 5 (on-drug assessment).
[0270]      EXAMPLE 2.1: Materials and Methods
[0271]      Subjects were evaluated for the effects of each treatment on circulating PYY, GLP-1,
glucose, and insulin concentrations over approximately 10 hours in response to two standardized
meals (-500 kcal standardized breakfast at t=0 min, and -1000 kcal standardized lunch at t = 300
min) using standard protocols. Metformin pharmacokinetics over an approximately 11-hour
sampling period were also evaluated.
[0272]      Population: Most randomized subjects were White (79.2%), and half were female
(50.0%). The mean age was 51.3 years, the mean weight was 93.4 kg, and the mean BMI was
33.3 kg/m 2 at baseline. Nineteen of the 24 subjects completed the study.
                                               - 70 -

[0273]      The primary population for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analyses was the
Evaluable Population (N=19), defined as all subjects who completed all treatment periods
consistent with protocol procedures. The primary population for safety analyses was the Intent
to-Treat (ITT) Population (N=24), defined as all subjects who received at least one dose of study
medication.
[0274]      Formulations
[0275]      The metformin DR formulation was a US-supplied commercially available film
coated immediate-release tablet containing 500 mg metformin hydrochloride, to which additional
coatings (a seal coating and an enteric coating) were applied in order to delay release of the drug
in the GI tract until the tablet reaches a pH 6.5 region of the the distal small intestine. The
tablets are white, biconvex, circular-shaped coated tablets, each containing 500 mg metformin
hydrochloride. Inactive ingredients in the commercially available tablet included povidone,
magnesium stearate, hypromellose, and polyethylene glycol. Inactive ingredients in the
additional Elcelyx coating systems included hypromellose, triacetin, talc, methacrylic acid
copolymer (Eudragit@ L30 D-55), poly(methyl acrylate-co-methyl methacrylate-co-methacrylic
acid) 7:3:1 (Eudragit@ FS 30 D), sodium lauryl sulfate, polysorbate 80, glyceryl monostearate,
and triethyl citrate.
[0276]      The metformin IR formulation was the identical US-supplied commercially available
film-coated immediate-release tablet containing 500 mg metformin hydrochloride, to which only
the additional seal coating is applied. No delayed-release (enteric) coating was applied. Inactive
ingredients in the additional seal coating system included hypromellose, triacetin and talc.
[0277]      The metformin formulations were supplied to the site as bulk tablets packaged in
screw cap containers labeled with container number and lot number. All study medications were
stored in cool and dry conditions as indicated on the label, and used only as directed by study
personnel. Study medication was dispensed by the unblinded site pharmacist or study personnel
according to the randomization scheme at the beginning of each treatment period.
[0278]      Administration
[0279]      Study medication was administered orally as intact tablets (swallowed whole) with
water at the beginning of the breakfast and dinner meals. Subjects self-administered their
                                                 - 71 -

assigned study medications on the evening of Day 1 through the morning of Day 4 according to
instructions provided on Day 1 by the study site staff. The last two doses of study medication for
each treatment period (evening of Day 4 and morning of Day 5) were administered to subjects by
qualified study site personnel. In order to reduce gastrointestinal side effects, all treatment
regimens initiated treatment at 500 mg/dose for the first 3 doses, followed by an increase to the
randomized dose (500 mg/dose, 1000 mg, or 1500 mg/dose) for the remainder of the study
period. Study site personnel contacted subjects by telephone on the second day of dosing of each
treatment period to assess compliance and adverse events through non-directed questioning and
to remind them to dose-escalate if appropriate.
[0280]      EXAMPLE 2.2: Results
PharmacokineticEvaluations
[0281]      Pharmacokinetic Profiles
[0282]      Figure 8 presents the mean plasma metformin concentrations at Day 5 by treatment
and time point. On Day 5, the pre-dose mean concentration of Metformin IR at t=0 was 350
ng/mL, which is consistent with steady-state trough concentrations published in the literature.
After the administration of Metformin IR at t=- 1 minute, there was a rapid increase in metformin
concentrations that peaked at 1249 ng/mL 90 min after the dose followed by a steady decline for
the remainder of the sampling period.
[0283]      The pre-dose concentrations for both doses of Metformin DR were approximately 2
times higher than those for Metformin IR (716 ng/mL for 1000 mg DR and 602 ng/mL for 500
ng/mL DR vs. 350 ng/dL for 1000 mg IR). Following the administration of both doses of
metformin DR at t=- 1 minute, there was a decrease in metformin concentrations for the first 240
minutes followed by a small rise in metformin concentrations after the standardized lunch meal,
which then plateaued for the remainder of the sampling period. The entire 11-hour metformin
profiles remained below the pre-dose concentrations measured at t=0. The absorption profiles for
Metformin DR dosing with the evening meal were slowed relative to doses administered with the
breakfast meal, consistent with slowed intestinal transit during the sleeping hours. Metformin DR
concentrations for the 500-mg dose were lower than the 1000-mg dose at all time points although
the reductions were less than dose-proportional. This observation is consistent with the lack of
                                                - 72 -

dose-proportionality reported for Metformin IR and could be due to a saturable absorption
process in the gut.
[0284]      The Metformin DR + Metformin IR treatment group had the highest pre-dose
concentrations of the four treatment groups (761 ng/mL). Following the administration of study
medication at t=- 1 minute, metformin concentrations rapidly rose in a manner similar to
metformin IR but generally remained below the Metformin IR concentration curve for the first
500 minutes. For the remainder of the sampling period, concentrations plateaued but where
higher than those observed with the other treatments.
[0285]      Pharmacokinetic Parameters
[0286]      Table 7 and Figure 9 present the relative bioavailability of metformin by treatment
versus Metformin IR at Day 5. Compared to the Metformin IR formulation the metformin
exposure from t = 0 to time of last concentration after study medication administration (AUCo-)
was statistically significantly reduced by 45.2% with 1000 mg Metformin DR (% mean ratio of
54.8; p<0.0001) and 56.6% with 500 mg Metformin DR (% mean ratio of 43.4; p<0.0001).
Compared to Metformin IR, Cmax was also was statistically significantly reduced by 34.9% with
1000 mg Metformin DR (% mean ratio of 65.1; p<0.0001) and 47.7% with 500 mg metformin
DR (% mean ratio of 52.3; p<0.0001).
[0287]      The Metformin DR + IR treatment resulted in exposures similar to that of the 1000
mg Metformin IR (% mean ratio of 90.9; p=0.2271) despite an increase in daily dose of 50%.
Table 7.        Relative Bioavailability of Metformin by Treatment versus Metformin IR at Day 5
Evaluable Population
                                                   - 73 -

                                                                                              500 mg Met IR +
                             1000 mg Met IR        1000 mg Met DR         500 mg Met DR       1000 mg Met DR
   Statistic                     (N = 19)                 (N = 19)             (N = 19)            (N = 19)
   AUCO.t (ng*h/mL)
   Geometric LS mean               8325                     4559                 3614                 7567
   % ratio [1]
      Geometric LS mean             NA                      54.8                 43.4                 90.9
      90% CI                        NA                   48.1, 62.4           38.1, 49.5          79.8, 103.6
      p value                       NA                    <0.0001              <0.0001              0.2271
   Cmaxo.t (ng/mL)
   Geometric LS mean               1283                      836                 671                  1150
   % ratio [1]
      Geometric LS mean             NA                      65.1                 52.3                 89.6
      90% CI of % ratio             NA                   56.5, 75.0           45.4, 60.3          77.8, 103.3
      pvalueof %ratio               NA                    <0.0001              <0.0001              0.2016
   Abbreviations: NA = not applicable; t= last quantifiable concentration following dose administration.
   Note: Intra subject CV% was 24.2 for AUCo., and 26.3 for Cmax.
   [1] (1000 mg Met IR, 1000 mg Met DR, or 500 mg Met DR) / 1000 mg Met IR.
PharmacodynamicEvaluations
[0288]         PYY Total
[0289]         Figure 10 and Table 8 present the mean plasma PYY total concentration profiles at
baseline and Day 5 by treatment and time point and the corresponding analysis of
pharmacodynamic parameters, respectively. Baseline plasma PYY total concentrations were
similar between treatments at most time points. Additionally, all metformin treatments
statistically significantly increased PYY total exposure and peak concentrations (p<0.01 for all),
with percent ratios (Day5/Dayl) for AUCo-t and Cmax ranging from 1.26 to 1.55. Fasting
plasma PYY total concentrations were also statistically significantly increased from baseline at
Day 5 for each treatment (Table 9, p<0.01 for all). These results indicate that all of the
treatments studied elicited similar PYY total responses to two standardized meals.
Table 8.          Pharmacodynamic Analysis of Plasma PYY Total (pg/mL) - Within-Treatment Comparison
Based on Ratios - Evaluable Population
                                                        - 74   -

                                                                                             500 mg Met IR +
                                1000 mg Met IR    1000 mg Met DR         500 mg Met DR       1000 mg Met DR
   Statistic                        (N = 19)            (N = 19)              (N = 19)             (N = 19)
   AUCO., (pg/mL*min)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)           51487 (5104)      51518 (5579)           50932 (5587)        51985 (5614)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)          79654 (7897)      71218 (7712)           74546 (8178)        77270 (8344)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            1.55 (0.09)         1.38 (0.09)          1.46 (0.06)          1.49 (0.06)
      95% CI                        1.36, 1.75         1.22, 1.57            1.34, 1.59           1.36, 1.62
      p value                        <0.0001            <0.0001               <0.0001              <0.0001
   Cmaxo.t (pg/mL)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)              124(13)            135 (16)              122(13)              129(15)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)             190 (19)           169 (20)              169 (18)             184 (21)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            1.53 (0.10)         1.26 (0.09)          1.38 (0.08)          1.43 (0.06)
      95% CI                        1.34, 1.75         1.08, 1.47            1.23, 1.55           1.31, 1.56
      p value                        <0.0001             0.0056               <0.0001              <0.0001
   Abbreviations: BL = baseline (Day 1); EOT = end of treatment (Day 5); geo. = geometric; t= last quantifiable
   concentration following dose administration.
   [1] EOT (Day 5) /BL (Day 1)for each treatment
Table 9.          Fasting Plasma PYY Total (pg/mL) at Baseline and Day 5       -  Evaluable Population
                                                                                             500 mg Met IR +
                                1000 mg Met IR    1000 mg Met DR         500 mg Met DR       1000 mg Met DR
   Statistic                        (N = 19)            (N = 19)              (N = 19)             (N = 19)
   BL LS mean (SE)                59.47 (10.22)       56.26 (8.32)         53.39 (11.42)       59.11 (12.90)
   EOT LS mean (SE)               94.75 (10.22)      75.80 (8.32)          91.13 (11.42)       92.92 (12.90)
      LS mean diff (SE)           35.28 (6.64)        19.53 (6.17)         37.73 (10.41)        33.81 (9.91)
      95% CI                      21.28, 49.28        6.51, 32.56           15.77, 59.69        12.90, 54.71
      p value                        <.0001              0.0057                0.0021               0.0033
   Abbreviations: BL = baseline (Day 1); EOT = end of treatment (Day 5).
[0290]         GLP-1 Active
[0291]         Figure 11 and Table 10 present the mean plasma GLP-1 active concentration profiles
at baseline and Day 5 by treatment and time point and the corresponding analysis of
pharmacodynamic parameters, respectively. Baseline plasma GLP-1 active concentrations were
similar between treatments at most time points. Additionally, all metformin treatments
statistically significantly increased GLP-1 active exposure and peak concentrations (p<0.01 for
all), with percent ratios (Day5/Dayl) for AUCO-t and Cmax ranging from 1.42 to 1.88. Fasting
plasma GLP-1 total concentrations were also statistically significantly increased from baseline at
                                                    -  75  -

Day 5 for each treatment (Table 11, p<0.05 for all). These results indicate that all of the
treatments studied elicited similar GLP-1 active responses to two standardized meals.
Table 10          Pharmacodynamic Analysis of Plasma GLP-1 Active (pmoI/L) - Within-Treatment
Comparison Based on Ratios - Evaluable Population
                                                                                             500 mg Met IR +
                                1000 mg Met IR     1000 mg Met DR        500 mg Met DR       1000 mg Met DR
   Statistic                        (N = 19)            (N = 19)             (N = 19)              (N = 19)
   AUCo.t (pmol/L*min)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)            3031 (386)          3059 (405)           3547 (447)           3277 (380)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)           5655 (719)          4953 (655)           5993 (755)           6158 (714)
   %ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            1.87(0.18)          1.62(0.11)           1.69(0.15)           1.88(0.19)
      95% CI                       1.52, 2.29           1.40, 1.87          1.41, 2.03            1.52, 2.33
      p value                       <0.0001             <0.0001              <0.0001               <0.0001
   Cmaxo.t (pmoI/L)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)             11.3 (1.4)          10.6 (1.3)           13.9 (1.5)           12.0 (1.3)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)            19.2 (2.3)          17.3 (2.1)           19.7 (2.1)          21.1 (2.3)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            1.70 (0.16)         1.64 (0.17)          1.42 (0.14)          1.76 (0.19)
      95% CI                       1.40, 2.07           1.32, 2.03          1.15, 1.76            1.40, 2.21
      p value                       <0.0001              0.0001               0.0025               <0.0001
   Abbreviations: BL = baseline (Day 1); EOT = end of treatment (Day 5); geo. = geometric; t= last quantifiable
   concentration following dose administration.
   [1] EOT (Day 5) / BL (Day 1) for each treatment.
Table 11 Fasting Plasma GLP-1 Active (pmol/L) at Baseline and Day 5 - Evaluable Population
                                                                                             500 mg Met IR +
                                1000 mg Met IR     1000 mg Met DR        500 mg Met DR       1000 mg Met DR
   Statistic                        (N = 19)            (N = 19)             (N = 19)              (N = 19)
   BL LS mean (SE)                 3.79(1.16)          3.93(1.19)          4.73 (1.31)           3.69(1.04)
   EOT LS mean (SE)                6.32(1.16)          5.10(1.19)           6.62(1.31)           5.64(1.04)
      LS mean diff (SE)           2.53 (0.83)          1.17 (0.54)          1.89 (0.45)          1.95 (0.91)
      95% CI                       0.80, 4.26          0.03, 2.31           0.96, 2.83           0.03, 3.87
      p value                        0.0067              0.0444               0.0005                0.0466
   Abbreviations: BL = baseline (Day 1); EOT = end of treatment (Day 5).
[0292]         Glucose
[0293]         Figure 12 and Table 12 present mean plasma glucose concentration profiles at
baseline and Day 5 by treatment and timepoint and the corresponding pharmacodynamic
parameters by meal, respectively.
                                                     - 76   -

[0294]          Baseline plasma glucose concentrations were similar between treatments at most time
points. Additionally, all metformin treatments statistically significantly decreased glucose
exposure and peak concentrations for both meal intervals to a similar extent (p<0.001 for all).
Table12 Pharmacodynamic Analysis of Plasma Glucose (mg/dL) by Meal Interval - Within-Treatment
Comparison Based on Ratios - Evaluable Population
                                                                                              500 mg Met IR +
                                1000 mg Met IR     1000 mg Met DR       500 mg Met DR         1000 mg Met DR
   Statistic                        (N = 19)            (N = 19)             (N = 19)              (N = 19)
   Breakfast Interval
   AUC- 2 95 (mg/dL*min)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)           66642 (5480)       66257 (5815)         65755 (5906)          66507 (5617)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)          57007 (4688)       59269 (5201)         60346 (5420)          56658 (4785)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            0.86 (0.02)         0.90 (0.02)         0.92 (0.01)           0.85 (0.02)
      95% CI                       0.81, 0.91          0.86, 0.93           0.89, 0.95            0.81, 0.90
      p value                        <0.0001            <0.0001              <0.0001               <0.0001
   Cmaxo-t2 95 (mg/dL)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)             291 (21)            290 (22)             292 (24)              290 (20)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)            255 (19)            261 (20)             263 (21)              248 (17)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            0.88 (0.02)         0.90 (0.02)         0.90 (0.01)           0.85 (0.02)
      95% CI                       0.83, 0.92          0.86, 0.95           0.88, 0.93            0.81, 0.90
      p value                        <0.0001             0.0004              <0.0001               <0.0001
   Lunch Interval
   AUCt 2 95 -t (pg/mL*min)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)           76286 (6051)       75132 (6199)         74566 (6634)          74799 (5972)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)          65558 (5200)       66330 (5473)         68480 (6093)          63495 (5070)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            0.86 (0.02)         0.88 (0.02)         0.92 (0.02)           0.85 (0.03)
      95% CI                       0.82, 0.91          0.85, 0.92           0.88, 0.95            0.79, 0.91
      p value                        <0.0001            <0.0001               0.0002                0.0001
   Cmaxt 2 95 -t (pg/mL)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)             295 (22)            288 (21)             287 (23)              293 (22)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)            250 (19)            255 (19)             265 (22)              245 (19)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            0.85 (0.03)         0.89 (0.02)         0.93 (0.02)           0.84 (0.03)
      95% CI                       0.80, 0.90          0.85, 0.92           0.89, 0.96            0.78, 0.90
      p value                        <0.0001            <0.0001               0.0002               <0.0001
   Abbreviations: BL = baseline (Day 1); EOT = end of treatment (Day 5); t= last quantifiable concentration
   following dose administration.
   [1] EOT (Day 5) / BL (Day 1) for each treatment.
[0295]          Table 13 presents the pharmacodynamic parameters for glucose from t = 0 to time of
last concentration after study medication administration. Consistent with the pharmacodynamic
parameters for the breakfast and lunch intervals, all metformin treatments statistically
                                                     - 77  -

significantly decreased glucose exposure and peak concentrations (p<0.001 for all), with percent
ratios (Day5/Dayl) for AUCo-t and Cmax ranging from 0.84 to 0.92.
Table13 Pharmacodynamic Analysis of Plasma Glucose (mg/dL) and Insulin (pmol/L) - Within-Treatment
Comparison Based on Ratios - Evaluable Population
                                                                                              500 mg Met IR +
                                1000 mg Met IR     1000 mg Met DR       500 mg Met DR         1000 mg Met DR
   Statistic                         (N = 19)           (N = 19)             (N = 19)              (N = 19)
   Glucose
   AUCo.t (mg/dL*min)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)         143041 (11408)      141572 (11884)       140503 (12403)        141502 (11477)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)          122748 (9789)     125742 (10556)       129029 (11390)         120255 (9754)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            0.86 (0.02)         0.89 (0.01)         0.92 (0.01)           0.85 (0.02)
      95% CI                        0.82, 0.90         0.86, 0.92           0.89, 0.95            0.80, 0.90
      p value                        <0.0001            <0.0001              <0.0001               <0.0001
   Cmaxo.t (mg/dL)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)              301 (22)           301 (22)             301 (24)              304 (22)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)             265 (19)           269 (19)             277 (22)              256 (19)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            0.88 (0.03)         0.89 (0.02)         0.92 (0.01)           0.84 (0.02)
      95% CI                        0.83, 0.93         0.86, 0.93           0.90, 0.95            0.79, 0.90
      p value                         0.0002            <0.0001              <0.0001               <0.0001
   Insulin
   AUCo.t (pmol/L*min)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)         191826 (26987)      176384 (30776)       199339 (28758)        191204 (26683)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)        186379 (26145)      175190 (30567)       194650 (28049)        184975 (25814)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            0.97 (0.05)         0.99 (0.04)         0.98 (0.03)           0.97 (0.04)
      95% CI                        0.88, 1.08         0.92, 1.08           0.91, 1.04            0.89, 1.05
      p value                         0.5587             0.8622               0.4551                0.4070
   Cmaxo.t (pmol/L)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)              594 (88)           664 (112)            604 (96)              598 (92)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)             539 (80)           586 (99)             578 (92)              539 (83)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)            0.91 (0.06)         0.88 (0.09)         0.96 (0.06)           0.90 (0.06)
      95% CI                        0.79, 1.04         0.72, 1.08           0.85, 1.08            0.79, 1.03
      p value                         0.1462             0.2167               0.4649                0.1110
   Abbreviations: BL = baseline (Day 1); EOT = end of treatment (Day 5); t= last quantifiable concentration
   following dose administration.
   [1] EOT (Day 5) / BL (Day 1) for each treatment.
[0296]         Table 14 presents the LS mean (SE) and Figure 13 presents the individual change in
fasting plasma glucose concentrations from baseline to Day 5 by treatment. Baseline fasting
glucose concentrations were similar and ranged from 196 mg/dL to 200 mg/dL among the
treatment groups. All treatment groups achieved statistically significant reductions (p<0.01 for
                                                     - 78  -

all) in fasting plasma glucose after 5 days of treatment. As shown in Figure 13, the LSM and
distribution of individual responses were similar between treatment groups.
Table 14.          Fasting Plasma Glucose (mg/dL) at Baseline and Day 5 - Evaluable Population
                                                                                              500 mg Met IR +
                                1000 mg Met IR     1000 mg Met DR       500 mg Met DR         1000 mg Met DR
   Statistic                        (N = 19)             (N = 19)            (N = 19)              (N = 19)
   BL LS mean (SE)                200.3 (16.2)         197.0 (16.7)        198.7 (17.4)          195.9 (15.4)
   EOT LS mean (SE)               177.8 (16.2)         177.1 (16.7)        182.2 (17.4)          174.7 (15.4)
      LS mean diff (SE)            -22.5 (6.8)          -19.9 (5.0)         -16.4 (3.8)           -21.2 (4.7)
      95% CI                      -36.8, -8.16          -30.5, -9.3         -24.5, -8.4          -31.1, -11.2
      p value                        0.0040               0.0009              0.0004                0.0003
   Abbreviations: BL = baseline (Day 1); EOT = end of treatment (Day 5).
[0297]         Insulin
[0298]         Tables 15 and 16 present the pharmacodynamic parameters for insulin and baseline
and Day 5 fasting plasma insulin concentrations, respectively. There were no statistically
significant changes in insulin exposure, peak concentrations, or fasting concentrations for any of
the treatments (p>0.05 for all). Maintenance of insulin concentrations despite the lower
circulating glucose concentrations is indicative of an incretin effect.
Table 15           Pharmacodynamic Analysis of Insulin (pmol/L) - Within-Treatment Comparison Based on
Ratios - Evaluable Population
                                                                                              500 mg Met IR +
                                1000 mg Met IR     1000 mg Met DR       500 mg Met DR         1000 mg Met DR
   Statistic                        (N = 19)             (N = 19)            (N = 19)              (N = 19)
   AUCo., (pmol/L*min)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)         191826 (26987)      176384 (30776)       199339 (28758)        191204 (26683)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)        186379 (26145)      175190 (30567)       194650 (28049)        184975 (25814)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)           0.97 (0.05)          0.99 (0.04)         0.98 (0.03)           0.97 (0.04)
      95% CI                       0.88, 1.08           0.92, 1.08          0.91, 1.04            0.89, 1.05
      p value                        0.5587               0.8622              0.4551                0.4070
   Cmaxo., (pmol/L)
   BL geo. LS mean (SE)             594 (88)             664 (112)           604 (96)              598 (92)
   EOT geo. LS mean (SE)            539 (80)             586 (99)            578 (92)              539 (83)
   % ratio [1]
      Geo. LS mean (SE)           0.91 (0.06)          0.88 (0.09)         0.96 (0.06)           0.90 (0.06)
      95% CI                       0.79, 1.04           0.72, 1.08          0.85, 1.08            0.79, 1.03
      p value                        0.1462               0.2167              0.4649                0.1110
   Abbreviations: BL = baseline (Day 1); EOT = end of treatment (Day 5); t= last quantifiable concentration
   following dose administration.
   [1] EOT (Day 5) / BL (Day 1) for each treatment.
                                                     -  79  -

Table 16.        Fasting Insulin (pmol/L) at Baseline and Day 5 - Evaluable Population
                                                                                        500 mg Met IR +
                               1000 mg Met IR      1000 mg Met DR        500 mg Met DR  1000 mg Met DR
   Statistic                        (N = 19)             (N = 19)            (N = 19)        (N = 19)
   BL LS mean (SE)                183.8 (42.3)         187.7 (29.0)        166.7 (34.5)    169.8 (29.9)
   EOT LS mean (SE)               151.9 (42.3)         138.1 (29.0)        157.8 (34.5)    147.0 (29.9)
     LS mean diff (SE)            -31.8 (30.8)         -49.6 (18.1)         -8.8 (13.2)    -22.8 (8.6)
     95% CI                        -96.5, 32.8         -87.7, -11.6         -36.6, 18.9    -40.8, -4.8
     p value                         0.3146               0.0135              0.5109          0.0160
   Abbreviations: BL = baseline (Day 1); EOT = end of treatment (Day 5).
[0299]       Safety Evaluations
[0300]       Table 17 summarizes treatment-emergent adverse events by SOC, preferred term, and
most recent treatment at onset.
[0301]       Consistent with the metformin prescribing information, adverse events were primarily
gastrointestinal in nature with nausea, vomiting, and retching occurring only in the treatment
groups receiving Metformin IR with or without Metformin DR. Diarrhea was reported across all
treatment groups and appeared to be dose-dependent with the greatest incidence with Metformin
IR + Metformin DR (7 subjects, 33.3%) and the lowest incidence with the lowest dose of
Metformin DR (2 subjects, 10.0%). Of note, all gastrointestinal events in the 500 mg Metformin
DR group occurred during the post-treatment washout period while off study drug.
Nervous system disorders such as dizziness and headache were also more frequent with
Metformin IR than either DR dosage. Overall, fewer gastrointestinal and nervous system
disorder adverse events were reported with the Metformin DR than metformin IR, indicating that
the reduced systemic exposure to metformin achieved by bypassing the proximal small intestine
improved tolerability.
Table 17 Summary of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events by SOC and Preferred Term and Treatment at
Onset - ITT Population
                                                     -  80  -

                                                                    500 mg Met IR +
                        1000 mg Met IR 1000 mg Met DR 500 mg Met DR 1000 mg Met DR
SOC                         (N = 22)        (N = 20)      (N = 20)      (N = 21)
  Preferred Term              n (%)          n (%)         n (%)         n (%)
Any TEAE                    6 (27.3)        5 (25.0)      4 (20.0)      10 (47.6)
Gastrointestinal            5 (22.7)        3 (15.0)      2 (10.0)      8 (38.1)
Disorders
  Abdominal Discomfort        0 (0)           0 (0)         0 (0)        1 (4.8)
  Abdominal Distension        0 (0)           0 (0)         0 (0)        1 (4.8)
  Abdominal Pain              0 (0)           0 (0)        1 (5.0)       1 (4.8)
  Diarrhea                  3 (13.6)        3 (15.0)      2 (10.0)      7 (33.3)
  Dyspepsia                  1 (4.5)          0 (0)        1 (5.0)       1 (4.8)
  Frequent Bowel              0 (0)           0 (0)         0 (0)        1 (4.8)
  Movements
  Nausea                     2(9.1)           0(0)          0(0)        3(14.3)
  Retching                   1 (4.5)          0 (0)         0 (0)         0 (0)
  Vomiting                   2 (9.1)          0 (0)         0 (0)         0 (0)
General Disorders And         0 (0)           0 (0)        1 (5.0)        0 (0)
Administration Site
Conditions
  Fatigue                     0 (0)           0 (0)        1 (5.0)        0 (0)
Infections And                 0 (0)          0 (0)         0 (0)        1 (4.8)
Infestations
  Oral Herpes                 0  (0)          0 (0)         0 (0)        1 (4.8)
Investigations                0  (0)          0 (0)         0 (0)        1 (4.8)
  Weight Decreased            0  (0)          0 (0)         0 (0)        1 (4.8)
Musculoskeletal And           0  (0)         1 (5.0)        0 (0)         0 (0)
Connective Tissue
Disorders
  Pain In Extremity           0 (0)          1 (5.0)        0 (0)         0 (0)
Neoplasms Benign,             0 (0)          1 (5.0)        0 (0)         0 (0)
Malignant And
Unspecified (Incl Cysts
And Polyps)
  Gastrointestinal            0 (0)          1 (5.0)        0 (0)         0 (0)
  Stromal Tumour
Nervous System              5 (22.7)         1 (5.0)       1 (5.0)        0 (0)
Disorders
  Dizziness                 3 (13.6)          0 (0)         0 (0)         0 (0)
  Headache                   2 (9.1)         1(5.0)        1(5.0)         0(0)
  Sinus Headache             1 (4.5)          0 (0)         0 (0)         0 (0)
Renal And Urinary             0 (0)           0 (0)         0 (0)        1 (4.8)
Disorders
  Pollakiuria                 0 (0)           0 (0)         0 (0)        1 (4.8)
Skin And                      0 (0)           0 (0)         0 (0)        1 (4.8)
Subcutaneous Tissue
Disorders
  Hyperhidrosis               0 (0)           0 (0)         0 (0)        1 (4.8)
                                          - 81   -

[0302]      EXAMPLE 2.3: Discussion
[0303]      In this study, metformin concentrations in plasma were measured over 11 hours at
steady-state on the 5th day (Figure 1) of BID dosing (pre-breakfast and pre-supper) with 1000
mg immediate-release metformin (Metformin IR), 500 mg Metformin DR and 1000 mg
Metformin DR, or a combination of 500 mg Metformin IR and 1000 mg Metformin DR. All
subjects had type 2 diabetes and received each treatment in a randomized crossover design with a
one week washout between treatments.
[0304]      The observed profiles indicated lower circulating amounts of metformin when using
the Metformin DR compared to Metformin IR. The Day 5 pre-dose concentration of metformin
with Metformin IR on the morning of Day 5 was 350 ng/mL, which is consistent with steady
state trough concentrations published in the literature. After the administration of Metformin IR
on the morning of Day 5, there was a rapid increase in metformin concentration that peaked 90
min after the dose followed by a steady decline for the remainder of the sampling period.
[0305]      With Metformin DR dosing, the highest concentration of metformin was observed
prior to the dose on the morning of Day 5, which was approximately 2 times higher at that time
point than those for Metformin IR. Following administration of either dose of Metformin DR,
there was a decrease in metformin concentration for the first 240 minutes followed by a small
rise in metformin concentration at 360 minutes, which plateaued for the remainder of the
sampling period. The entire 11-hour Metformin DR PK profiles remained below the pre-dose
concentrations measured at t=0. These results indicate that the absorption profiles for Metformin
DR dosing with the evening meal were slowed relative to doses administered with the breakfast
meal, consistent with slowed intestinal transit during the sleeping hours. Thus, concentrations
throughout the first 240 minutes of the Day 5 profile were predominantly a result of absorption
from the Day 4 evening dose and concentrations from 240 minutes through 660 mins were
predominantly a result of absorption from the Day 5 morning dose.
[0306]      EXAMPLE 3: ANALYSIS OF PHARMACOKINETIC DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
MORNING AND EVENING DOSING
[0307]      To better characterize the pharmacokinetic differences between morning and evening
doses, the study of Example 3 was designed to obtain 36-hour PK profiles of Metformin DR at
doses of 500 and 1000 mg given at the evening and breakfast meals in healthy subjects. Subjects
                                                - 82 -

also received 1000 mg Metformin IR with the evening and breakfast meals and 2000 mg
metformin extended-release (Metformin XR) with the evening meal during separate treatment
periods. All subjects received each treatment in a randomized crossover design with a one week
washout between treatments.
[0308]       The metformin DR formulation was a US-supplied commercially available film
coated immediate-release tablet containing 500 mg metformin hydrochloride, to which additional
coatings (a seal coating and an enteric coating) were applied in order to delay release of the drug
in the GI tract until the tablet reaches a pH 6.5 region of the distal small intestine. The tablets are
white, biconvex, circular-shaped coated tablets, each containing 500 mg metformin
hydrochloride. Inactive ingredients in the commercially available tablet included povidone,
magnesium stearate, hypromellose, and polyethylene glycol. Inactive ingredients in the
additional coating systems included hypromellose, triacetin, talc, methacrylic acid copolymer
(Eudragit@ L30 D-55), poly(methyl acrylate-co-methyl methacrylate-co-methacrylic acid) 7:3:1
(Eudragit@ FS 30 D), sodium lauryl sulfate, polysorbate 80, glyceryl monostearate, and triethyl
citrate. The metformin IR and metformin XR formulations were commercially available
formulations (Aurobindo Pharma Limited and Bristol-Myers Squibb respectively) without any
modification.
[0309]       As shown in Figure 14, both doses of Metformin DR resulted in substantially less
systemic metformin than was observed with either Metformin IR or Metformin XR. Of note, the
total plasma metformin exposure as measured by AUC of 1000 mg Metformin IR BID and 2000
mg Metformin XR QD (total daily doses of 2000 mg) were very similar, consistent with the
previously established bioequivalence between the two formulations. The Metformin DR profile
over the first 12 hours showed that there is a delay in systemic absorption of Metformin DR, with
the first quantifiable plasma concentration occurring approximately 6-7 hours after the dose. The
highest concentration was achieved approximately 11 hours after the evening dose. After a
second dose with Metformin DR in the morning, the plasma concentration of metformin
decreased until approximately 15 h post first dose, followed by a small rise corresponding to
approximately 3 hours after the second dose.
                                                 - 83 -

 [0310]         As noted above, the data indicate that Metformin IR and both doses of Metformin DR
have slightly greater bioavailability after an evening dose than the morning dose, perhaps as a
result of slower intestinal transit during the sleeping hours.
 [0311]         Table 18 shows the Mean (CV%) plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of metformin
 following oral administration of each treatment and Figure 15 compares the mean (SEM) values
 of Cmax (left panel) and AUCo-36       hr (right panel). Both doses of Metformin DR resulted in
 substantial reductions in exposure as well as a delay in absorption of 6-7 hours.
Table 18 Mean (CV%) Plasma Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Metformin Following Oral Administration
 of Treatment A, B, C, and D - Evaluable Population
                          1000 mg Met IR            500 mg Met DR      1000 mg Met DR       2000 mg Met XR
  PK Parameters          BID (Treatment A)                  BID                BID                 QD
                                                     (Treatment B)      (Treatment C)        (Treatment D)
  N                                19                         19                19                  19
  AUCh 24                    17361 (24.3)              5541 (31.9)         7634 (31.9)         16406 (24.5)
  (ng*h/mL)_________                            _______________                                           ___
  AUC       L                18709 (24.3)              6164 (32.9)         9014 (29.5)
  (ng*h/mL)_________                            _______________
                                                                                               16989 (24.8)
                                                                                                          ___
  AUC       L                19423 (23.6)              6690 (3 0 .4 )b    10277 ( 2 5 .6 )b    17398 (24.7)
  (ng*h/mL)
   ng/mL)                    1328 (20.6)                607 (24.0)         905 (26.8)          1688 (25.0)
  tmx a15.0                     (4.00, 16.0)        11.0 (6.02, 19.0)   11.0 (7.00, 19.0)   7.05 (6.00, 11.0)
  (li)                    0.00 (0.00, 0.500)        6.02 (1.50, 10.0)   7.00 (3.00, 8.00)   0.00 (0.00, 2.00)
  t1/2                        8.26 (31.0)              6.19 (49.4)b        11.2 (39.9)b        6.09 (45.5)
median (min, max)
bn-18
'n=17
 [0312]         Geometric LSM ratios and 90% confidence intervals for the ln-transformed Cmax,
AUCo-t, and AUCo_, from the Metformin DR treatments (500 mg BID [Treatment B] and 1000
mg BID [Treatment C]) relative to the Metformin IR (1000 mg BID [Treatment A]) are shown in
Table 19 and the relative bioavailability is plotted in the left panel of Figure 16. These results
 indicate that the rate and extent of exposure (Cmax, AUCo-t and AUCo_.) from 500 mg BID
Metformin DR were approximately 55%, 68% and 67% lower, respectively, than those from
 1000 mg BID Metformin IR. At 1000 mg BID Metformin DR (Treatment C, total daily dose of
2000 mg metformin) the rate and extent of exposure (Cmax, AUCo-t and AUCo_,) were
 approximately 33%, 52% and 47% lower, respectively, than those from 1000 mg BID Metformin
IR (Treatment A, total daily dose of 2000 mg metformin). Similar reductions in the rate and
                                                          -  84  -

extent of exposure were observed when 500 mg BID and 1000 mg BID of Metformin DR were
compared to 2000 mg QD of Metformin XR (Table 20; Figure 16, right panel).
Table 19 Relative Bioavailability of Metformin Following Oral Administration of 500 mg BID and 1000
mg BID Metformin DR Treatment compared to 1000 mg BID Metformin IR- Evaluable Population
PK                       Geometric Least-Square                  % Ratio of LSmeans                          p-value
                                   Means                              (90% CI)
Parameter                  A           B          C          B/A                     C/A                 B/A        C/A
AUC,-                     816        516        81           32.1                    47.5
(ng*h/mL)                18116       5816       8611    (29.30-35.18)           (43.38-52.09)             SSSS       SS
                  AU,     991        644        15633.3                              53.0
(ng*h/mL)                19981       6644       10586   (30.37-36.40)           (48.36-58.05)             SSS        SSS
Cx                        1294       586         865         45.3                    66.8                 SS         SS
(ng/mL)                   1294       586         865    (40.88-50.13)           (60.34-74.00)         _____
SS: Statistically significant (p-value <0.0001)
Treatment A: 1000 mg Metformin IR BID (2 x 500 mg metformin HCl tablets [immediate-release])
Treatment B: 500 mg Metformin DR BID (1 x 500 mg metformin HCl tablet [delayed-release pH 6.5 enteric-coated])
Treatment C: 1000 mg Metformin DR BID (2 x 500 mg metformin HCl tablets [delayed-release pH 6.5 enteric-coated])
Table 20 Relative Bioavailability of Metformin Following Oral Administration of 500 mg BID and
1000 mg BID Metformin DR Treatment compared to 2000 mg QD Metformin XR - Evaluable
Population
PK                       Geometric Least-Square                  % Ratio of LSmeans                          p-value
                                   Means                              (90% CI)
Parameter                  B           C          D          B/D                     C/D                 B/D        C/D
AUC,-t                   5816        8611       16450        35.4                    52.3                   SS
(ng*h/mL)                                               (32.27-38.74)           (47.77-57.36)             SS         SS
     AC_6644                        10586       17873        37.2                    59.2                   SS
(ng*h/mL)                                               (33.93-40.73)           (54.10-64.84)             SS         SS
Cmax                      586        865         1631        35.9                    53.0                   SS
(ng/mL)                   586        865          631   (32.43-39.77)           (47.88-58.71)             SS         SS
SS: Statistically significant (p-value <0.0001)
Treatment B: 500 mg Metformin DR BID (1 x 500 mg metformin HCl tablet [delayed-release pH 6.5 enteric-coated])
Treatment C: 1000 mg Metformin DR BID (2 x 500 mg metformin HCl tablets [delayed-release pH 6.5 enteric-coated])
Treatment D: 2000 mg Metformin XR QD (4 x 500 mg metformin HCl tablets [extended-release])
[0313]          Taken together, the pharmacokinetic results of Examples 2 and 3 indicate that
delivery of metformin to the lower bowel by administering Metformin DR reduces 24 hour
bioavailability by approximately 50% relative to Metformin IR and Metformin XR at the same
daily dose. Greater reductions in exposure were observed when the Metformin DR dose was
reduced from a total daily dose of 2000 mg to 1000 mg, without a reduction in efficacy. In
addition, the time of Metformin DR dosing (with the morning or evening meals) meaningfully
affected the timing of metformin release in the intestine (3 vs. 6- 7 hours post-dose, respectively)
and provides an explanation for the observation from the study in Example 2 that, the Metformin
                                                         - 85  -

DR trough values observed prior to the morning dose were higher than the trough values
observed 12 hours after the morning dose.
[0314]      In the Example 2 study, while the systemic exposure to metformin was substantially
reduced with Metformin DR (45% with 2000 mg/day and ~60 % with 1000 mg/day, relative to
2000 mg/day of Metformin IR), the full glucose lowering effects of Metformin IR (2000 mg/day)
were maintained. Given that the full glucose lowering effect was observed at both 2000 mg and
 1000 mg daily of Metformin DR, lower doses are viable, allowing for more elegant dosage forms
than are currently available with existing products (Metformin IR and Metformin XR (i.e.,
smaller tablets, fully effective fixed dose combinations, once daily dosing). Moreover, unlike
Metformin IR, Metformin DR was not associated with any nausea and vomiting at either dose.
[0315]      All patents and patent publications referred to herein are hereby incorporated by
reference.
[0316]      Certain modifications and improvements will occur to those skilled in the art upon a
reading of the foregoing description. It should be understood that all such modifications and
improvements have been deleted herein for the sake of conciseness and readability but are
properly within the scope of the following claims.
                                                - 86 -

What is claimed is:
 1.     A method of improving the gastrointestinal tolerability of and/or reducing gastrointestinal
complications resulting from biguanide administration, comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide compound in a delayed-release formulation to a
patient in need thereof.
2.      A method of treating metabolic disorders in a patient in need thereof, comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide compound to said patient in a
delayed-release formulation, wherein said patient has a contraindication for the biguanide
compound.
3.      The method according to claim 2, wherein the patient has a contraindication selected
from the group consisting of a hypoxic condition, impaired lactate clearance, and impaired
clearance of the biguanide compound.
4.      The method according to claim 3, wherein the patient has a hypoxic condition.
5.      The method according to claim 3, wherein the patient has impaired lactate clearance.
6.      The method according to claim 3, wherein the patient has impaired clearance of the
biguanide compound.
7.      The method according to claim 3, wherein the patient has moderate renal impairment,
severe renal impairment, or endstage renal disease which results in impaired clearance of the
biguanide compound.
8.      The method according to claim 3, wherein the patient has chronic kidney disease.
9.      The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the patient in need
thereof has hyperglycemia.
 10.    The method according to claim 9, wherein the hyperglycemia is chronic.
 11.    The method according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the hyperglycemia is caused by
type II diabetes.
 12.    A method of treating a renally impaired subject having diabetes, comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide compound to said subject in a
delayed-release formulation.
                                              - 87 -

 13.    A method of treating a diabetic subject having congestive heart failure, a hypoxic state
and/or advanced liver disease, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a
biguanide compound to said subject in a delayed-release formulation.
 14.    A method of reducing the onset of diabetes in a subject with pre-diabetes, comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of a biguanide compound to said subject in a
delayed-release formulation.
 15.    A method of inducing weight loss in a subject, comprising administering a
therapeutically effetive amount of a biguanide compound to said subject in a delayed release
formulation.
 16.    The method acording to any one of claims 1-15, wherein the biguanide compound has a
reduced relative bioavailability of about 40, 50 or 60% in said delayed-release formulation in
comparison with an immedicate-release formulation havig the same amount of said biguanide
compound.
 17.    The method according to any one of claims 1-15, wherein the administration produces a
mean plasma AUCO- 36 less than about 14,000, 13,000 or 12,000 ng*h/mL when said formulation
is administered at 500 mg twice daily.
 18.    The method according to any one of claims 1-15, wherein the administration produces a
mean Cmax less than about 800, 700 or 600 ng/mL when said formulation is administered at 500
mg twice daily.
 19.    The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the biguanide
compound is targeted for delivery to the small intestine, and the formulation comprises an oral
dosage form enterically coated at a pH at or above 5.0 or 5.5.
20.     The method according to claim 19, wherein the biguanide compound is targeted for
delivery to the distal small intestine, and the formulation comprises an oral dosage form
enterically coated at a pH at or above 6.0 or 6.5.
21.     The method according to claim 19 or 20, wherein said oral dosage form further comprises
a modified release component for at least a portion of said biguanide compound.
22.     The method according to claim 19 or 20, wherein the oral dosage form comprises less
than 500 mg of the biguanide compound.
                                                 - 88 -

23.     The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said biguanide
compound is selected from the group consisting of metformin, phenformin, buformin and
imeglimin.
24.     A method according to any one of the previous claims, further comprising administration
of a DPP-IV inhibitor.
25.     A method according to any one of the previous claims, further comprising administration
of an anti-obesity or anti-diabetes agent.
                               Elcelyx Therapeutics, Inc.
          Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                             - 89 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
