ABSTRACT
A payee (300A) sends a financial document (335) such as an invoice to a payer (1A) via a payment
adviser service (2001, 3001). The payer (1A) sends a financial document (45) such as an advice of
payment to the payment adviser service (2001, 3001) and instructions for payment (80) to a
payment clearance system (100). The payment clearance system sends to the payee (300A)
information on where to access the financial document (45) by including it in the payee's bank
statements (315).

   Title
   Process of and apparatus for notification of financial documents and the like.
   Field of the Invention
  The present invention relates to the communication of financial documents between the parties
  to financial transactions.
  Background of the Invention
  Figure 1 is a block diagram of a known approach 1000 to issuing financial documents with
  payments. According to this known approach, an electronic payment 80 and a financial
  document 45 (such as an advice of payment) are sent between a payer and payee. The financial
  document 45 will often be created at process 40 by the payer to provide details of the payment.
 This financial document is often sent such as by postal mail or by email 50 to the payee.
 When the financial document has been created, the payer creates a payment instruction using an
 in-house application 60 or banking application 70. This payment instruction is sent to the payer
 financial institution 90 as an electronic payment file 80, and if the payer has sufficient funds, a
 payment is sent by 90 to the payee financial institution 300 and deposited in the payee's bank
 account.
The payee can view the payment on their bank statement using their banking application 310 or
 by viewing paper statements issued by the payee's financial institution.
When the financial document 45 is received by the payee, the payee opens the financial
document and will try to match the details (eg date, payment amount, payer name) with details
on the bank statement 315.
A major limitation with this common approach is the financial document 45 and the electronic
payment 80 can arrive at the payee at different times, and the payee has the difficult task of
matching 320 the financial document to the payment on their bank statement. Matching can be
difficult because the payment details on bank statements are often limited to a few fields such
as: payment amount, payment description/ reference, remitter name, payment date, debit and
credit indicator.

Summary of the Invention
 In contrast, according to one aspect, the present invention provides, in a system which
includes:
          a payer;
          a payee; and
          a payments clearance system which includes a payer's financial institution and a payee's
          financial institution,
a process comprising:
          providing a payments adviser system; and
         the payer sending
                   to the payee via the payments clearance system:
                            a payment; and
                            an identifier that signifies to the payee the location to access a financial
                            document; and
                  the financial document to the location that Is signified by the identifier.
According to another aspect, the present invention provides, in a system which includes:
         a payer;
         a payee; and
         a payments clearance system which includes a payer's financial institution and a payee's
         financial institution,
a process comprising:
         providing a payments adviser system; and
         the payee sending
                  to the payer's financial institution through the payments clearance system:
                            a request for a payment: and
                            an identifier that signifies to the payer the location to access a financial
                            document; and
                  the financial document to the location that is signified by the identifier.
According to another aspect, the present invention provides a process of a payee:
        sending to a payer's financial institution through a payments clearance system:
                  a request for a payment; and
                  an identifier that signifies to the payer the location to access a financial
                  document; and
         sending that financial document to the location that is signified by the identifier.

 Other aspects of the invention are summarized in the claims that appear at the end of this
 specification
 Brief description of the drawings
 In order that the present invention may be more readily understood, preferred embodiments of
 it are described with reference to the drawings in which:
          figure 1 is a block diagram of a known approach to issuing financial documents with
          payments;
          figures 2, 3 and 10 are block diagrams illustrating various preferred embodiments of the
          present invention;
          figures 4 to 6, 8, and 11 illustrate screen designs used according to preferred
          embodiments of the present invention; and
          figure 7 illustrates a document which can be created according to preferred
          embodiments of the present invention.
Description of preferred embodiments of the invention
Figure 2 illustrates a system 2000 according to one preferred embodiment of the present
invention.
The system 2000 includes a payment adviser internet service 2001. The payment adviser internet
service 2001 includes a payer registration process 2002, a payer document and upload process
2003 and a payee document access process 2004.
The payer registration process 2002 has a registration sub-system 200 and utilizes a member
register 205.
The payer document upload process includes a logon authentication function 210, a document
upload sub-system 215, and utilizes a payment account register 220 and a document data
warehouse 225.
The payee document access process has a document access sub-system 235, payment account
authentication function 230, and a document display and download function 240.
As will now be described, the embodiment of the invention illustrated in figure 2 is used, among
other things, to allow a payee to access financial documents that have been generated by, or on
behalf of the payer.

  According to this embodiment, the payer first registers as a member of the payment adviser
  internet service 2001 using the registration sub-system 200. The payer member details and
  authentication details (eg. login and password) are stored in the member register 205.
  When the payer 1A wants to send a payment with a financial document 45 to a payee 300A, the
  payer 1A first creates the financial document 45 using an application 40. Preferred forms of
  application 40 include commercial accounting packages and word processing applications. The
  payer 1A then uploads the financial document 45 using the document upload sub-system 215.
  Examples of the financial document 45 include a document image, a document produced by a
 word processor program, or a electronic document file containing tagged data values.
 The document upload sub-system 215 offers a variety of ways to upload a file. A preferred
 mechanism is for the payer to login onto the payment adviser internet service 2001 using the
 login authentication function 210, and to use a document upload screen which allows the Payer
 to attach the financial document for upload into the payment adviser internet service. A
 preferred embodiment of a document upload screen is illustrated in figure 4. For each financial
 document 45, the payer is required to specify the following:
      *   payment account details of the payee
      *   security authentication Information
     *    document reference code.
The payment account details are used to uniquely identify the payee's financial institution
account which will receive payment from the payer. The details which are needed to uniquely
identify a payee's account can vary between national payments clearance systems. For example
in Australia, a payment bank account is uniquely identified by a BSB and an account number.
The payer 1A can specify the type of security authentication which needs to be satisfied before
the payee can access a document. It is preferred that the security authentication is a
combination of the following:
           -   payment account details (mandatory),
              document reference code (mandatory),

-                 payment date,
-                 payment amount, and
                  shared secret between the payer and payee.
    A document reference code is a short reference which is used to access the financial document,
    and is placed as a field in an electronic payment file 80 so that it appears on the payee's bank
    statement. Preferred fields for placement of the document reference code are the lodgment
    reference field or the remitter name field.
   A preferred form of the document reference code 80 is a short Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
   which describes the mechanism to access the resource (ie. financial document), the computer on
   which the resource is housed (ie. payment adviser internet service), and the specific name of the
   resource. For this example implementation, the short URI would have the format:
                      www.p.aa/123456789
   the first part is a web address which identifies the location of the payment adviser internet
   service: for example: www.p.aa. The second part is a document id which is less than or equal to
   10 characters in length: for example: 123456789. This identifies the name of the financial
   document.
   When the financial document 45 is successfully uploaded into the payment adviser internet
  service 2001 by the document upload sub-system 215, the sub-system 215 will load the content
  of the document, security authorization details and document reference details into the
  document data warehouse 225. The payee's payment account details are also loaded into the
  payment account register 220, and these account details are linked to the 45 details in the
  document data warehouse.
  After the financial document 45 has been uploaded into the payment adviser internet service
  2001, the payer then creates a direct credit payment instruction for the financial document 45
  using an application 60 such as an accounting package or using the payer's banking application
  70. When creating the payment instruction, the payer is required to enter the document
  reference code in a payment field of the payment. Examples of the payment reference field
  include the lodgment reference field or remitter name field. The field selected needs to be a field
  which will show on the payee's bank statement.

   The electronic payment file 80, containing the payment instruction, is electronically issued to the
    payer's financial institution 90 for processing. The electronic payment file 80 can be issued to the
   financial institution 90 using either the application 60 or the payer's banking application 70. The
   payer financial institution 90 will process the electronic payment file 80 and if there are sufficient
   funds in the payer's 1A account the institution 90 will send the payment to the payee's financial
   institution 300.
   For the payee 300A to access the financial document 45 which the payer has uploaded into the
   payment adviser internet service 2001, the payee 300A needs to access their bank statement
  315. A payee could use a desktop bank application 310 to view and download their bank
  statement. Alternately the payee could request their financial institution 300 for paper copies of
  the bank statement 315.
  On viewing their bank statement 315, the payee 300A extracts the, document reference code (eg.
  implemented as a short URI document reference, such as www.p.aa/123456789) in the payment
  reference field for the deposit payment issued by the payer.
  Preferred embodiments of this invention also allow for the document reference code to appear
 on the bank statement associated with the payer's bank account. The payer's financial institution
 90 will place the document reference code in a payment reference field associated with the
 withdrawal details of the payment made to the payee. An example payment reference field is
 the lodgment reference field. This will enable the payer to access the financial document 45
 from the payer's bank statement using the document reference code.
 The payee 300A opens an internet session 340, and enters (or copies) in the internet browser the
 document reference code which is specified in the payment reference field of the bank
 statement 315.
When the payment adviser Internet service 2001 receives a request for the document reference
(eg. URI) with the document id (eg. 123456789), that service 2001 will execute the document
access sub-system 235, and will display the document access screen. Figure 5 illustrates a
preferred embodiment of the document access screen.
The user 300A is permitted to enter for the document reference the full document reference (eg.
the URI www.p.aa/123456789) or the document id (e.g. 123456789).

  When the "ok" button of the document access screen of figure 5 is selected, the document
  access sub-system 235 will attempt to validate that the document reference exists by checking
 that the document reference code exists in the document data warehouse 225.
  If the document reference is valid, the document access sub-system 235 will display to the payee
 a document security Internet screen. A preferred embodiment of the document security internet
 screen is shown in figure 6. This screen will prompt the payee to enter their payment account
 details, and if requested by the payer, will be required to enter other details such as a shared
 secret, payment amount or payment date.
 When the payee presses the ok button on the document security internet screen, the document
 access sub-system 235 will pass the entered security details to the payment account
 authentication function 230. The payment account authentication function 230 will query the
 payment account register 220 to verify that there are financial documents associated with the
 payment account and other security details entered (eg. shared secret). The payment account
 register 220 will search for the payment account details, and will query the document data
warehouse 225 to see if there are any financial documents associated with the payment account
which have the same document reference as entered on the document access screen. If a
financial document does exist, the payment account register 220 will verify that the other
security details match the security details associated with the financial document.
The results of the search are passed from the payment account register 220 back to the
document access sub-system 235.
If there are no documents which match the search, then an error message is displayed to the
payee on the document security screen.
If the payment account register 220 -determines that there are one or multiple documents
associated with the document reference and security details, then the document access
sub-system 235 will call the document display and download function 240 to retrieve the
documents. These documents will be passed on the document access sub-system 235.
If there are multiple documents, the document access sub-system 235 will list the multiple
documents and display the list to the payee in the document display screen. The payee will be
able to select and view any of the documents which are listed.

  If there is a single document associated with the document reference and authenticated user the
  document access sub-system 235 will display the document to the payee in the document display
  screen.
 The embodiment of the invention described above is of an embodiment in which the payment
  instruction isa direct credit payment instruction to deposit money into a payee's bank account.
 This embodiment also allows for the payment instruction to be a direct debit payment
 instruction, whereby the instruction is to withdraw money. The Payer 1A shown in Figure 2 is not
 a payer if they issue a direct debit payment instruction to the other party 300A. The party 1A will
 follow the same process described above for sending a financial document 45 and payment
 instruction 80 to the party 300A, and the party 300A will follow the same process outlined above
 for access the financial document. The key difference with issuing a direct debit payment
 instruction, compared with a direct credit payment instruction, is that the financial institution 90
 will issue a payment request to financial institution 300 to withdraw money from payee 300A
 bank account.
As will be seen from the description above, embodiments of the present invention allow a payee
to easily access that financial document 45 sent by a payer. The financial document 45 is
electronically submitted to the payment adviser internet system 2001, and the payee can access
this document by using a short document reference code which the payer has provided as part of
the electronic payment file 80 and which subsequently appears on the payee's bank statement.
Compared with the common approach in Figure 1, the embodiments of the present invention
remove the need by the payer to post a financial document 50, and for the payee to have to
search and match 320 the financial document with a payment on the bank statement.
Figure 3 illustrates further embodiments 3001 of the payment adviser Internet service which
allow the integration of documents sent between a payee and payer with the payment that is
issued by a payer to a payee.
When the payee 300A needs to send a document 335. (eg. an invoice) to a payer 1A, the payee
first creates the document 335 using an application 325 - such as a commercial accounting
package or a word processing application. The payee 300A then uploads the document 335 using
the document upload sub-system 215. The financial document 335

  uploaded could be a document image, or could be an electronic document file containing tagged
  data values.
  The document upload sub-system 215 offers a variety of ways to upload a financial document
  335. One approach is for the payee to login to the payment adviser internet service 3001 using
 the login authentication function 210, and to use the document upload internet screen which
 allows the payee to attach the document 335 for upload into the payment adviser Internet
 service 3001. To login, the payee is required to register as a member of the payment adviser
 Internet service 3001. The registration process follows the same process as the payer
 registration process shown in figure 2.
 Figure 4 illustrates a preferred embodiment of the document upload screen. For the financial
 document 335, the payee 300A is required to specify the following:
 *        security authentication information,
 *        document reference, and
 *        default payee payment account (optional).
 The payee 300A can specify the type of security authentication which needs to be satisfied
 before the payer 1A can access the payee document 335. It is preferred that security
 authentication is a combination of the following:
 *       email address of payer 1A;
         something that is known to both the payer 1A and the payee 300A, examples of which
         can include:
              o    the payer's mobile telephone number,
              o    the payer's car registration number, or
              o    the payer's account number - issued prior by the payee.
The document reference code is a short reference which uniquely identifies the payee document
from other documents which the payee 300A has previously uploaded to the payment adviser
Internet service 3001. This document reference code is used to link the documents sent between
the payee 300A and the payer 1A and the payment which the payer 1A sends to the payee 300A.
An example implementation of the document reference code is a short Uniform Resource
Identifier (URI) which describes the mechanism to access the resource (i.e. Financial document),
the computer that the resource is housed (i.e. payment adviser internet

  service), and the specific name of the resource. The format of this short URI was described
  previously above.
  When the document 335 is successfully uploaded into the payment adviser internet service 3001
  by the documenlupload sub-system 215, that sub-system will load the content of the document
  335, security authentication details and document reference details into the document data
  warehouse 225.
 The payment adviser Internet service 3001 will then execute the workflow definition sub- system
 216 which will display the document workflow screen to allow the payee 300A to specify:
 0        The transport medium and addresses which will be used to send to the payer 1A a
 document 335. The transport medium could include, email, fax. sms, etc. For each transport
 medium chosen the payee is required to enter the address of the payer. For example if the email
 transport is selected, then the payee will be required to enter the email address of the payer.
 0        The "return" transport medium and addresses which can be used by the payer 1A to
 submit the responding financial document 45. Example transport channels include an email
 address, fax number or a URI to upload a financial document 45. The URI contains the web
 address of PA the payment adviser Internet service 300, the resource name of the document
 receiver sub-system 218, and a unique reference to identify the document 355.
 *        For each "return transport address, ihe payee 300A can specify where the return
document 45 is to be stored and whether it is to be linked to document 335 in the document
data warehouse 255.
A preferred embodiment of the document workflow screen is shown in Figure 8. When the payee
300A completes the document workflow screen and presses ok, the workflow definition sub
system 216 will store the workflow details in the document data warehouse 225 with the details
of the document which has been uploaded. The workflow definition sub-system 218 will also
create and activate the return addresses which the payee has nominated. For example, the
workflow definition sub-system 216 will create and activate the return email address which the
payee has specified in the document workflow screen.
The payment adviser Internet service 3001 will then execute the document sender sub- system
217 which will send document 335 to the payer addresses specified in the

  document workflow screen. Figure 7 illustrates an embodiment of a document 335 which could
  be sent to a payer 1A.
  On receiving a document 335, the payer 1A can respond by first creating a financial document 45
  using an application 40 - such as a commercial accounting package or a word processing
  application. The financial document 45 will contain details of a payment in response to receiving
  document 335 from the payee.
 Once the financial document 45 has been created, the payer 1A can send the document to the
 payee 300A using one of the return addresses which the payee 300A has specified in the
 document. One common approach will be to use the URI link which the payee 300A has
 provided. The payer 1A will be required to open an Internet session, and to enter the URI
 address which has been provided by the payee 300A.
 When the URI link is specified by the payer 1A in an Internet session, this will initiate the
 payment adviser Internet service 3001 to invoke the document receiver sub-system 218 which
 will use the URI to retrieve from the document data warehouse 225 the security authentication
 requirements which the payee 300A has specified. If there are security authentication
 requirements then the document receiver sub-system 218 will display a document upload
 security screen requesting security details.
A preferred embodiment of the document upload security screen is illustrated in figure 9.           If
the payer 1A enters the security details which match the required authentication details, then
the document upload screen illustrated in figure 4 will be displayed to the payer 1A.       For the
financial document 45, the payer is required to specify the following:
*         payment account details of the payee
*        security authentication details
*        document reference code - which should be the same as the document reference code
for the payee document 335.
The payment account details are used to uniquely identify the payee's 300A account which will
receive payment from the payer 1A. The details which are needed to uniquely identify a payee's
300A account can vary between national payments clearance systems. For example in Australia,
a payment bank account is uniquely identified by a BSB and an account number.

  The payer 1A can specify the type of security authentication which needs to be satisfied before
  the payee 300A can access a document. It is preferred that the security authentication is a
  combination of the following:
  *       payment account details (mandatory);
  *       document reference code (mandatory);
  0       payment date
  *       payment amount; and
  0       shared secret between the payer 1A and the payee 300A.
 The payer 1A then uploads the financial document using the document upload sub- system 215.
 The financial document 45 could be a document image, a document produced by a word
 processor program, or it could be an electronic document file containing tagged data values.
 When the financial document 45 is successfully uploaded, the document receiver sub- system
 218 will execute the document workflow manager 219 which will load the content of the
 document 45, security authentication details and document reference details into the document
 data warehouse 225.     The payee's payment account details are also loaded into the payment
 account register 220, and these account details are linked to the details of the financial
 document 45 in the document data warehouse.
 The document receiver sub-system 218 will extract from the document data warehouse 225
the workflow actions which the payee has specified for document 335 and for each return
transport address. The document receiver sub-system 218 will execute the workflow actions
 associated with the transport address which has been used for sending document 45 to the
 payment adviser internet service 3001 (eg. URI). For example, one of the workflow actions
 might be to link document 45 to document 335 in the data warehouse so that the payee can
easily view both documents together.
After the financial document 45 has been uploaded into the payment adviser internet service
3001, the payer then creates a direct credit payment instruction for each financial document
using an application 60 such as an accounting package or using the payer's banking application
70. When creating the payment instruction, the payer 1A is required to enter the document
reference code of financial document 45 in a payment field of the payment instruction.
Examples of the payment reference field include the lodgment reference field or remitter name
field. The field selected needs to be a field which will

  show on the payee's bank statement 315.
  The electronic payment file 80, containing the payment instruction, is electronically issued to the
  payer's financial institution 90 for processing. The electronic payment file 80 can be issued to the
  payer's financial institution 90 using either the in-house application 60 or the banking application
 70. The payer's financial institution 90 will process the electronic payment file and if the payer 1A
  has sufficient funds in his/her bank account will send the payment to the payee's financial
 Institution 300.
 For the payee 300A to access the financial document 45 which the payer has uploaded into the
 payment adviser Internet service 3001, the payee 300A needs to access their bank statement.
 Alternatively, the payee can login onto the payment adviser internet service 3001 and view both
 the payer document 335 and the financial document 45 because both documents will be linked in
 the payment adviser internet service 3001- if requested by the payee 300A in the document
 workflow screen. A payee 300A could use a desktop bank application 310 to view and download
their bank statement 315. Alternatively the payee could request their financial institution for
 paper copies of the bank statement. 315
When the payee 300A views their bank statement 315, the payee extracts the document
 reference code (eg. .implemented as a short URI document reference, such as
www.p.aa/123456789) in the payment reference field for the deposit payment Issued by the
payer 1A.
The payee 300A opens an internet session 340, and enters (or copies) in the internet browser the
document reference code which is specified in the payment reference field of the bank
statement 315.
When the payment adviser internet service 3001 receives a request for the document reference
(eg. URI) with the document id (e.g. 123456789), it will execute the document access sub-system
235, and will display the document access screen. Figure 5 shows the payment adviser internet
service 3001 document access screen which is displayed.
The payee 300A is permitted to enter for the document reference the full document reference
code (e.g. the URI www.p.aa/123456789) or the document id (e.g. 123456789).

  When the "ok" button is selected, the document access sub-system 235 will attempt to validate
  that the document reference exists by checking that the document reference code exists in the
  document data warehouse 225.
  If the document reference is valid, the document access sub-system 235 will display to the payee
  a "document security" Internet screen which is shown in Figure 6. This screen will prompt the
  payee 300A to enter their payment account details, and if requested by the payer 1A, will be
  required to enter other details such as a shared secret, payment amount or payment date.
 When the payee 300A presses the ok button on the "document security" internet screen, the
 document access sub-system 235 will pass the entered security details to the payment account
 authentication function 230. The payment authentication function 230 will query the payment
 account register 220 to verify that there are financial documents associated with the payment
 account and other security details entered (eg. shared secret). The payment account register 220
 will search for the payment account details, and will query the document data warehouse to see
 if there are any financial documents associated with the payment account and have the same
 document reference as entered on the document access screen. If a financial document does
 exist, the payment account register 220 will verify that the other security details match the
security details associated with the financial document.
The results of the search are passed from-the payment account register 220 back to the
document access sub-system 235.
 If there are no documents which match the search, than an error message is displayed to the
payee 300A on the "document security" screen.
If the payment account register 220 determines that there are one or multiple documents
associated with the document reference and security details, then the document access sub
system 235 will call the document display and download function 240 to retrieve the documents.
These documents will be passed to the document access sub-system 235.
if there are multiple documents, 235 will list the multiple documents and display the list to the
payee in the document display screen. The payee will be able to select and view any of the
documents which are listed.

 If there is a single document associated with the document reference and authenticated user,
 235 will display the document to the payee in the document display screen.
 Figure 10 illustrates a system 4000 according to one preferred embodiment of the present
 invention.
 The system 4000 includes a payment adviser Internet service 4001. The payment adviser Internet
 service 4001 includes a payee document and upload process 4002 and a payer document access
 process 4003.
The payee document upload process includes a logon authentication function 210, a document
 upload sub-system 215 and utilizes a payment account register 220 and a document data
warehouse 225.
The payer document access process has a document access sub-system 235 payment account
authentication function 230, and a document display and download function 240.
According to this embodiment, the payer first chooses goods or services to purchase from a
payee 300A. The payer then provides to the payee payment details for the purchase of the
goods and services. Examples of payment details could be Visa credit card payment details, or
bank direct credit account details. The payment details 410 are entered into payee's point of sale
system 4004. The details could be entered using such devices such as Electronic Funds Transfer
at Paint of Sale (EFTPOS), a payment facility on an internet site provided by the payee, or the like
420.
When the payment details 410 are entered, the payee's point of sale system 4004 will execute
the financial document creation function 440. This function will create a financial document 45
that provides details of the payment transaction, and will upload the financial document into the
payment adviser internet service 4001. Examples of the financial document 45 include a
document image, an electronic document file containing tagged data values, or the like.
As described in the previous embodiments, the document upload sub-system 215 offers a variety
of ways to upload a file. A preferred mechanism isfor the payee's point of sale system 4004 to
log onto the payment adviser internet service 4001 using a web service (or the like) associated
with the login authentication function 210. The web service will authenticate the payee's point of
sale system, and will establish a secure internet session between the point of sale system 4004
and the payment adviser Internet service 4001.

  Note, to log onto the payment adviser internet service 4001, the payee is required to register as a
  member of the payment adviser internet service 4001. The registration process follows the same
  process as the payer registration process shown in figure 2.
 The point of sale system will then execute the web service (or the like) associated with the
 document upload sub-system 215, to upload the financial document. A preferred embodiment
 of the input and output fields of the document upload web service is illustrated in figure 11. For
 each financial document 45, the payee's point of sale system is required to provide the following:
 0        payment account details of the payer,
 *        security authentication information,
 *        document reference code, and
 0        document content
The payment account details are used to uniquely identify the payer's financial institution
 account. The details which are needed to uniquely identify a payer's account can vary between
 national payments clearance systems. For example in Australia, a payment bank account is
 uniquely identified by a BSB and an account number.
The payee's point of sale system 4004 can specify the type of security authentication which
needs to be satisfied before the payer can access a document. It is preferred that the security
authentication is a combination of the following:
*         payment account details (mandatory),
*        document reference code (mandatory),
*        payment date,
*        payment amount, or
*        shared secret between the payer and payee.
A document reference code is a short reference which is used to access the financial document,
and is placed as a field in an electronic payment file 80 so that it appears on the payer's bank
statement (and payee's bank statement). Preferred fields for placement of the document
reference code are the lodgment reference field or the remitter name field.
A preferred form of the document reference code 80 is a short Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
which describes the mechanism to access the resource (ie. financial document), the computer on
which the resource is housed (ie. payment adviser internet

  service), and the specific name of the resource. The format of this short URI was described
  previously above.
  When the financial document 45 is successfully uploaded into the payment adviser internet
  service 2001 by the document upload sub-system 215, the sub-system 215 will load the content
  of the document, security authorization details and document reference details into the
  document data warehouse 225. The payer's payment account details are also loaded into the
  payment account register 220 and these account details are linked to the 45 details in the
  document data warehouse.
 After the financial document 45 has been uploaded into the payment adviser internet service
 2001, the payee's point of sale system will execute the payment Instruction function 450. This
 function will create a direct credit payment instruction for the payer's payment details 410.
 When creating the payment instruction, the payee's point of sale system enters the document
 reference code in a payment field of the payment. Examples of the payment reference field
 include the lodgment reference field or remitter name field. The field selected needs to be a field
 which will show on the payer's bank statement.
 The electronic payment file 80, containing the payment instruction, is electronically issued to the
 payee's financial institution 300 for processing. The payee's financial Institution 300 will process
 the electronic payment tile 80, and issue the payment instruction to the payer's financial
 institution 90 which will deduct the payment from the payer's bank account, if the payer has
 sufficient funds. The payment will be sent by the financial institution 90 to the payee's financial
 institution 300, and deposited in the payee's bank account.
 For the payer 1A to access the financial document 45 which the payee has uploaded into the
 payment adviser internet service 4001, the payer 1A needs to access their bank statement 315. A
 payer could use a desktop bank application 70 to view and download their bank statement
Alternately the payer could request their financial institution 90 for paper copies of the bank
statement 315.
 Preferred embodiments of this invention also allow for the document reference code to appear
on the bank statement associated with the payee's bank account. The payee's financial
institution will place the document reference code in a payment reference field associated with
the deposit details of the payment made by the payer. An example

  payment reference field is the lodgment reference field. This will enable the payee to access the
 financial document 45, using the document reference code.
 On viewing their bank statement 315, the payer 1A extracts the document reference code (eg
 implemented as a short URI document reference, such aswww.p.aa/123456789) in the payment
 reference field for the deposit payment issued by the payee. The payer 1A opens an internet
 session 460, and enters (or copies) in the internet browser the document reference code which is
 specified in the payment reference field of the bank statement 315.
 When the payment adviser internet service 4001 receives a request for the document reference
 (eg. URI) with the document id (e.g. 123456789), that service 4001 will execute the document
 access sub-system 235, and will display the document access screen. Figure 5 illustrates a
 preferred embodiment of the document access screen.
The payer 1A is permitted to enter for the document reference the full document reference (eg.
the URI www.p.aa/123456789) or the document id (e.g. 123456789).
When the "ok" button of the document access screen of figure 5 is selected, the document
access sub-system 235 will attempt to validate that the document reference exists by checking
that the document reference code exists in that document data warehouse 225.
If the document reference is valid, the document access sub-system 235 will display to the payer
a document security internet screen. A preferred embodiment of the document security internet
screen is shown in figure 6. This screen will prompt the payer to enter their payment account
details, and if requested by the payer, will be required to enter other details such as a shared
secret payment amount or payment date.
When the payer presses the ok button on the document security internet screen, the document
access sub-system 235 will pass the entered security details to the payment account
authentication function 230. The payment account authentication function 230 will query the
payment account register 220 to verify that there are financial documents associated with the
payment account and other security details entered (e.g. shared secret). The payment account
register 220 will search for the payment account details, and will query the document data
warehouse 225 to see if there are any financial documents associated with the payment account
which have the same document

  reference as entered on the document access screen. If a financial document does exist, the
  payment account register 220 will verify that the other security details match the security details
  associated with the financial document.
 The results of the search are passed from the payment account register 220 back to the
 document access sub-system 235.
 If there are no documents which match the search, then an error message is displayed to the
 payee on the document security screen.
 If the payment account register 220 determines that there are one or multiple documents
 associated with the document reference and security details, then the document access sub
 system 235 will call the document display and download function 240 to retrieve the documents.
These documents will be passed to the document access sub-system 235.
 If there are multiple documents, the document access sub-system 235 will list the multiple
 documents and display the list to the payer in the document display screen. The payer will be
 able to select and view any of the documents which are listed.
 If there is a single document associated with the document reference and authenticated user, the
document access sub-system 235 will display the document to the payer in the document display
screen.
The embodiments of the present invention removes the need by the payee to post a financial
document 45 to the payer, and for the payer to have to search and match the financial document
45 with a payment on the bank statement 315.
While the present invention has been described with reference to a few specific embodiments,
the description is illustrative of the invention and is not to be construed as limiting the invention.
Various modifications may occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention
as claimed.
"Comprises/comprising" when used in this specification is taken to specify the presence of stated
features, integers, steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or
more other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.

 The claims defining the invention are as follows:
 1.       In a system which includes:
                   a payer;
                   a payee; and
                   a payments clearance system which includes a payer's financial institution
                   and a payee's financial institution,
         a process comprising:
                   providing a payments adviser system; and
                  the payer sending
                           to the payee via the payments clearance system
                           a payment; and
                           an identifier that signifies to the payee the location to access a financial
                           document; and
                  the financial document to the location that was signified by the identifier.
2.       A system as claimed in claim 1, in which:
                  the identifier signifies a location within the payments adviser system; and
                  the location to which the payer sends the financial document is that
                  location within the payments adviser system.
3.      A system as claimed in claim 2, in which the identifier is a uniform resource
         identifier (URI).
4.      A system as claimed in any one of claims Ito 3, in which the payments clearance
        system communicates the identifier to the payee.
5.      A system as claimed in claim 4, in which the payments clearance system
        communicates the identifier to the payee by including it in the payee's bank
        statement.
6.      Asystem as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the payments
        clearance system includes the identifier in the payer's bank statement.
7.      A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the payer sends the
        financial document over the Internet.

 8.    A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the payee uses the
       identifier to access the financial document.
 9.    A system as claimed in claim 8, in which the payee is allowed access to the
       financial document only on the production of security authentication information to
       the payments adviser system.
 10.  A system as claimed in claim 9, in which the security authentication information
       comprises the payment account details and a document reference code.
 11.  A system as claimed in claim 10, in which the security authentication information
      further comprises et least one of:
               the payment date;
               the payment amount; and
               a secret shared secret between the payer and payee.
12.   A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further comprising, before the
      payer sends a payment to the payee via the payments clearance system, the payee
      sending a financial document to the payer.
13.  A system as claimed in claim 12, in which at least one of:
              the payer's bank statement; and
              the payee's bank statement,
      includes an identifier that signifies a location of the financial document that the
      payee sends to the payer.
14.  Asystem as claimed in claim 13. in which the location of the financial document
     that the payee sends to the payer is within the payments adviser system.
15.  As system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the financial
     document that the payee sends to the payer includes an identifier that signifies a
     location of a request for a payment that the payee sends to the payer.
16.  A system as claimed in claim 15, in which the location of the request for a
     payment that the payee sends to the payer is within the payments adviser: system.

 17.  A system as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 16, in which the financial
      document that the payee sends to the payer isan invoice.
 18.  A process of a payee accessing a financial document 1he process comprising
      the payee receiving an identifier that signifies to the payee the location to access a
      financial document.
19.  A process as claimed in claim 18, in which the location to access the financial
     document is within a payments adviser system.
20.  A process as claimed in claim 28 or claim 19, the process further comprising the payee
     using the identifier to access the financial document.
21.  A process of a payer:
               sending to a payee through a payments clearance system:
                        a payment; and
                        an identifier that signifies to the payee the location to access a financial
                        document; and
               sending that financial document to the location that is signified by the
               identifier.
22.  A process as claimed in claim 21, In which:
              the identifier signifies a location within a payments adviser system; and the
               location to which the -payee sends the financial document is that location within
              the payments adviser system.
23.  In a system which includes:
              a payer.
              a payee; and
              a payments clearance system which includes a payer's financial institution and a
              payee's financial institution.
     a process comprising:
              providing a payments adviser system; and
              the payee sending
                       to the payer's financial institution through the payments clearance
                       system:
                               a request for a payment; and

                                 an identifier that signifies to the payer the location to access
                                 a financial document; and
                        the financial document to the location that issignified by the
                        identifier.
 24.   A process as claimed in claim 23, in which:
               the identifier signifies a location within the payments adviser system; and the
               location to which the payee sends the financial document is that location within
               the payments adviser system.
 25.  A system as claimed in claim 23 or claim 24, in which the identifier is a uniform
      resource identifier (URI).
 26.  A system as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 25, in which the payments
      clearance system communicates the identifier to the payer.
 27.  A system as claimed in claim 26, in which the payments clearance system
      communicates the identifier to the payer by including it in the payer's bank
      statement.
28.  A system as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 27, in which the payments
      clearance system includes the identifier in the payee's bank statement
29.  A system as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 28, in which the payee sends the financial
     document over the internet.
30.  A system as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 29, in which the payer uses the
     identifier to access the financial document.
31.  A system as claimed in claim 30, in which the payer is allowed access to the
     financial document only on the production of security authentication information to the
     payments adviser system.
32.  A system as claimed in claim 31, in which the security authentication information
     comprises the payment account details and a document reference code.

 33.     A system as claimed in claim 32, in which the security authentication information
         further comprises at least one of:
                   the payment date;
                  the payment amount; and
                  a secret shared secret between the payer and payee.
34.     A system as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 33 further comprising, before the
         payee sends a request for payment to the payer's financial institution, the payee
        sends a financial document to the payer.
35.     A system as claimed in claim 34, in which at least one of:
                  the payer's bank statement; and
                  the payee's bank statement,
        includes an identifier that signifies a location of the financial document that the
        payee sends to the payer.
36.     A system as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 35, in which the financial
        document that the payee sends to the payer includes an identifier that signifies a
        location of the request for a payment that the payee sends to the payer.
37.     A system as claimed in claim 36, in which the location of the request for a
        Payment that the payee sends to the payer iswithin the payments adviser system.
38.        A system as claimed in claim 36 or claim 37, in which the financial document that
           the payee sends to the payer is an invoice.
39.     A system as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 38, in which both:
                 the request for a payment; and
                 the identifier that signifies to the payer the location to access a financial
                 document within the payments adviser system,
are both generated within a point-of-sale transaction system operated by the payee.

40. A process of a payee:
             sending to a payer's financial institution through a payment clearance
            system;
                     a request for a payment; and
                     an identifier that signifies to the payer the location to access a
                     financial document; and
            sending that financial document to the location that issignified by the
            identifier.
41. A process as claimed in claim 40, in which:
            the identifier signifies a location within the payments adviser system; and the
            location to which the payer sends the financial document is that location within
           the payments adviser.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
