Abstract
Biomass (e.g., plant biomass, animal biomass, and municipal waste biomass) is
processed to produce useful intermediates and products, such as aliphatic hydroxy
carboxylic acid and hydroxyl-carboxylic acid derivatives. These aliphatic hydroxy
carboxylic acids are, in turn, polymerized. The polymerization is carried out using a
thin film evaporator or a thin film polymerization/devolatilization device. Conversion
of lactic acid to poly lactic acid is an especially useful product to this process.

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
                        PROCESSING HYDROXY-CARBOXYLIC
                                     ACIDS TO POLYMERS
             [0001]       This application incorporates by reference the full disclosure of the
             following co-pending provisional application: USSN 61/816,664, filed April 26,
             2013 and the co-pending provisional application: USSN 61/941,771 filed
             February 19, 2014.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             [0002]       Many potential lignocellulosic feedstocks are available today,
             including agricultural residues, woody biomass, municipal waste, oilseeds/cakes
             and seaweed, to name a few. At present, these materials are often under-utilized,
             being used, for example, as animal feed, biocompost materials, burned in a co
             generation facility or even landfilled.
             [0003]       Lignocellulosic biomass includes crystalline cellulose fibrils
             embedded in a hemicellulose matrix, surrounded by lignin. This produces a
             compact matrix that is difficult to access by enzymes and other chemical,
             biochemical and/or biological processes. Cellulosic biomass materials (e.g.,
             biomass material from which the lignin has been removed) is more accessible to
             enzymes and other conversion processes, but even so, naturally-occurring
             cellulosic materials often have low yields (relative to theoretical yields) when
             contacted with hydrolyzing enzymes. Lignocellulosic biomass is even more
             recalcitrant to enzyme attack. Furthermore, each type of lignocellulosic biomass
             has its own specific composition of cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin.
                                              SUMMARY
             [0004]       Generally, this disclosure relates to methods and processes for
             converting a material, such as a biomass feedstock, e.g., cellulosic, starchy or
             lignocellulosic materials, to useful products, for example, hydroxy-carboxylic
             acids (e.g., alpha, beta, gamma and delta hydroxy-carboxylic acids) and
             derivatives of hydroxy-carboxylic acid(e.g., esters). Then, in turn, the hydroxy
             carboxylic acid is polymerized to poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids. Such hydroxy
             carboxylic acids can be poly-hydroxy-carboxylic acids, e.g. di-, tri-, tetra-, penta-,
                                                    1

WO 2014/176509                                                                PCT/US2014/035469
             hexa- hepta- and octa-hydroxy carboxylic acids. The poly-hydroxy-carboxylic
             acid can be substituted with other groups, e.g., alkyl groups. The carbon chain of
             the carboxylic acid may be straight chained, branched, cyclic, or alicyclic.
             [0005]       Among the important products that can be produced from
             lignocellulosic biomass are hydroxy-carboxylic acids. These acids, e.g., the
             alpha, beta and gamma hydroxyl substituted acids can be polymerized to produce
             important polymers. The methyl substituted alpha acid, D-lactic acid and/or L
             lactic acid, is commercially produced and polymerized to polylactic acid. This
             polymer is an important in that it can be produced in forms such that it can be
             spun into fibers, extruded into solid products and other products that require
             complex polymer processing. Since polylactic acid and the other polymers of
             alpha, beta, gamma and delta hydroxy-carboxylic acids are biodegradable they
             offer interest target polymers for the bioprocessing industry. The most prevalent
             process to produce polylactic acid involves converting of the lactic acid to an
             oligomer, depolymerizing to obtain lactide dimer and polymerizing that
             molecule. There is still a need for processing that involves a more direct
             synthesis of the polymerized product without isolation of intermediates.
             [0006]       A method of making a high molecular weight polymer or copolymer
             e.g., from oligomer, the method comprising evaporating water as it is formed
             during condensation of a hydroxy-carboxylic acid polymer e.g. an oligomer or a
             polymer, as it traverses a surface of a thin film polymerization/devolatilization
             device. Where the hydroxy carboxylic acid has stereocenters, the stereocenters
             can be maintained during the polymerization process. In some instances, the
             hydroxy-carboxylic acid is an aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic. For instance, D
             lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid become polymers of D-lactic acid and/or polymers
             of L-lactic acid respectively, with little loss of stereo integrity. It is understood
             that the process described herein preserves the stereochemistry where the
             biochemistry and chemical processes preserve the stereochemistry. If both the D
             and L isomer monomer is listed it is understood that the D isomer monomer will
             become a D polymer and the L isomer monomer will become a D polymer.
             When a hydroxy-carboxylic acid is listed without its stereochemistry it is
             understood that D, L, meso, and/or mixtures are assumed.
             [0007]       In another embodiment, a copolymer of a hydroxy-carboxylic polymer
             can be a copolymer of the hydroxy-carboxylic acid monomers and other
                                                     2

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             compatible monomers. The copolymer can be a copolymer from different
             hydroxy-carboxylic acid monomers, e.g., a mixture of lactic acid and another 3
             hydroxy butyric acid. The copolymer can also be obtained from copolymerizing
             oligomers of different hydroxy-carboxylic acids.
             [0008]      In a particular embodiment, a method of making poly aliphatic
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids by the conversion of a crude aliphatic hydroxy
             carboxylic monomer to a poly aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acids, comprising the
             steps of:
                             a) providing a source of monomer as aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic
                             acid in a hydroxylic medium;
                             b) concentrating the aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acid in the
                             hydroxylic medium by evaporating a substantial portion of the
                             hydroxylic medium to form a concentrated acid solution;
                             c) oligomerizing the aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acid to obtain
                             an aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acid oligomer with a degree of
                             oligomerization from about 5 to about 50;
                             d) adding a polymerization catalyst to the hydroxyl-carboxylic
                             acid oligomer;
                             e) polymerizing the aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acid and
                             aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acid oligomer to obtain a poly
                             aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acid with a degree of polymerization
                             of about 35 to about;
                             f) transferring the poly aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acid to a thin
                             film polymerization/ devolatilization device to obtain a degree of
                             polymerization of about 300 to about 20,000;
                             g) isolating the poly aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acid and
             wherein for steps d, e, f, and g cyclic dimers derived from the aliphatic hydroxy
             carboxylic acid are less than 10 weight percent based on the total mass of the
             aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acids monomers, oligomers and polymers, The thin
             film polymerization/devolatilization device is configured such that fluid polymer
             is conveyed to the device such that the film of the fluid polymer is less than 1 cm
             thick and provides a means for volatilizing the water formed in the reaction and
             other volatile components. The temperature of the thin film evaporator and
             polymerization/devolatilization device are from 100 to 2400 C and the pressure of
                                                    3

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             the device is from 0.000014 to 50 kPa. A full vacuum may be used in the
             evaporator device. Pressures can be e.g., less than 0.01 torr, alternatively less
             than 0.001 torr and optionally less than 0.0001 torr.
             [0009]       The polymerization steps c, e, and f are three polymerization stages, 1,
             2 and 3, of polymerization of the aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acids.
             [00010]      The thin film evaporator or thin film polymerization/devolatilization
             device are also a convenient place to add other components to the poly aliphatic
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids. These other components can include other monomers
             including the aliphatic hydroxy-carboxylic acids, homologues of the aliphatic
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids, diols, dicarboxylic acids, alcohol amines, diamines and
             similar reactive species. Reactive components such as peroxides, glycidyl
             acrylates, epoxides and the like can also be added at this stage in the process.
             [00011]      An extruder also can be in fluid contact or fluid communications with
             the thin film evaporator and/or thin film polymerization/devolatilization device
             and can be used to recycle the polymer and/or to provide the means to process the
             poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid to the isolation portion of the process. The
             extruder is also a convenient device to add other components and reactives listed
             above and discussed below, especially if they would be volatilized in the thin
             film polymerization/ devolatilization device. In one aspect, the disclosure relates
             to a method for making a product including treating a reduced recalcitrance
             biomass (e.g., lignocellulosic or cellulosic material) with one or more enzymes
             and/or organisms to produce a hydroxyl-carboxylic acid (e.g., an alpha, beta,
             gamma or delta hydroxyl-carboxylic acid) and converting the hydroxyl
             carboxylic acid to the product.
             [00012]      Optionally, the feedstock is pretreated with at least one method
             selected from irradiation (e.g., with an electron beam), heat treatment, sonication,
             oxidation, pyrolysis and steam explosion, for example, to reduce the recalcitrance
             lignocellulosic or cellulosic material. In one implementation of the method, the
             hydroxyl-carboxylic acid is converted chemically, for example, by converting D
             lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid to esters by treating with an alcohol and an acid
             catalyst. Other methods of chemically converting that can be utilized include
             polymerization, isomerization, esterification, oxidation, reduction,
             disproportionation and combinations of these. Some examples of hydroxy
             carboxylic acids that can be produced and then further converted include glycolic
                                                    4

WO 2014/176509                                                                 PCT/US2014/035469
             acid, lactic acid, malic acid, citric acid, and tartaric acid ( di substituted), 3
             hydroxybutyric acid (beta substituted), 4-hydroxybutyric acid (gamma
             substituted), 3 hydroxyvaleric acid (beta substituted), gluconic acid (tetra
             substituted at alpha, beta, gamma, and delta carbons with an additional hydroxy
             at the epsilon carbon).
             [00013]      In some other implementation, the lignocellulosic or cellulosic
             material is treated with one of more enzymes to release one or more sugars; for
             example, to release glucose, xylose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, mannose,
             galactose, arabinose, fructose, dimers of these such as cellobiose, heterodimers of
             these such as sucrose, oligomers of these, and mixtures of these. Optionally,
             treating can further include (e.g., subsequently to releasing sugars) utilizing (e.g.,
             by contacting with the sugars and/or biomass) one or more organisms to produce
             the hydroxyl-carboxylic acid. For example, the sugars can be fermented by a
             sugar fermenting organism to the hydroxyl acid. Sugars that are released from the
             biomass can be purified (e.g., prior to fermenting) by, for example, a method
             selected from electrodialysis, distillation, centrifugation, filtration, cation
             exchange chromatography and combinations of these in any order.
             [00014]      In some implementation, converting comprises polymerizing the
             hydroxyl-carboxylic acid to a polymer in successive steps of increasing
             conversion as measured by degree of polymerization. The degree of
             polymerization is based on the number average molecular weight, Mn. The
             polymerization can be in a melt (e.g., without a solvent and above the melting
             point of the polymer), can be in a solid state, or can be in a solution (e.g., with an
             added solvent).
             [00015]      Optionally, when the polymerization method is direct condensation,
             the polymerization can include utilizing coupling agents and/or chain extenders
             to increase the molecular weight of the polymer. For example, the coupling
             agents and/or chain extenders can include triphosgene, carbonyl diimidazole,
             dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, diisocyanate, acid chlorides, acid anhydrides,
             epoxides, thiirane, oxazoline, orthoester, and mixtures of these. Alternatively,
             the polymer can have a co monomer which is a polycarboxylic acid or polyols or
             a combination of these.
             [00016]      Optionally, polymerizations can be done utilizing catalysts and/or
             promoters. The catalyst can be added after a desired degree of polymerization is
                                                      5

WO 2014/176509                                                                 PCT/US2014/035469
             obtained. For example, protonic acids and Lewis acids may be used. Examples of
             the acids include sulfonic acids, H3 PO 4 , H2 SO 4 , sulfonic acids, e, g, methane
             sulfonic acid, p-toluene sulfonic acid, Nafion@ NR 50 H' form From DuPont,
             Wilmington DE ( sulfonic acid supported/bonded to a polymer that optionally
             may have a tetrafluorethylene backbone) , acids supported on or bonded onto
             polymers, metals, Mg, Al, Ti, Zn, Sn, metal oxides, TiO 2 , ZnO, GeO 2 , ZrO 2 ,
             SnO, SnO 2 , Sb 2 0 3 , metal halides, ZnCl 2 , SnCl 2, AlCl 3 SnC14 , Mn(AcO) 2,
             Fe2(LA) 3, Co(AcO) 2, Ni(AcO) 2, Cu(OA) 2, Zn(LA) 2 , Y(OA) 3, Al(i-PrO) 3,
             Ti(BuO) 4, TiO(acac) 2, (Bu) 2 SnO, tin octoate, solvates of any of these and
             mixtures of these can be used. For instance, p-toluene sulfonic acid and tin
             octoate or tin chloride may be used together.
             [00017]      The polymerizations can be done at a temperature between about 100
             and about 260 'C, such as between about 110 and about 240 'C or between about
             120 and about 200 'C. Optionally, at least a portion of the polymerizations can be
             performed under vacuum (e.g., between about 0.005 to 300kPa).
             [00018]      After the polymerization has reached the desired molecular weight, it
             may be necessary to deactivate and/or remove the catalyst from the polymer. The
             catalyst can be reacted with a variety of compounds, including, silica,
             functionalized silica, alumina, clays, functionalized clays, amines, carboxylic
             acids, phosphites, acetic anhydride, functionalized polymers, EDTA and similar
             chelating agents.
             [00019]      While not being bound by theory for those catalysts like the tin
             systems, if the added compound can occupy multiple sites on the tin it can be
             rendered inactive for polymerization (and depolymerization). For example, a
             compound like EDTA can occupy several sites in the coordination sphere of the
             tin and, in turn, interfere with the catalytic sites in the coordination sphere.
             Alternatively, the added compound can be of sufficient size and the catalyst can
             adhere to its surface, such that the absorbed catalyst may be filtered from the
             polymer. Those added compounds such as silica may have sufficient acidic/basic
             properties that the silica adsorbs the catalyst and is filterable.
             [00020]      In the implementations wherein polymers are made from the D-lactic
             acid and/or L-lactic acid or other hydroxy-carboxylic acids, the methods can
             further include blending the polymer with a second polymer. For example, a
             second polymer can include polyglycols, polyvinyl acetate, polyolefins, styrenic
                                                      6

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             resins, polyacetals, poly (meth) acrylates, polycarbonate, polybutylene succinate,
             elastomers, polyurethanes, natural rubber, polybutadiene, neoprene, silicone, and
             combinations of these. This blending is intended to create a physical blend of
             polymers. The blending may be accomplished in the thin film
             polymerization/devolatilization device by adding the second polymer into the
             recycle loop or utilizing the optional extruder. After the blending is complete,
             crosslinking means may be done to crosslink the polymers with crosslinking
             additives or crosslinking processes described below. Peroxides may be added to
             facilitate crosslinking.
             [00021]      In other implementations wherein polymers are made from the
             hydroxy-carboxylic acid a co-monomer can be co-polymerized with the
             hydroxy-carboxylic acid. For example, the co-monomer can include elastomeric
             units, lactones, glycolic acid, carbonates, morpholinediones, epoxides, 1,4
             benzodioxepin-2,5-(3H)-dione glycosalicylide, 1,4- benzodioxepin-2,5-(3H, 3
             methyl)-dione lactosalicylide, dibenzo-1,5 dioxacin-6-12-dione disalicylide,
             morpholine-2,5-dione, 1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione glycolide, oxepane-2-one c
             caprolactone, 1,3-dioxane-2-one trimethylene carconate, 2,2
             dimethyltrimethylene carbonate, 1,5-dioxepane-2-one, 1,4-dioxane-2-one p
             dioxanone, gamma-butyrolactone, beta-butyrolactone, beta-me-delta
             valerolactone, 1,4-dioxane-2,3-dione ethylene oxalate, 3-[benzyloxycarbonyl
             methyl]-1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione, ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, 5,5'(oxepane-2
             one), 2,4,7,9-tetraoxa-spiro[5,5]undecane-3,8-dione Spiro-bid-dimethylene
             caronate and mixtures of these.
             [00022]      The polymers of poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids are polyesters. These
             polymers may be modified by adding or aromatic alcohols and/or or aromatic
             carboxylic acids during one of the steps in the polymerization process. An
             optional place to add these alcohols and/or carboxylic acids are at the processing
             by the thin film polymerization/devolatilization device. An optional combination
             of alcohols and carboxylic acids, are to add nearly equimolar amounts of diols
             and dicarboxylic acids to the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids. By holding the ratio
             of diols to dicarboxylic acids nearly equimolar the resultant higher molecular
             weight polymer will have properties similar to the parent poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acids, but with the advantages of the higher molecular weight of the
                                                    7

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             polymer. Optionally, the ratio of aliphatic or aromatic diols and/or aliphatic or
             aromatic carboxylic diacids is from 0.95 to 1.05; or 0.975 to 1.025.
             [00023]     Tri substituted polyols and/or trisubstituted carboxylic acids may also
             be added to the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid to obtain a crosslinked material.
             The mole ratio of these trisubstituted additives must be less than 10 mole percent,
             optionally, less than 5 mole percent, or further optionally, less than 2 mole
             percent based on the total number of monomer units of the poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acids. These tri substituted can be processed/added to the polymer
             melt in the thin film polymerization/ devolatilization device or can be
             processed/added to the polymer melt in the extruder.
             [00024]     The diol and dicarboxylic acids and the triol and/or trisubstituted
             carboxylic acids may be added at any of the steps c, e and f described above.
             [00025]     In general, to achieve high molecular weights of the poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acid the total moles of alcohol groups and carboxylic acid groups
             should be controlled close to equimolar amounts of alcohol and carboxylic acid
             groups. The difference from equimolar should be more than 0.90 to no more than
             1.10 mole ratio of alcohol to carboxylic acid. Additionally, the ratio is more than
             0.95 to no more than 1.05 and, optionally, more than 0.98 to no more than 1.02.
             The calculation of alcohol and carboxylic acid should include any di and tri
             substituted compounds described above.
             [00026]     When the di and/or trisubstituted reactants are included in the
             polymerization steps 1, 2 and 3 or especially steps 2 and 3, the resultant polymer
             can be a block polymer with blocks of the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids units
             separated by the added di and/or trisubstituted monomers.
             [00027]     The diol/triol and diacid/triacid additives can be controlled based on
             the monomer units of the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid. In one embodiment, the
             total moles of the diol/triol and diacid/triacid additives can be less than 10 mole
             percent of the monomer units of the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids. For instance,
             for the monomer D-lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid the Mn molecular weight is
             divided by 72 to determine the number if monomer units. The 72 is obtained
             from the 90 molecular weight of D-lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid less that water
             (molecular weight 18) which is a byproduct of each condensation step.
             [00028]     In any implementation wherein polymers are made, the method can
             further include branching and/or cross linking the polymer. For example, the
                                                    8

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             polymers can be treated with a cross linking agent including 5,5'-bis(oxepane-2
             one)(bis- r -caprolactone)), spiro-bis-dimethylene carbonate, peroxides, dicumyl
             peroxide, benzoyl peroxide, unsaturated alcohols, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, 2
             butene-1,4-diol, unsaturated anhydrides, maleic anhydride, saturated epoxides,
             glycidyl methacrylate, irradiation and combinations of these. Optionally, a
             molecule (e.g., a polymer) can be grafted to the polymer. For example, grafting
             can be done treating the polymer with irradiation, peroxide, crossing agents,
             oxidants, heating or any method that can generate a cation, anion, or radical on
             the polymer.
             [00029]      In any implementation wherein polymers are processed, processing
             can include injection molding, blow molding, spinning into fibers and
             thermoforming.
             [00030]      In any implementation wherein polymers are made, the polymers can
             be combined with fillers (e.g., by extrusion and/or compression molding). For
             example, some fillers that can be used include silicates, layered silicates, polymer
             and organically modified layered silicate, synthetic mica, carbon, carbon fibers,
             glass fibers, boric acid, talc, montmorillonite, clay, starch, corn starch, wheat
             starch, cellulose fibers, paper, rayon, non-woven fibers, wood flours, whiskers of
             potassium titanate, whiskers of aluminum borate, 4,4'-thiodiphenol, glycerol and
             mixtures of these.
             [00031]      In any implementation wherein polymers are processed, the polymers
             can be combined with a dye and/or a fragrance. For example, dyes that can be
             used include blue3, blue 356, brown 1, orange 29, violet 26, violet 93, yellow 42,
             yellow 54, yellow 82 and combinations of these. Examples of fragrances include
             wood, evergreen, redwood, peppermint, cherry, strawberry, peach, lime,
             spearmint, cinnamon, anise, basil, bergamot, black pepper, camphor, chamomile,
             citronella, eucalyptus, pine, fir, geranium, ginger, grapefruit, jasmine, juniper
             berry, lavender, lemon, mandarin, marjoram, musk, myrrh, orange, patchouli,
             rose, rosemary, sage, sandalwood, tea tree, thyme, wintergreen, ylang ylang,
             vanilla, new car or mixtures of these fragrances. Fragrances can be used in any
             amount, for example, between about 0.005 % by weight and about 20 % by
             weight (e.g., between about 0.1 % and about 5 wt. %,between about 0.25 wt.%
             and about 2.5 %).
                                                     9

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             [00032]      In any implementation wherein polymers are processed, the polymer
             can be blended with a plasticizer. For example, plasticizers include triacetin,
             tributyl citrate, polyethylene glycol, GRINDSTED@ SOFT-N-SAFE (from
             Danisco, DuPont, Wilmington DE, diethyl bishydroxymethyl malonate and
             mixtures of these.
             [00033]      In any of the implementations wherein polymers are made, the
             polymers can be processed or further processed by shaping, molding, carving,
             extruding and/or assembling the polymer into the product.
             [00034]      In another aspect, the disclosure relates to products made by the
             methods discussed above. For example, the products include a converted
             hydroxyl-carboxylic acid wherein the hydroxyl-carboxylic acid is produced by
             the fermentation of biomass derived sugars (e.g., glycolic acid, D-lactic acid
             and/or L-lactic acid, D-malic acid, L-malic, citric acid and D-tartaric acid, L
             tartaric acid and meso-tartaric acid). The biomass includes cellulosic and
             lignocellulosic materials and these can release sugars by acidic or enzymatic
             saccharification. In addition, the biomass can be treated, e.g., by irradiation.
             [00035]      The products, for example, include polymers, including one or more
             hydroxyl acids in the polymer backbone and optionally non-hydroxyl-carboxylic
             acid s in the polymer backbone. Optionally the polymers can be cross-linked or
             graft co-polymers. Optionally the polymer can be, blended with a second
             polymer, blended with a plasticizer, blended with an elastomer, blended with a
             fragrance, blended with a dye, blended with a pigment, blended with a filler or
             blended with a combination of these.
             [00036]      Some of the products described herein, for example, D-lactic acid
             and/or L-lactic acid, can be produced by chemical methods. However,
             fermentative methods can be much more efficient, providing high biomass
             conversion, selective conversion and high production rates. In particular,
             fermentative methods can produce D or L isomers of hydroxyl-carboxylic acid s
             (e.g., lactic acid) at chiral purity of near 100% or mixtures of these isomers,
             whereas the chemical methods typically produce racemic mixtures of the D and L
             isomers. When a hydroxy-carboxylic acid is listed without its stereochemistry it
             is understood that D, L, meso, and/or mixtures are assumed.
                                                      10

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             [00037]      The methods describe herein are also advantageous in that the starting
             materials (e.g., sugars) can be completely derived from biomass (e.g., cellulosic
             and lignocellulosic materials). In addition, some of the products described herein
             such as polymers of hydroxyl-carboxylic acid s (e.g., poly lactic acid) are
             compostable, biodegradable and/or recyclable. Therefore, the methods described
             herein can provide useful materials and products from renewable sources (e.g.,
             biomass) wherein the products themselves can be re-utilized or simply safely
             returned to the environment.
             [00038]      For example, some products that can be made by the methods,
             systems or equipment described herein include personal care items, tissues,
             towels, diapers, green packaging, compostable pots, consumer electronics, laptop
             casings, mobile phone casings, appliances, food packaging, disposable
             packaging, food containers, drink bottles, garbage bags, waste compostable bags,
             mulch films, controlled release matrices, controlled release containers, containers
             for fertilizers, containers for pesticides, containers for herbicides, containers for
             nutrients, containers for pharmaceuticals, containers for flavoring agents,
             containers for foods, shopping bags, general purpose film, high heat film, heat
             seal layer, surface coating, disposable tableware, plates, cups, forks, knives,
             spoons, sporks, bowls, automotive parts, panels, fabrics, under hood covers,
             carpet fibers, clothing fibers, fibers for garments, fibers for sportswear, fibers for
             footwear, surgical sutures, implants, scaffolding and drug delivery systems.
             [00039]      Other features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from
             the following detailed description, and from the claims.
                                DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
             [00040]      The foregoing will be apparent from the following more particular
             description of example embodiments of the disclosure, as illustrated in the
             accompanying. The drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being
             placed upon illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure.
             [00041]      FIG. 1 shows a generalized scheme for the polymerization process
             with the thin film polymerization/devolatilization device.
             [00042]      FIG. 2a shows a schematic of a polymerization unit that has an
             example of a thin film polymerization/devolatilization device and an extruder.
                                                     11

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             [00043]     FIG. 2b shows a cutaway of the thin film
             polymerization/devolatilization device with the sloped surface upon which the
             molten polymer flows.
             [00044]     FIG. 3 is a flow diagram showing processes for manufacturing
             products from a biomass feedstock.
             [00045]     FIG. 4 is a schematic showing some possible chemical pathways for
             producing poly lactic acid.
             [00046]     FIG. 5 is a plot of lactic acid production in a 1.2 L Bioreactor.
             [00047]     FIG. 6 is a plot of lactic acid production in a 20 L Bioreactor.
             [00048]     FIG. 7 is a plot of GPC data for poly lactic acid.
             [00049]     FIG. 8 shows the chemical structures of some exemplary hydroxyl
             acids.
             [00050]     FIG. 9a shows a small scale polymerization unit that has an example
             of a laboratory-scale thin film polymerization/devolatilization device.
             [00051]     FIG. 9b shows a cutaway of the thin film
             polymerization/devolatilization device with the sloped surface upon which the
             molten polymer flows.
             [00052]     FIG. 10 shows a schematic of a shell and tube heat exchanger with
             molten flow of polymer down the inside surface of the tubes.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             [00053]     Using the equipment, methods and systems described herein,
             cellulosic and lignocellulosic feedstock materials, for example, that can be
             sourced from biomass (e.g., plant biomass, animal biomass, paper, and municipal
             waste biomass) and that are often readily available but difficult to process, can be
             turned into useful products such as sugars and hydroxy-carboxylic acids.
             Included are equipment, methods and systems to chemically convert the
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids products produced from the biomass to a secondary
             product such as polymers (e.g., poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid) and polymer
             derivatives (e.g., composites, elastomers and co-polymers).
             [00054]      Hydroxy-carboxylic acids can undergo condensation reactions to
             obtain polyester polymers. Since the hydroxy-carboxylic acids and the
             polymeric products are derived from biomass they are a renewable product.
                                                     12

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             [00055]      In one embodiment, the method of making a high molecular weight
             polymer or copolymer from oligomer, the method comprising evaporating water
             as it is formed during condensation of an hydroxy-carboxylic acid oligomer e.g.
             an aliphatic hydroxy carboxylic acid, as it traverses a surface of a thin film
             evaporator. Water, as a coproduct of the condensation, needs to be removed from
             the high molecular weight polymer or copolymer, to maximize the conversion to
             higher molecular weight materials and minimize the undesirable reverse reaction
             where the water adds back and releases a monomer unit, dimer unit or oligomer
             of the hydroxyl-carboxylic acid.
             [00056]       In another embodiment, the thin film evaporator unit operation is
             described in more detail and the polymerization process is denoted in three steps
             or stages for the conversion to high molecular weight polymers. Fig. 1 shows a
             schematic of the polymerization process with the three polymerization steps
             indicated. A recycle loop which takes the product of the thin film evaporator/thin
             film polymerization/devolatilization device and recycle to the input of the thin
             film evaporator/thin film polymerization/devolatilization device. The thin film
             evaporator/thin film polymerization/devolatilization device product stream may
             be split between recycle and sending a portion of the product stream to product
             collection.
             [00057]      First, excess water is removed from the hydroxyl- carboxylic acid. As
             the acid is derived from biomass processing, it is likely in an aqueous solvent.
             The condensation process to make the polyester produces water and thus, the
             excess water must be removed. The removal may be done in a batch or
             continuous process, with or without vacuum and at temperatures to achieve
             effective water removal rates. Some condensation to form ester bonds can occur
             during step 1 and low molecular weight oligomers may be formed.
             [00058]      After excess water is removed, further heating and, optional
             processing with vacuum to remove more water. At this stage in the process, the
             conversion of the hydroxy-carboxylic acid results in a degree of oligomerization
             is about 5 to about 50 based on the number average molecular weight of the
             oligomer/polymer.
             [00059]      A polymerization catalyst is added to the oligomer/polymer system.
             The candidate polymer catalyst(s) is described above and further described
             below. The catalyst may be added by any convenient means. For instance, the
                                                    13

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             catalyst components can be dissolved/dispersed into the hydroxy-carboxylic acid
             and added to the oligomer/polymer with degree of oligomerization of about 5 to
             50.
             [00060]     With the catalyst present more conversion of the oligomer/polymer
             mixture occurs to obtain a degree of polymerization of about 35 to about 500.
             This is achieved by the catalytic action of the catalysts added and a combination
             of more heating and higher vacuums.
             [00061]     Next the thin film polymerization/devolatilization device is utilized to
             obtain polymers with a degree of polymerization of about 300 to about 20,000.
             The thin film has a thickness of less than lcm, optionally less than 0.5 cm, or
             further less than 0.25 cm, additional less than 0.1 cm.
             [00062]      Throughout the process and when the catalyst is added cyclic dimers
             derived from the hydroxy-carboxylic acid are less than 10 weight percent based
             on the total mass of the hydroxy-carboxylic acids monomers, oligomers and
             polymers (and copolymers). The thin film polymerization/devolatilization device
             is configured such that fluid polymer is conveyed to the device such that the film
             of the fluid polymer is less than 1 cm thick and the device provides a means for
             volatilizing the water formed in the reaction and other volatile components. The
             polymerization type is characterized as polymerization in the melt phase. The
             thin/film polymerization/devolatilization device and the thin film evaporator
             describe herein are similar in that they accomplish the same function. When the
             hydroxy-carboxylic acid is D-lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid, the cyclic dimer is
             denoted as lactide, although lactide can more generally refer these cyclic dimers.
             For lactic acid, the lactide is 3,6-dimethyl-1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione, with no
             stereochemistry denoted.
             [00063]     Optionally, the hydroxy-carboxylic cyclic dimers are less than 5
             weight percent based on the total mass of the hydroxy-carboxylic monomers,
             oligomers and polymers (copolymers). In another embodiment, the hydroxy
             carboxylic cyclic dimers are less than 2.5 based on the total mass of the hydroxy
             carboxylic acids monomers, oligomers and polymers weight percent.
             [00064]     The hydroxylic medium can be water; mixtures of water and
             compatible solvents such as methanol, ethanol; and low molecular weight
             alcohols such as methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, iso-propanol, n-butanol, iso
             butanol, and similar alcohols.
                                                    14

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             [00065]     The temperature of the thin film polymerization/ devolatilization
             device is from 100 to 2600 C. Optionally, the temperature of the thin film
             polymerization/ devolatilization device is from 120 to 240' C. Additionally, the
             temperature is between 140 and 220 'C.
             [00066]     The thin film polymerization/devolatilization device can operate at
             high vacuum with pressures of 0.0001 torr and lower. The thin film
             polymerization/ devolatilization device can operate e.g. at 0.001 torr or lower; or
             0.01 torr or lower. During some stages of operation the operating pressures can
             be considered low and medium vacuum; 760 to 25 torr and 25 to 0.001 torr,
             respectively. The device may operate at a pressure of 100 to 0.000 1 torr, or
             alternatively, 50 to 0.001 torr, or optionally, 25 to 0.001 torr.
             [00067]     The thin film polymerization/devolatilization device can optionally
             include a recycle loop in which the melt polymerization product is recycled to the
             entrance point of the thin film polymerization/ devolatilization device. It can also
             be coupled to an extrusion device. The melt polymerization product can be
             processed from the thin film polymerization/devolatilization device to an extruder
             which can pass the product to finished product area. Alternately, the flow of the
             output of the extruder may be directed back to the thin film
             polymerization/devolatilization device. The flow may be split between the
             product and the recycle. The extruder system is a convenient location to
             incorporate additives into the melt polymerization product for recycle and
             subsequent reaction or for blending into the polymer stream prior to transferring
             to the product finishing area. The additives were described above and below.
             The additive addition includes compounds that react into the polymer, react on
             the polymer or physically mix with the polymer.
             [00068]     FIG. 2a is a schematic of a polymerization system to polymerize
             hydroxy carboxylic acid. The thin film evaporator or thin film polymerization/
             devolatilization device (200), an (optional) extruder (202) for product isolation or
             recycle back to the thin film evaporator or thin film polymerization/
             devolatilization device, a heated recycle loop (204), a heated condenser (206),
             cooled condenser (208) for condensing water and other volatile components, a
             collection vessel (210) a fluid transfer unit (212) to remove condensed water and
             volatile components {this effluent may be taken to a another unit operation to
             recover the useful volatile components for recycle back to Step 1}, and a product
                                                    15

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             isolation device (214). The thin film evaporator or thin film polymerization/
             devolatilization device comprises Step 3 in the process description discussed
             above. The fluid transfer unit is shown as a pump.
             [00069]      FIG. 2 is a cutaway of the thin film polymerization/ devolatilization
             device. The angled rectangular piece (250) is the optionally heated surface where
             the molten polymer flows. The incoming molten polymer stream(252) flows
             onto the surface and is shown as an ellipse(258)of flowing polymer flowing to the
             exit of the device at (254). The volatiles are removed at (256).
             [00070]       The internals of the thin film evaporator or thin film polymerization/
             devolatilization device can be in different configurations, but must be configured
             to assure that the polymer fluid flows in a thin film through the device. This is to
             facilitate volatilization of the water that is in the polymer fluid or is formed by a
             condensation reaction. For instance, the surface may be slanted at an angle
             relative to the straight sides of the device. The surface may be separately heated
             such that the surface is 0 to 40 'C hotter than the polymer fluid. With this heated
             surface it can be heated to up to 300 'C, as much as 40 'C higher than the overall
             temperature of the device.
             [00071]      The thickness of the polymer fluid flowing along the thin film part of
             the device is less than 1 cm, optionally less than 0.5 cm or alternately less than
             0.25 cm.
             [00072]      The thin film evaporator and thin film polymerization/devolatilization
             device are similar in function. Other similar devices similar in function should be
             considered to have the same function as these. Descriptively, these include
             wiped film evaporators, short path evaporator, a shell and tube heat exchanger
             and the like. For each of these evaporator configuration a distributor may be used
             to assure distribution of the thin film. The limitation that they must be able to
             operate at the conditions described above.
             [00073]      Optionally, the catalyst may be removed from the molten polymer.
             Removing catalyst may be accomplished just prior to, during, or after the thin
             film evaporator/thin film polymerization/devolatilization device. The catalyst
             may be filtered from the molten polymer by using a filtration system similar to a
             screen pack. Since the molten polymer is flowing around the thin film
             evaporator/thin film polymerization/devolatilization device, a filtration system
             can be added.
                                                     16

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             [00074]     To facilitate the catalyst removal a neutralization or chelation
             chemical may be added. Candidate compounds include phosphites, anhydrides,
             poly carboxylic acids, polyamines, hydrazides, EDTA( and similar compounds)
             and the like. These neutralization and/or chelation compounds can be insoluble
             in the molten polymer leading to facile filtration. Poly carboxylic acids include
             poly acrylic acids and poly methacrylic acids. The latter can be in a both a
             random, block, and graft polymer configuration. The amines include ethylene
             diamine, oligomers of ethylene diamine and other similar polyamines such as
             methyl bis -3-amino, propane.
             [00075]     Another option to remove the catalyst includes adding solid materials
             to the polymer melt. Examples of added materials include silica, alumina,
             aluminosilicates, clays, diatomaceous earth, polymers and like solid materials .
             Each of these can be optionally functionalized to react/bind with the catalyst.
             When the catalyst binds/bonds to these structures it can be filtered from the
             polymer.
             [00076]     The (co)polymer product is isolated when the desired
             conversion/physical properties are achieved. The product can be conveyed to a
             product collection /isolation area. Optionally, a final devolatilization step may be
             performed just prior to product isolation. Types of equipment to isolate the
             (co)polymer product can include rotoform pastillation system and similar systems
             in which the product is cooled to obtain a product in a useable form.
             [00077]     Assessment when the product can be sent to product isolation can
             include taking samples and measuring important parameters such as molecular
             weight and polydispersity. Optionally, a continuous measurement can be used
             such as including an in-line viscometer which can measure intrinsic viscosity.
             [00078]     The thin film evaporator and thin film polymerization/devolatilization
             device can be made of any normally used metals for chemical processing
             equipment. Since the hydroxy-carboxylic acids can be corrosive the thin film
             evaporator may be clad or coated with corrosive resistant metals such as
             tantalum, alloys such as HastelloyTM, a trademarked alloy from Haynes
             International, and the like. It can also be coated with inert high temperature
             polymeric coatings such as TeflonTM from DuPont, Wilmington De. The
             corrosivity of the hydroxy-carboxylic acid system may not be surprising since
             the pKa of lactic acid is more than 0.8 less than acetic acid. Also, water
                                                     17

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             undoubtedly hydrates the acid and the acid end of the polymer. When those
             waters of hydration are removed the acidity can be much higher, since it is not
             leveled by the waters of hydration.
             [00079]      FIG. 9a is a schematic of a pilot-scale polymerization system to
             polymerize hydroxy carboxylic acid. The thin film evaporator or thin film
             polymerization/ devolatilization device (900), a heated riser (902), a cooled
             condenser (904) for condensing water and other volatile components, a collection
             vessel (906) a fluid transfer unit (908) to recycle the polymer fluid shown as a
             pump. The connecting tubing is not shown for clarity. The output of the pump
             (916) is connected to inlet (910), the device output (912) is connected to the inlet
             of the pump (914). The product isolation section is not shown. Internal in the
             thin film polymerization/ devolatilization device is a slanted surface. The
             polymer fluid is flowed to the inlet with the configured such that the polymer
             fluid flows onto the slanted surface. This slanted surface may be separately
             heated as described above.
             [00080]      FIG. 9b is a cutaway of the thin film polymerization/ devolatilization
             device. The angled rectangular piece (950) is the optionally heated surface where
             the molten polymer flows. The incoming molten polymer stream (952) flows
             onto the surface and is shown as a trapezoid (956) of flowing polymer flowing to
             the exit of the device at (954).
             [00081]      An alternate thin film evaporator/devolatilization can be a shell and
             tube heat exchanger. A schematic is shown in FIG. 10. The shell (1002) and
             tube (1008) with only one of the tubes labeled. The molten polymer flow (1006)
             is depicted is entering the left side of each tube, but could also a distributor could
             be present that would distribute the polymer flow to the inside surface of the
             tubes to assure the thin film thickness of less than 1 cm is obtained. The
             collection of the polymer flow is at 1004.
             [00082]      To facilitate removal of water a stripping gas may be included in the
             system especially toward the exit of the thin film evaporator or thin film
             polymerization devolatilization device. The capacity of the vacuum must
             accommodate the use of stripping gas.
             [00083]      Additives can be added just prior, during or after the thin film
             evaporator or thin film polymerization/ devolatilization device. These additives
             can include but are not limited to polymers for blending, reactive polymers,
                                                    18

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             reactive monomers, other condensation monomers, catalyst stabilization agents,
             anti-oxidants peroxides for crosslinking polymer chains. These additives are
             more fully described below.
             BIOMASS PROCESSING TO PRODUCE HYDROXY-CARBOXYLIC
             ACIDS
             [00084]     The hydroxy-carboxylic acid is prepared from biomass. For example,
             lignocellulosic materials include different combinations of cellulose,
             hemicellulose and lignin. Cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose. Hemicellulose
             is any of several heteropolymers, such as xylan, glucuronoxylan, arabinoxylans
             and xyloglucan. The primary sugar monomer present (e.g., present in the largest
             concentration) in hemicellulose is xylose, although other monomers such as
             mannose, galactose, rhamnose, arabinose and glucose are present. Although all
             lignins show variation in their composition, they have been described as an
             amorphous dendritic network polymer of phenyl propene units. The amounts of
             cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin in a specific biomass material depend on the
             source of the biomass material. For example, wood-derived biomass can be about
             38-49% cellulose, 7-26% hemicellulose and 23-34% lignin depending on the
             type. Grasses typically are 33-38% cellulose, 24-32% hemicellulose and 17-22%
             lignin. Clearly lignocellulosic biomass constitutes a large class of substrates.
             [00085]     Enzymes and biomass-destroying organisms that break down biomass,
             such as the cellulose, hemicellulose and/or the lignin portions of the biomass as
             described above, contain or manufacture various cellulolytic enzymes
             (cellulases), ligninases, xylanases, hemicellulases or various small molecule
             biomass-destroying metabolites. A cellulosic substrate is initially hydrolyzed by
             endoglucanases at random locations producing oligomeric intermediates. These
             intermediates are then substrates for exo-splitting glucanases such as
             cellobiohydrolase to produce cellobiose from the ends of the cellulose polymer.
             Cellobiose is a water-soluble 1,4-linked dimer of glucose. Finally, cellobiase
             cleaves cellobiose to yield glucose. In the case of hemicellulose, a xylanase (e.g.,
             hemicellulase) acts on this biopolymer and releases xylose as one of the possible
             products.
             [00086]     FIG. 3 is a flow diagram showing processes for manufacturing is a
             flow diagram showing processes for manufacturing hydroxyl-carboxylic acid s
                                                   19

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             from a feedstock (e.g., cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials). In an initial step
             (310) the method includes optionally mechanically treating a cellulosic and/or
             lignocellulosic feedstock, for example, to comminute/size reduce the feedstock.
             Before and/or after this treatment, the feedstock can be treated with another
             physical treatment (312), for example, irradiation, heat treatment, sonication,
             steam explosion, oxidation, pyrolysis or combinations of these, to reduce or
             further reduce its recalcitrance. A sugar solution e.g., including glucose and/or
             xylose, is formed by saccharifying the feedstock (314). The saccharification can
             be, for example, accomplished efficiently by the addition of one or more
             enzymes, e.g., cellulases and/or xylanases (311) and/or one or more acids. A
             product or several products can be derived from the sugar solution, for example,
             by fermentation to a hydroxyl-carboxylic acid (316). Following fermentation, the
             fermentation product (e.g., or products, or a subset of the fermentation products)
             can be purified or they can be further processed, for example, polymerized and/or
             isolated (324). Optionally, the sugar solution is a mixture of sugars and the
             organism selectively ferments only one of the sugars. The fermentation of only
             one of the sugars in a mixture can be advantageous as described in International
             App. No. PCT/US2014/021813 filed March 07, 2014, the entire disclosure of
             which is incorporated herein by reference. If desired, the steps of measuring
             lignin content (318) and setting or adjusting process parameters based on this
             measurement (320) can be performed at various stages of the process, for
             example, as described in U.S. Patent 8,415,122, issued April 9, 2013 the entire
             disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Optionally, enzymes
             (e.g., in addition to cellulases and xylanases) can be added in step (114), for
             example, a glucose isomerase can be used to isomerize glucose to fructose. Some
             relevant uses of isomerase are discussed in International Application No.
             PCT/US12/71093, filed on December 20, 2012, published as WO 2013/096700
             the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
             [00087]      In some embodiments the liquids after saccharification and/or
             fermentation can be treated to remove solids, for example, by centrifugation,
             filtration, screening, or rotary vacuum filtration. For example, some methods and
             equipment that can be used during or after saccharification are disclosed in U.S.
             Application Serial No. 13/932,814 filed on July 1, 2013, published as US
             2014/0004573; and International App. No. PCT/US2014/021584, filed on March
                                                   20

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             7, 2014, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. In
             addition other separation techniques can be used on the liquids, for example, to
             remove ions and de-colorize. For example, chromatography, simulated moving
             bed chromatograph and electrodialysis can be used to purify any of the solutions
             and or suspensions described herein. Some of these methods are discussed in
             International App. No. PCT/US2014/021638, filed on March 7, 2014, and
             International App. No. PCT/US2014/021815, filed on March 7, 2014, the entire
             disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Solids that are
             removed during the processing can be utilized for energy co-generation, for
             example, as discussed in International App. No. PCT/US2014/021634, filed on
             March 7, 2014, the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.
             Optionally, the sugars released from biomass as describe in FIG. 3, for example,
             glucose, xylose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, mannose, galactose, arabinose,
             homodimers and heterodimers of these (e.g., cellobiose, sucrose), trimers,
             oligomers and mixtures of these, can be fermented to hydroxyl-carboxylic acid s
             such as alpha, beta or gamma hydroxyl acids (e.g., lactic acid). In some
             embodiments the saccharification and fermentation are done simultaneously, for
             example, using the thermophilic organism such as Baccillus coagulans MXL-9 as
             described by S.L. Walton in J. Ind. Microbiol. Biotechnol. (2012) pg. 823-830.
             [00088]        Hydroxy-carboxylic acids that can be produced by the methods,
             systems, and equipment described herein include, for example, of alpha, beta,
             gamma and delta hydroxy-carboxylic acids. FIG. 8 shows the chemical structures
             of some hydroxyl acids. That is, if there is only one hydroxyl group it can be at
             any of the alpha, beta, gamma or delta carbon atoms in the carbon chain. The
             carbon chain may be a straight chain, branched or cyclic system. The hydroxy
             carboxylic acid may also include fatty acids of carbon chain lengths of 10 to 22
             with the hydroxy substituent at the alpha, beta, gamma, or delta carbon.
             [00089]        The hydroxy-carboxylic acids include those with multiple hydroxy
             substituents, or in alternative description a poly hydroxy substituted carboxylic
             acid. Such hydroxy-carboxylic acids can be poly-hydroxy-carboxylic acid, e.g.
             di-, tri-, tetra-, penta-, hexa- hepta- and octa-hydroxy substituted carboxylic acid.
             The carbon chain of the carboxylic acid may be straight chained, branched,
             cyclic, or alicyclic. Examples of this are tartaric acid and its isomers, dihydroxy
                                                      21

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             3-methylpentanoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid, gluconic acid, glucuronic
             acid and the like.
             [00090]      For example, glycolic acid, lactic acid (e.g., D, L or mixtures of D and
             L), malic acid (e.g., D, L or mixtures of D and L), citric acid, tartaric acid (e.g.,
             D, L or mixtures of D and L), carmine, cyclobutyrol, 3-dehydroquinic acid,
             diethyl tartrate, 2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylpentanoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxymandelic
             acid, glyceric acid, homocitric acid, homoisocitric acid, beta-hydroxy beta
             methylbutyric acid, 4-hydroxy-4-methylpentanoic acid, hydroxybutyric acid, 2
             hydroxybutyric acid, beta-hydroxybutyric acid, gamma-hydroxybutyric acid,
             alpha-hydroxyglutaric acid, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, 3-hydroxyisobutyric
             acid, 3-hydroxypentanoic acid, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, hydroxypyruvic acid,
             gamma-hydroxyvaleric acid, isocitric acid, isopropylmalic acid, kynurenic acid,
             mandelic acid, mevalonic acid, monatin, myriocin, pamoic acid, pantoic acid,
             prephenic acid, shikimic acid, tartronic acid, threonic acid, tropic acid,
             vanillylmandelic acid, xanthurenic acid and mixtures of these. For those
             hydroxyl acids listed all of the stereo isomers are included in the list. For
             instance, tartaric acid includes, the D, L, and meso isomers and mixtures thereof.
             PREPARATION OF HYDROXY-CARBOXYLIC ACID
             [00091]      Organisms can utilize a variety of metabolic pathways to convert the
             sugars to hydroxy-carboxylic acid, and some organisms selectively only can use
             specific pathways. A well-studied example is lactic acid. Some organisms are
             homofermentative while others are heterofermentative. For example, some
             pathways are described in Journal of Biotechnology 156 (2011) 286-301. The
             pathway typically utilized by organisms fermenting glucose is the glycolytic
             pathway. Five carbon sugars, such as xylose, can utilize the heterofermentative
             phosphoketolase (PK) pathway. The PK pathway converts two of the 5 carbons in
             xylose to acetic acid on the remaining 3 to lactic acid (through pyruvate).
             Another possible pathway for five carbon sugars is the pentose phosphate
             (PP)/glycolytic pathway that only produces lactic acid.
             [00092]      Several organisms can be utilized to ferment the biomass derived
             sugars to lactic acid. The organisms can be, for example, lactic acid bacteria and
             fungi. Some specific examples include Rhizopus arrhizus,Rhizopus oryzae, (e.g.,
             NRRL- 395, ATCC 52311, NRRL 395, CBS 147.22, CBS 128.08, CBS 539.80,
                                                    22

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             CBS 328.47, CBS 127.08, CBS 321.35, CBS 396.95, CBS 112.07, CBS 127.08,
             CBS 264.28), Enterococcusfaecalis(e.g. RKYl), Lactobacillus rhamnosus (e.g.
             ATCC 10863. ATCC 7469, CECT-288, NRRL B-445), Lactobacillus helveticus
             (e.g. ATCC 15009, R2 11), Lactobacillus bulgaricus (e.g. NRRL B-548, ATCC
             8001, PTCC 1332), Lactobacilluscasei (e.g. NRRL B-441), Lactobacillus
             plantarum (e.g. ATCC 21028, TISTR No. 543, NCIMB 8826), Lactobacillus
             pentosus (e.g. ATCC 8041), Lactobacillus amylophilus (e.g. GV6), Lactobacillus
             delbrueckii (e.g. NCIMB 8130, TISTR No. 326, Uc-3, NRRL-B445, IFO 3202,
             ATCC 9649), Lactococcus lactis ssp. lactis (e.g. IFO 12007), Lactobacillus
             paracaseiNo. 8., Lactobacillusamylovorus (ATCC 33620), Lactobacillussp.
             (e.g. RKY2), Lactobacilluscorynformis ssp. torquens (e.g. ATCC 25600, B
             4390), Rhizopus sp. (e     MK-96-1196), Enterococcus casseliflavus, Lactococcus
             lactis (TISTR No. 1401), Lactobacilluscasei (TISTR No. 390), Lactobacillus
             thermophiles, Bacillus coagulans (e.g., MXL-9, 36D1, P4-102B), Enterococcus
             mundtii (e.g., QU 25), Lactobacillusdelbrueckii, Acremonium cellulose,
             Lactobacillusbifermentans, Corynebacterium glutamicum, L acetotolerans,L.
             acidifarinae,L. acidipiscis,L. acidophilus,L. agilis, L. algidus, L. alimentarius,
             L. amylolyticus, L. amylophilus, L. amylotrophicus, L. amylovorus, L. animalis,
             L. antri,L. apodemi, L. aviarius,L. bifermentans, L. brevis (e.g., B-4527), L.
             buchneri, L. camelliae, L. casei, L. catenaformis,L. ceti, L. coleohominis, L.
             collinoides, L. composti, L. concavus, L. coryniformis, L. crispatus, L. crustorum,
             L. curvatus, L. delbrueckii subsp. Delbrieckii (e.g., NRRL B-763, ATCC 9649),
             L. delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus,L. delbrueckii subsp. lactis (e.g., B-4525), L.
             dextrinicus, L. diolivorans,L. equi, L. equigenerosi,L. farraginis,L. farciminis,
             L. fermentum, L. fornicalis, L. fructivorans,L. frumenti, L. fuchuensis, L.
             gallinarum,L. gasseri,L. gastricus,L. ghanensis,L. graminis, L. hammesii, L.
             hamsteri, L. harbinensis,L. hayakitensis, L. helveticus, L. hilgardii,L.
             homohiochii, L. iners, L. ingluviei, L. intestinalis,L. jensenii, L. johnsonii, L.
             kalixensis, L. kefiranofaciens, L. kefiri, L. kimchii, L. kitasatonis, L. kunkeei, L.
             leichmannii, L. lindneri, L. malefermentans, L. mali, L. manihotivorans,L.
             mindensis, L. mucosae, L. murinus, L. nagelii, L. namurensis, L. nantensis, L.
             oligofermentans, L. oris, L. panis, L. pantheris,L. parabrevis,L. parabuchneri,
             L. paracollinoides,L. parafarraginis,L. parakefiri,L. paralimentarius,L.
             paraplantarum,L. pentosus, L. perolens, L. plantarum( e.g., ATCC 8014), L.
                                                   23

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             pontis, L. psittaci, L. rennini, L. reuteri,L. rhamnosus,L. rimae, L. rogosae, L.
             rossiae, L. ruminis, L. saerimneri, L. sakei, L. salivarius,L. sanfranciscensis,L.
             satsumensis,L. secaliphilus,L. sharpeae,L. siliginis, L. spicheri, L. suebicus, L.
             thailandensis,L. ultunensis, L. vaccinostercus, L. vaginalis, L. versmoldensis, L.
             vini, L. vitulinus, L. zeae, L. zymae, and Pediococcuspentosaceus (ATCC
             25745).
             [00093]      Alternatively, the microorganism used for converting sugars to
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids, including lactic acid, Lactobacilluscasei,
             Lactobacillus rhamnosus,Lactobacillus delbrueckii subspecies delbrueckii,
             Lactobacillusplantarum, Lactobacilluscoryniformis subspecies torquens,
             Lactobacilluspentosus, Lactobacillus brevis, Pediococcuspentosaceus,Rhizopus
             oryzae, Enterococcusfaecalis,Lactobacillushelveticus, Lactobacillus
             bulgaricus,Lactobacilluscasei, lactobacillusamylophilus and mixtures thereof
             [00094]      Using the methods, equipment and systems described herein, either D
             or L isomers of lactic acid at an optical purity of near 100% (e.g., at least about
             80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about
             99%) can be produced. Optionally mixtures of the isomers can be produced in
             any ratio, for example, from 0% optical purity of any isomer up to 100% optical
             purity of any isomer. for example, the species Lactobacillus delbrueckii (NRRL
             B445) is reported to produce a mixture of D and L isomers, Lactobacillus
             rhamnosus (CECT-28) is reported to produce the L isomer while Lactobacillus
             delbrueckii (IF 3202) is reported to produce the D isomer (Wang et al. in
             Bioresource Technology, June, 2010). As a further example, organisms that
             predominantly produce the L(+)-isomer are L. amylophilus, L. bavaricus,L.
             casei, L. maltaromicus and L. salivarius,while L. delbrueckii, L. jensenii and L.
             acidophilus produce the D(-)-isomer or mixtures of both.
             [00095]      Genetically modified organisms can also be utilized. For example,
             genetically modified organisms (e.g., lactobacillus,Escherichiacoli) that are
             modified to express either L-Lactate dehydrogenase or D-lactate dehydrogenase
             to produce more L-Lactic acid or D-Lactic acid respectively. In additions some
             yeasts and Escherichiacoli have been genetically modified to produce lactic acid
             from glucose and/or xylose.
             [00096]      Co-cultures of organisms, for example, chosen from organisms as
             describe herein, can be used in the fermentations of sugars to hydroxy-carboxylic
                                                    24

WO 2014/176509                                                                  PCT/US2014/035469
             acid in any combination. For example, two or more bacteria, yeasts and/or fungi
             can be combined with one or more sugars (e.g., glucose and/or xylose) where the
             organisms ferment the sugars together, selectively and/or sequentially.
             Optionally, one organism is added first and the fermentation proceed for a time,
             for example, until it stops fermenting one or more of the sugars, and then a
             second organism can be added to further ferment the same sugar or ferment a
             different sugar. Co-cultures can also be utilized, for example, to tune in a
             desirable racemic mixture of D and L lactic acid by combining a D-fermenting
             and L-fermenting organism in an appropriate ratio to form the targeted racemic
             mixture.
             [00097]      In some embodiments, fermentations utilizing Lactobacillus is
             preferred. For example, the fermentation of biomass derived glucose by
             Lactobacilluscan be very efficient (e.g., fast, selective and with high
             conversion). In other embodiments the production of lactic acid using
             filamentous fungi is preferred. For example, Rhizopus species can ferment
             glucose aerobically to lactic acid. In addition, some fungi (e.g. R. oryzae and R.
             arrhizus) produce amylases so that the direct fermentation of starches can
             accomplished without adding external amylases. Finally some fungi (e.g., R.
             oryzae) can ferment xylose as well as glucose where most lactobacillusare not
             efficient in fermenting pentose sugars.
             [00098]      In some embodiments some bio-additives (e.g., media components)
             can be added during the fermentation. for example, bio-additives that can be
             utilized include yeast extract, rice bran, wheat bran, corn steep liquor, black strap
             molasses, casein hydrolyzate, vegetable extracts, corn steep solid, ram horn
             waste, peptides, peptone (e.g., bacto-peptone, polypeptone), pharmamedia, flower
             (e.g., wheat flour, soybean flour, cottonseed flour), malt extract, beef extract,
             tryptone, K2 HPO 4 , KH 2PO 4 , Na 2 HPO 4 , NaH 2 PO 4 , (NH4) 2 PO 4 , NH 4 0H, NH 4 NO,
             urea. ammonium citrate, nitrilotriacetic acid, MnSO 4 '5H 20, MgSO4-7H 20,
             CaCl 2 .2H 20, FeSO 4 -7H 2 0, B-vitamins (e.g., thiamine, riboflavin, niacin,
             niacinamide, pantothenic acid, pyridoxine, pyridoxal, pyridoxamine, pyridoxine
             hydrochloride, biotin, folic acid), amino acids, sodium-L-glutamate, Na 2EDTA,
             sodium acetate, ZnSO 4 7H 20, ammonium molybdate tetrahydrate, CuCl 2 , CoCl 2
             and CaCO 3. Addition of protease can also be beneficial during the fermentation.
             Optionally surfactants such as Tween 80 and antibiotics such as Chloramphenicol
                                                    25

WO 2014/176509                                                            PCT/US2014/035469
             can also be beneficial. Additional carbon sources, for example, glucose, xylose
             and other sugars. Antifoaming compounds such as Antifoam 204 can also be
             utilized.
             [00099]      In some embodiments the fermentation can take from about 8 hours to
             several days. For example, some batch fermentations can take from about 1 to
             about 20 days (e.g., about 1-10 days, about 3-6 days, about 8 hours to 48 hours,
             about 8 hours to 24 hours).
             [000100] In some embodiments the temperature during the fermentation is
             controlled. for example, the temperature can be controlled between about 20     0 C
             and 50   0 C (e.g., between about 25 and 40  0 C, between about 30 and 40  0 C,
             between about 35 and 40 C). In some case thermophilic organisms are utilized
             that operate efficiently above about 50 C, for example, between about 50 C
                                                      0                                    0
             and 100 'C (e.g., between about 50-90    0 C, between about 50 to 80 C, between
                                                                                    0
             about 50 to 70      C).
             [000101] In some embodiments the pH is controlled, for example, by the
             addition of an acid or a base. The pH can be optionally controlled to be close to
             neutral (e.g., between about 4-8, between about 5-7, between about 5-6). Acids,
             for example, can be protic acids such as sulfuric, phosphoric, nitric,
             hydrochloride and acetic acids. Bases, for example, can include metal hydroxides
             (e.g., sodium and potassium hydroxide), ammonium hydroxide, and calcium
             carbonate. Phosphate and other buffers can also be utilized.
             [000102] Fermentation methods include, for example, batch, fed batch, repeated
             batch or continuous reactors. Often batch methods can produce higher
             concentrations of lactic acids, while continuous methods can lead to higher
             productivities.
             [000103] Fed batch methods can include adding media components and
             substrate (e.g., sugars from biomass) as they are depleted. Optionally products,
             intermediates, side products and/or waste products can be removed as they are
             produced. In addition solvent (e.g., water) can be added or removed to maintain
             the optimal amount for the fermentation.
             [000104] Options include cell-recycling. For example, using a hollow fiber
             membrane to separate cells from media components and products after
             fermentation is complete. The cells can then be re-utilized in repeated batches. In
             other optional methods the cells can be supported, for example, as described in
                                                   26

WO 2014/176509                                                                PCT/US2014/035469
             US Application serial No. 13/293,97 1, filed on Nov. 10, 2011 and US patent No.
             8,377,668, issued Feb 19, 2013 the entire disclosures of which are herein
             incorporated by reference.
             [000105]      The fermentation broth can be neutralized using calcium carbonate or
             calcium hydroxide which can form calcium lactate. Calcium lactate is soluble in
             water (e.g., about 7.9 g/100mL). The calcium lactate broth can then be filtered to
             remove cells and other insoluble materials. In addition the broth can be treated
             with a decolorizing agent. for example, the broth can be filtered through carbon.
             The broth is then concentrated, e.g., by evaporation of the water optionally under
             vacuum and/or mild heating, and can be crystallized or precipitated.
             Acidification, for example, with sulfuric acid, releases the lactic acid back into
             solution which can be separated (e.g., filtered) from the insoluble calcium salts,
             e.g., calcium sulfate. Addition of calcium carbonate during the fermentation can
             also serve as a way to reduce product inhibition since the calcium lactate is not
             inhibitory or causes less product inhibition.
             [000106]      Optionally, reactive distillation can also be used to purify D-lactic
             acid and/or L-lactic acid. For example, methylation of D-lactic acid and/or L
             lactic acid provides the methyl ester which can be distillated to pure ester which
             can then be hydrolyzed to the acid and methanol that can be recycled.
             Esterification to other esters can also be used to facilitate the separation. For
             example, reactions with alcohols to the ethyl, propyl, butyl, hexyl, octyl or even
             esters with more than eight carbons can be formed and then extracted in a solvent
             or distilled.
             [000107]      Other alternative D-lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid separation
             technologies include adsorption, for example, on activated carbon,
             polyvinylpyridine, zeolite molecular sieves and ion exchange resins such as basic
             resins. Other methods include ultrafiltration and electrodialysis.
             [000108]      Precipitation or crystallization of calcium lactate by the addition of
             organic solvents is another method for purification. For example, alcohols (e.g.,
             ethanol, propanol, butanol, hexanol), ketones (e.g., acetone) can be utilized for
             this purpose.
             [000109]      Similar methods can be utilized for the preparation of other hydroxy
             carboxylic acids. For example, the fermentative methods and procedures can be
             applicable for any of the hydroxy-carboxylic acids described herein.
                                                      27

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             POLYMERIZATION OF HYDROXY-CARBOYLIC ACID
             [000110]     Hydroxy-carboxylic acid prepared as described herein can undergo
             ester condensation to form dimers (e.g., linear and cyclic), trimers, oligomers and
             polymers. When the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid is polylactic acid (PLA) it is
             therefore a polyester of condensed lactic acid. PLA can be further processed (e.g.,
             grafted, treated, or copolymerized to form side chains including ionizable
             groups). Both D, L isomers of PLA can form polymers and/or they can be
             copolymerized. The properties of the polymer depend on the amounts of the D
             and L lactic acid incorporated in the structure, as will be discussed further on.
             [000111]    The polymers of hydroxy-carboxylic acids are based on polyester
             methods. The balance between the hydroxy and the carboxylic acid component
             preferably are close to equimolar. For instance, the mole ratio limit of hydroxy/
             carboxylic groups can be in the range of 0.9 to 1.1, alternatively, 0.95 to 1.05,
             optionally, 0.98 to 1.02 or further 0.99 to 1.01. If a hydroxy carboxylic acid has
             an unequal amount of hydroxy substituents relative to the carboxylic acid group
             like malic acid, than the appropriate amount of extra diol can be included to
             obtain a high molecular weight polymer, if desired.
             [000112]    The polymerization of the PLA is done by the methods described
             above.
             [000113]    One method for production of high molecular weight PLA is by
             coupling PLA, for example, made as described above, using chain coupling
             agents. for example, hydroxyl-terminated PLA can be synthesized by the
             condensation of D-lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid in the presence of small
             amounts of multifunctional hydroxyl compounds such as , ethylene glycol,
             propylene glycol, 1,3-propanediol, 1,2-cyclohexanediol, 2-butene-1,4-diol,
             glycerol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,6-hexanediol. Alternatively, carboxyl-terminated PLA
             can be achieved by the condensation of D-lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid in the
             presence of small amounts of multifunctional carboxylic acids such as maleic,
             succinic, adipic, itaconic and malonic acid. Aromatic diacids are also candidates.
             [000114]    These diols and diacids are additives and can be added to the melt
             stream just prior to flowing the melt stream to the thin film evaporator or the thin
             film polymerization/devolatilization device. In order to preserve the
             condensation parameters of polymer the diol and diacid need to be nearly
                                                   28

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             equimolar. If the alcohol to acid mole ratio departs too much from one, then
             terminated polymers and/or oligomers will be obtained. Thus, the mole ratio of
             these diols and diacids is from 0.95 to 1.05 or optionally 0.975 to 1.025. Also, to
             preserve the polymer properties attributed to the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid
             the dilution of the monomers with the diols and diacids should be minimal. So
             optionally, the mole ratio of the sum of the aliphatic or aromatic dicarboxylic
             acid and the aliphatic or aromatic diol to the hydroxy-carboxylic acid monomer
             of the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid is 0.1 or less. Alternatively the limitation is
             0.05 or less.
             [000115]    The timely addition of oligomers of dialcohols or alpha, omega
             diacids can lead to a block polymer. This is especially true if the dialcohols and
             diacids are added utilizing the thin film evaporator or the thin film
             polymerization/devolatilization device. Examples of oligomers of dialcohols
             include low molecular weight polyethylene glycol, 1,2- and 1,3 propanediol, 1,4
             butanediol and the like.
             [000116]    Inclusion of small quantities of trisubstituted alcohols and triacids can
             also lead to beneficial crosslinking of the poly hydroxy carboxylic acid.
             Amounts of less than 5 wt. %, alternately less than 2.5 wt. % or optionally less
             than 1 wt. % may be used to produce a minimally branched polymer.
             [000117]    Other additives include chain extending agents that can have
             heterofunctional groups that couple either on the carboxylic acid end group of the
             PLA or the hydroxyl end group, for example, 6-hydroxycapric acid, mandelic
             acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-acetoxybenzoic acid.
             [000118]    Esterification promotion agents can also be combined with D-lactic
             acid and/or L-lactic acid to increase the molecular weight of PLA. For example,
             ester promotion agents include phosgene, diphosgene, triphosgene
             dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and carbonyldiimidazole. Some potentially undesirable
             side products can be produced by this method adding purification steps to the
             process. After final purification, the product can be very clean, free of catalysts
             and low molecular weight impurities.
             [000119]    The polymer molecular weights can also be increase by the addition of
             chain extending agents such as (di)isocyanates, acid chlorides, anhydrides,
             epoxides, thiirane and oxazoline and orthoester.
                                                    29

WO 2014/176509                                                                 PCT/US2014/035469
             [000120]    Catalysts and promoters that can optionally be used include Protonic
             acids such as H3 PO 4 , H2 SO 4 , methane sulfonic acid, p-toluene sulfonic acid,
             Nafion-H' ( sulfonic acid supported/bonded to a polymer that optionally may
             have a tetrafluorethylene backbone), metal catalysts, for example, include Mg,
             Al, Ti, Zn, Sn. Some metal oxides that can optionally catalyze the reaction
             include TiO 2 , ZnO, GeO 2 , ZrO 2 , SnO, Sn0 2 , Sb 2 0 3. Metal halides, for example,
             that can be beneficial include ZnCl 2 , SnCl 2 , SnC14. Other metal containing
             catalysts that can optionally be used include Mn(AcO) 2, Fe 2(LA) 3, Co(AcO) 2,
             Ni(AcO) 2 , Cu(OA) 2, Zn(LA) 2, Y(OA) 3 , Al(i-PrO)3, Ti(BuO) 4 , TiO(acac) 2,
             (Bu) 2SnO. Combinations and mixtures of the above catalysts can also be used.
             For example, two or more catalysts can be added at one time or sequentially as
             the polymerization progresses. The catalysts can also be removed, replenished
             and or regenerated during the course of the polymerization are for repeated
             polymerizations. Some preferred combinations include protonic acids and one of
             the metal containing catalysts, for example, SnCl 2/p-toluenesulfonic acid. These
             catalysts are normally added between steps 2 and 3 of the polymerization process
             described above.
             [000121]    During the step 1 of the polymerization process, for example,
             especially at the beginning of the polymerization when the concentration of lactic
             acid is high and water is being formed at a rapid rate, the lactic acid/water
             azeotropic mixture can be condensed and made to pass through molecular sieves
             to dehydrate the lactic acid which is then returned to the reaction vessel.
             [000122]    Copolymers can be produced by adding monomers other than lactic
             acid during the azeotropic condensation reaction. For example, any of the
             multifunctional hydroxyl, carboxylic compounds or the heterofunctional
             compounds that can be used as coupling agents for low molecular weight PLA
             can also be used as co-monomers in the azeotropic condensation reaction.
             [000123]    In addition to homopolymer, copolymerization with other cyclic
             monomers and non-cyclic monomers such as glycolide, caprolactone,
             valerolactone, dioxypenone, trimethyl carbonate, 1,4- benzodioxepin-2,5-(3H)
             dione glycosalicylide, 1,4- benzodioxepin-2,5-(3H, 3-methyl)-dione
             Lactosalicylide, dibenzo-1,5 dioxacin-6-12-dione disalicylide, morpholine-2,5
             dione, 1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione glycolide, oxepane-2-one e-caprolactone, 1,3
             dioxane-2-one trimethylene carconate, 2,2-dimethyltrimethylene carbonate, 1,5
                                                     30

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             dioxepane-2-one, 1,4-dioxane-2-one p-dioxanone, gamma-butyrolactone, beta
             butyrolactone, beta-me-delta-valerolactone, 1,4-dioxane-2,3-dione ethylene
             oxalate, 3-[benzyloxycarbonyl methyl]-1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione, ethylene oxide,
             propylene oxide, 5,5'(oxepane-2-one), 2,4,7,9-tetraoxa-spiro[5,5]undecane-3,8
             dione Spiro-bid-dimethylene caronate can produce co-polymers. Copolymers can
             also be produced by adding monomers such as the multifunctional hydroxyl,
             carboxylic compounds or the heterofunctional compounds that can be used as
             coupling agents for low molecular weight PLA.
             [000124]     Copolymers may also be formed with other hydroxy-carboxylic acids.
             The comonomers include 3-hydroxyvalerate, 4-hydroxybutyrate which are
             gamma and delta hydroxy-carboxylic acids, respectively. Another monomer
             which can be copolymerized is 3-hydroxybutyrate (beta substituted). These
             monomers can be copolymerized or blended as polymers with a polylactic acid
             polymer to form a polymer blend.
             [000125]     In addition to chemical method, D-lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid can
             be polymerized by LA-polymerizing enzymes and organisms.
             POLY HYDROXYL-CARBOXYLIC STEROCHEMISTRY
             [000126]     Mechanical and thermal properties of the homopolymer of hydroxyl
             carboxylic acid are largely determined by the molecular weight and
             stereochemical composition of the backbone. For lactic acid the stereochemical
             composition of the backbone can be controlled by the choice and ratios of
             monomers; D-Lactic acid, L-Lactic acid or alternatively D-Lactide, L-Lactide or
             meso-Lactide. This stereochemical control allows the formation of random or
             block stereocopolymers. The molecular weight of the polymers can be controlled,
             for example, as discussed above. The ability to control the stereochemical
             architecture allows, for example, precise control over the speed and degree of
             crystallinity, the mechanical properties, and the melting point and glass transition
             temperatures of the material.
             [000127]     The degree of crystallinity of PLA influences the hydrolytic stability
             of the polymer, and therefore, the biodegradability of the polymer. For example,
             highly crystalline PLA can take from months to years to degrade, while
             amorphous samples can be degraded in a few weeks to a few months. This
             behavior is due in part to the impermeability of the crystalline regions of PLA.
                                                    31

WO 2014/176509                                                                  PCT/US2014/035469
              Table 1 shows some of the thermal properties of some PLA of similarly treated
              samples. The information in Table 1 comes from Polylactic Acid: PLA
              Biopolymer Technology and Applications, Lee Tin Sin, A. R. Rahmat, W. A.
              Rahman; Dec 31, 2012. The percent crystallinity can be calculated by using data
              form the table and applying the equation.
                                                .    AH'I -..AH',)
                                                  =
                                                 %L         --      400
                                                           9n
              [000128]        Where AZHm is the melting enthalpy in J/g, AzHe is the crystallization
              enthalpy in J/g and 93 is the crystallization enthalpy of a totally crystalline PLA
              sample in J/g.
              [000129] As can be calculated from the data in the table, the crystallinity is
              directly proportional to the molecular weight of the pure L or pure D
              stereopolymer. The DL steroeoisomer (e.g., an atactic polymer) is amorphous.
              Table 1: Thermal properties of PLA
              1l                         15.6       VS      5.
        r)L            -1.34.
              L           .        O     67.9      1599     5803             483
        DL              7        L       41                   -      -
            D-~                          6'
                                         66                 64.6     S"0     :51
              [000130] Calculated crystallinities are in order top to bottom: 8.2%, 0%, 11.3%,
              0%, 15.7%, 13.8%, 14.0% and 25%.
              [000131] The thermal treatment of samples, for example, rates of melting,
              recrystallization, and annealing history, can in part determine the amount of
              crystallization. Therefore, comparisons of the thermal, chemical and mechanical
              properties of PLS polymers should generally be most meaningful for polymers
              with a similar thermal history.
              [000132] The pure L-PLA or D-PLA has a higher tensile strength and low
              elongation and consequently has a higher modulus than DL-PLA. Values for L
              PLA vary greatly depending on how the material is made e.g., tensile strengths of
              30 to almost 400 MPa, and tensile modulus between 1.7 to about 4.5 GPa.
                                                        32

WO 2014/176509                                                                PCT/US2014/035469
             POLY HYDROXY-CARBOXYLIC ACID COPOLYMERS,
             CROSSLINKING AND GRAFTING
             [000133]     Variation of the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids by the formation of
             copolymers as discussed above also has a very large influence on the properties,
             for example, by disrupting and decreasing the crystallinity and modulating the
             glass transition temperatures. For example, polymers with increased flexibility,
             improved hydrophilicity, better degradability, better biocompatibility, better
             tensile strengths, improved elongations properties can be produced.
             [000134]     The thin film polymerization/devolatilization device can be the
             process where these co-monomers can be added to the melt polymer.
             [000135]     The co-monomers to produce copolymers with poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acids. In most cases, the improvements are correlated with a decrease
             in the glass transition temperature. A few monomers can increase the glass
             transition temperature of poly hydroxyl-carboxylic acid. For example, lactones of
             salicylic acids can have homopolymer glass transition temperatures between
             about 70 and 1100 C and be copolymerize with the hydroxyl-carboxylic acid.
             [000136]     Morpholinediones, which are half alpha-hydroxy-carboxylic acids and
             half alpha-amino acids co-polymerize with lactide to give high molecular weight
             random co-polymers with lower glass transition temperatures (e.g., following the
             Flory-Fox equation). For example, morpholinediones made up of glycine and
             lactic acid (6-methyl-2,5-morpholinedione) when copolymerized with lactide can
             give a polymer with glass transition temperatures of 109 and 71       0 C for a 50 and
             75 mol% lactic acid respectively in the polymer. Morpholinediones have been
             synthesized using glycolic acid or lactic acid and most of the alpha amino acids
             (e.g., glycine, alanine, aspartic acid, lysine, cysteine, valine and leucine). In
             addition to lowering the glass transition temperature and improving mechanical
             properties, the use of functional amino acids in the synthesis of morpholinediones
             is an effective way of incorporating functional pendent groups into the polymer.
             [000137]     As an example, copolymers of glycolide and lactide can be useful as
             biocompatible surgical sutures due to increased flexibility and hydrophilicity.
             The higher melting point of 228 0 C and Tg of 37       0 C for polyglycolic acid can
             produce a range of amorphous co-polymers with lower glass transition
             temperatures than poly lactic acid. Another copolymerization example is
             copolymerization with e-caprolactone which can yield tough polymers with
                                                    33

WO 2014/176509                                                           PCT/US2014/035469
             properties ranging from ridged plastics to elastomeric rubbers and with tensile
             strengths ranging from 80 to 7000 psi, and elongations over 400%. Co-polymers
             of beta-methyl-gamma-valerolactone have been reported to produce rubber-like
             properties. Co-polymers with polyethers such as poly(ethylene oxide),
             poly(propylene oxide) and poly(tetramethylene oxide) are biodegradable,
             biocompatible and flexible polymers.
             [000138] Some additional useful monomers that can be copolymerized with
             lactide include 1,4-benzodioxepin-2,3(H)-dione glycosalicylide; 1.3
             benzodioxepin-2,5-(3H, 3-methyl)-dione Lactosalicylide; dibenzo-1,5-dioxacin
             6,12-dione disalicylide; morpholine-2,5-dione, 1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione, glycolide;
             oxepane-2-one trimethylene carbonate; 2,2-dimethyltrimethylene carbonate; 1,5
             dioxepane-2-one; 1,4-dioxane-2-one p-dioxanone; gamma-butyrolactone; beta
             butyrolactone; beta-methyl-delta-valerolactone; beta-methyl-gamma
             valerolactone; 1,4-dioxane-2,3-dione ethylene oxalate;
             3 [(benzyloxyacarbonyl)methyl] -1,4-dioxane-2,5 -dione; ethylene oxide;
             propylene oxide, 5,5'-(oxepane-2-one) and 2,4,7,9-tetraoxa-spiro[5,5] undecane
             3,8-dione Spiro-bis-dimethylene caronate.
             [000139]     Hydroxy-carboxylic acids polymers and co-polymers can be modified
             by crosslinking additives. Crosslinking can affect the thermal and rheological
             properties without necessarily deteriorating the mechanical properties. For
             example, 0.2 mol % 5,5'-bis(oxepane-2-one)(bis- r -caprolactone)) and 0.1-0.2
             mol% spiro-bis-dimethylene carbonate cross linking. Free radical hydrogen
             abstraction reactions and subsequent polymer radical recombination is an
             effective way of inducing crosslinks into a polymer. Radicals can be generated,
             for example, by high energy electron beam and other irradiation (e.g., between
             about 0.01 Mrad and 15 Mrad, e.g., between about 0.01-5 Mrad, between about
             0.1-5 Mrad, between about 1-5 Mrad). For example, irradiation methods and
             equipment are described in detail below.
             [000140] Alternatively or in addition, peroxide additives, such as organic
             peroxides are effective radical producing and cross linking agents. For example,
             peroxides that can be used include hydrogen peroxide, dicumyl peroxide; benzoyl
             peroxide; 2,5-Dimethyl-2,5-di(tert-butylperoxy)hexane; tert-butylperoxy 2
             ethylhexyl carbonate; tert-amyl peroxy-2-ethylhexanoate; 1,1-di(tert
             amylperoxy)cyclohexane; tert-amyl peroxyneodecanoate; tert-amyl
                                                  34

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             peroxybenzoate; tert-amylperoxy 2-ethylhexyl carbonate; tert-amyl
             peroxyacetate; 2,5-dimethyl-2,5-di(2-ethylhexanoylperoxy)hexane; tert-butyl
             peroxy-2-ethylhexanoate; 1,1-di(tert-butylperoxy)cyclohexane; tert-butyl
             peroxyneodecanoate; tert-butyl peroxyneoheptanoate; tert-butyl
             peroxydiethylacetate; 1,1-di(tert-butylperoxy)-3,3,5-trimethylcyclohexane; 3,6,9
             triethyl-3,6,9-trimethyl-1,4,7-triperoxonane; di(3,5,5-trimethylhexanoyl)
             peroxide; tert-butyl peroxyisobutyrate; tert-butyl peroxy-3,5,5
             trimethylhexanoate; di-tert-butyl peroxide; tert-butylperoxy isopropyl carbonate;
             tert-butyl peroxybenzoate; 2,2-di(tert-butylperoxy)butane; di(2-ethylhexyl)
             peroxydicarbonate; di(2-ethylhexyl) peroxydicarbonate; tert-butyl peroxyacetate;
             tert-butyl cumyl peroxide; tert-amylhydroperoxide; 1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl
             hydroperoxide, and mixtures of these. The effective amounts can vary, for
             example, depending on the peroxide, crosslinking reaction conditions and the
             desired properties (e.g., amount of crosslinking). For example, crosslinking
             agents can be added from between about 0.01- 10 wt.% ( e.g., about 0.1-10
             wt.%, about 0.01-5wt.%, about 0.1-lwt.%, about 1-8 wt.%, about 4-6 wt.%). For
             example, peroxides such as 5.25 wt.% dicumyl peroxide and 0.1% benzoyl
             peroxide are effective radical producing and cross linking agents for poly
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids and poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids derivatives. The
             peroxide crosslinking agents can be added to polymers as solids, liquids or
             solutions, for example, in water or organic solvents such as mineral spirits. In
             addition radical stabilizers can be utilized.
             [000141]     Crosslinking can also be effectively accomplished by the
             incorporation of unsaturation in the polymer chain either by: initiation with
             unsaturated alcohols such as hydroxyethyl methacrylate or 2-butene-1,4-diol; the
             post reaction with unsaturated anhydrides such as maleic anhydride to transform
             the hydroxyl chain end; or copolymerization with unsaturated epoxides such as
             glycidyl methacrylate.
             [000142]     In addition to cross linking, grafting of functional groups and
             polymers to a hydroxy-carboxylic acid polymer or co-polymer is an effective
             method of modifying the polymer properties. For example, radicals can be
             formed as described above and a monomer, functionalizing polymer or small
             molecule. For example, irradiation or treatment with a peroxide and then
                                                    35

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             quenching with a functional group containing an unsaturated bond can effectively
             functionalize the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid backbone.
             [000143]    The thin film polymerization/devolatilization device can be the
             process where these crosslinking and/or the grafting component may be added to
             the melt polymer.
             POLY HYDROXY-CARBOXYLIC ACIDS BLENDING
             [000144]    Poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids can be blended with other polymers as
             miscible or immiscible compositions. For immiscible blends the composition can
             be one with the minor component (e.g., below about 30 wt. %) as small (e.g.,
             micron or sub-micron) domains in the major component. When one component is
             about 30 to 70 wt. % the blend forms a co-continuous morphology (e.g., lamellar,
             hexagon phases or amorphous continuous phases). The polymers to be blended
             with the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids may be random, linear copolymer,
             diblock, graft, star, and branched polymers.
             [000145]    Blending can be accomplished by melt mixing above the glass
             transition temperature of the amorphous polymer components. The thin film
             evaporator and thin film polymerization/devolatilization device can be used for
             blending the polymers. Also, screw extruders (e.g., single screw extruders, co
             rotating twin screw extruders, counter rotating twin screw extruders) can be
             useful for this. For hydroxy-carboxylic acid polymers and co-polymers
             temperatures below about 200     0 C can be used to avoid thermal degradation (e.g.
             below about 180      C).
             [000146]    Polyethylene oxide (PEO) and polypropylene oxide (PPO) can be
             blended with poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids. Lower molecular weight glycols
             (300-1000 Mw) are miscible with poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids while PPO
             becomes immiscible at higher molecular weight. These polymers, especially
             PEO, can be used to increase the water transmission and bio-degradation rate of
             poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids. They can also be used as polymeric plasticizers to
             lower the modulus and increase flexibility of poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids.
             High molecular weight PEG (20,000) is miscible in poly hydroxy-carboxylic
             acids up to about 50%, but above that level the PEG crystallizes, reducing the
             ductility of the blend.
                                                   36

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             [000147]    Polyvinyl acetate (PVA) is miscible with poly hydroxy-carboxylic
             acids in most concentrations. For PVA and poly lactic acid blends only one Tg is
             observed at all blend ratios, with a constant decrease to about 37 0 C at 100%
             PVA. Low levels of PVA (5-10%) increase the tensile strength and % elongation
             of poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids while significantly reducing the rate of weight
             loss during bio-degradation.
             [000148]    Blends of poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids and polyolefins
             (polypropylene and polyethylene) result in incompatible systems with poor
             physical properties due to the poor interfacial compatibility and high interfacial
             energy. However, the interfacial energy can be lowered, for example, by the
             addition of third component compatibilizers, such as glycidyl methacrylate
             grafted polyethylene. (irradiation would probably work) Polystyrene and high
             impact polystyrene resins are also non-polar and blends with poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acids are generally not compatible.
             [000149]    Poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids and acetals can be blended making
             compositions with useful properties. For example, these blends have good, high
             transparency.
             [000150]    In general, poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids are miscible with
             polymethyl methacrylate and many other acrylates and copolymers of
             (meth)acrylates. Drawn films of polymethyl methacrylate/poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acids blends can be transparent and have high elongation.
             [000151]    Polycarbonate can be combined with poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids
             up to about a 50 wt. % composition of polycarbonate. The compositions have
             high heat resistance, flame resistance and toughness and have applications, for
             example, in consumer electronics such as laptops. About 50 wt. % polycarbonate,
             the processing temperatures approach the degradation temperature of poly
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids.
             [000152]    Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) can be blended with poly
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids although the polymers are not miscible. This
             combination less brittle material than poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids and provides
             a way to toughen poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids.
             [000153]    Poly(propylene carbonate) can be blended with poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acids providing a biodegradable composite since both polymers are
             biodegradable.
                                                   37

WO 2014/176509                                                                PCT/US2014/035469
             [000154]     Poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids can also be blended with poly(butylene
             succinate). Blends can impart thermal stability and impact strength to the poly
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids.
             [000155]     PEG, poly propylene glycol, poly(vinyl acetate), anhydrides (e.g.,
             maleic anhydride) and fatty acid esters have been added as plasticizers and/or
             compatibilizers.
             [000156]     Blending can also be accomplished with the application of irradiation,
             including irradiation and quenching. For example, irradiation or irradiation and
             quenching as described herein applied to biomass can be applied to the irradiation
             of poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids and poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids copolymers
             for any purpose, for example, before, after and/or during blending. This treatment
             can aid in the processing, for example, making the polymers more compatible
             and/or making/breaking bonds within the polymer and/or blended additive (e.g.,
             polymer, plasticizer). For example, between about 0.1 Mrad and 150 Mrad
             followed by quenching of the radicals by the addition of fluids or gases (e.g.,
             oxygen, nitrous oxide, ammonia, liquids), using pressure, heat, and/or the
             addition of radical scavengers. Quenching of biomass that has been irradiated is
             described in U.S. Pat. No. 8,083,906 to Medoff, the entire disclosure of which is
             incorporate herein by reference, and the equipment and processes describe therein
             can be applied to poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids and poly hydroxy-carboxylic
             acids derivatives. Irradiation and extruding or conveying of the poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acids or poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids copolymers can also be
             utilized, for example, as described for the treatment of biomass in US Application
             Serial No. 13/099,151 filed on May 2, 2011 published as US Application US
             2011-0262985 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
             POLY HYDROXY-CARBOXYLIC ACID COMPOSITES
             [000157]     Poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids polymers, co-polymers and blends can
             be combined with synthetic and/or natural materials. For example, poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acids and any poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids derivative (e.g., poly
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids copolymers, poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids blends,
             grated poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids, cross-linked poly hydroxy-carboxylic
             acids) can be combined with synthetic and natural fibers. For example, protein,
             starch, cellulose, plant fibers (e.g., abaca, leaf, skin, bark, kenaf fibers), inorganic
                                                     38

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             fillers, flax, talc, glass, mica, saponite and carbon fibers. This can provide a
             material with, for example, improved mechanical properties (e.g., toughness,
             harness, strength) and improved barrier properties (e.g., lower permeability to
             water and/or gasses).
             [000158]      Nano composites can also be made by dispersing inorganic or organic
             nanoparticles into either a thermoplastic or thermoset polymer. Nanoparticles can
             be spherical, polyhedral, two dimensional nanofibers or disc-like nanoparticles.
             For example, colloidal or microcrystalline silica, alumina or metal oxides (e.g.,
             TiO 2 ); carbon nanotubes; clay platelets.
             [000159]      Composites can be prepared similarly to polymer blends, for example,
             utilizing screw extrusion and/or injection molding. Irradiation as described herein
             can also be applied to the composites, during, after or before their formation. For
             example, irradiation of the polymer and combination with the synthetic and/or
             natural materials, or irradiation of the synthetic and/or natural materials and
             combination with the polymer, or irradiation of both the polymer and synthetic
             and/or natural material and then combining, or irradiating the composite after it
             has been combined, with or without further processing.
             POLY HYDROXY-CARBOXYLIC ACIDS WITH PLASTICIZERS AND
             ELASTOMERS
             [000160]      In addition to the blends previously discussed, poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acids and poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids derivatives can be combined
             with plasticizers.
             [000161]       For example, as described in J.Apple. Polym. Sci. 66: 1507-1513,
             1997, poly lactic acid can be blended with monomeric and oligomeric plasticizers
             in order to enhance its flexibility and thereby overcome its inherent brittleness.
             Monomeric plasticizers, such as tributyl citrate, and diethyl bishydroxymethyl
             malonate, DBM, can drastically decreased the T of PLA. Increasing the
             molecular weight of the plasticizers by synthesizing oligoesters and
             oligoesteramides can result in blends with T depressions slightly smaller than
             with the monomeric plasticizers. The compatibility with poly hydroxy-carboxylic
             acids can be dependent on the molecular weight of the oligomers and on the
             presence of polar groups (e.g., amide groups, hydroxyl groups, ketones, esters)
             that can interact with the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids chains. The materials can
                                                      39

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             retain a high flexibility and morphological stability over long periods of time, for
             example, when formed into films.
             [000162]     Citrate esters can also be used as plasticizers with poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acids. Films can be extruded, for example, using a single or twin
             screw extruder with plasticizer contents (citrate esters or others described herein)
             of between about 1 and 40 wt. % (e.g., about 5-30 wt. %, about 5-25 wt. %, about
             5-15 wt. %). Plasticizers such as citrate esters can be effective in reducing the
             glass transition temperature and improving the elongation at break. The
             plasticizing efficiency can be higher for the intermediate-molecular-weight
             plasticizers. The addition of plasticizers can modulate the enzymatic degradation
             of poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids. For example, lower-molecular-weight citrates
             can increase the enzymatic degradation rate of poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids and
             the higher-molecular-weight citrates can decreased the degradation rate as
             compared with that of unplasticized poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids.
             [000163]     Preparation of poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids /elastomer blends can
             also be prepared by melt blending technique, for example, as described in the
             Journalof Elastomers and Plastics,January 3, 2013; poly hydroxy-carboxylic
             acids and biodegradable elastomer can be melt blended and molded in an
             injection molding machine. The melting temperature can decrease as the amount
             of elastomer increases. Additionally, the presence of elastomer can modulate the
             crystallinity of poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids, for example, increasing the
             crystallinity by between about 1 and 30 % (e.g., between about 1 to 20 %,
             between about 5 and 15%). The complex viscosity and storage modulus of poly
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids melt can decrease upon addition of elastomer. The
             elongation at break can increase as the content of elastomer increased while
             Young's modulus and tensile strength often decrease due to the addition of
             elastomer.
             [000164]     It has been observed that the cold crystallization temperature of the
             blends decreased as the weight fraction of elastomer increased as well as the
             onset temperature of cold crystallization also shifted to lower temperature. For
             example, as reported in the Journal of Polymer Research, February 2012,
             19:9818. In non-isothermal crystallization experiments, the crystallinity of poly
             lactic acid increased with a decrease in the heating and cooling rate. The melt
             crystallization of for example, poly lactic acid appeared in the low cooling rate
                                                    40

WO 2014/176509                                                                PCT/US2014/035469
             (1, 5 and 7.5   0 C/min). The presence of small amounts of elastomer can also
             increase the crystallinity of poly lactic acid. The DSC thermogram at ramp of
             10 'C/min showed the maximum crystallinity of poly lactic acid is 36.95% with
             20 wt. %elastomer contents in blends. In isothermal crystallization, the cold
             crystallization rate increased with increasing crystallization temperature in the
             blends. The Avrami analysis showed that the cold crystallization was in two
             stages process and it was clearly seen at low temperature. The Avrami exponent
             (n) at first stage was varying from 1.59 to 2 which described a one-dimensional
             crystallization growth with homogeneous nucleation, whereas at second stage
             was varying from 2.09 to 2.71 which described the transitional mechanism to
             three dimensional crystallization growth with heterogeneous nucleation
             mechanism. The equilibrium melting point of poly lactic acid was also evaluated
             at 176 'C.
             [000165]      Some examples of elastomers that can be combined with PLA
             include: Elastomer NPEL001, Polyurethane elastomers (5-10%), Functionalized
             polyolefin elastomers, Blendex@ (e.g., 415, 360, 338), PARALOIDTM KM 334,
             BTA 753, EXL 3691A, 2314, Ecoflex@ Supersoft Silicone Bionolle@ 3001,
             Pelleethane@ 2102-75A, Kraton@ FG 1901X, Hytrel@ 3078, and mixtures of
             these. Mixtures with any other elastomer, for example, as described herein can
             also be used.
             [000166]      Some examples of plasticizers that can be combined with poly
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids include: Triacetin, Glycerol triacetate, Tributyl citrate,
             Polyethylene glycol, GRINDSTED@ SOFT-N-SAFE (Acetic acid ester of
             monoglycerides) made from fully hydrogenated castor oil and combinations of
             these. Mixtures with other plasticizers, for example, as described herein can also
             be used.
             [000167]      The main characteristic of elastomer materials is the high elongation
             and flexibility or elasticity of these materials, against its breaking or cracking.
             [000168]      Depending on the distribution and degree of the chemical bonds of the
             polymers, elastomeric materials can have properties or characteristics similar to
             thermosets or thermoplastics, so elastomeric materials can be classified into:
             Thermoset Elastomers (e.g., do not melt when heated) and Thermoplastic
             Elastomers (e.g., melt when heated). Some properties of elastomer materials:
             cannot melt, before melting they pass into a gaseous state; swell in the presence
                                                    41

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             of certain solvents; are generally insoluble; are flexible and elastic; lower creep
             resistance than the thermoplastic materials.
             [000169]     Examples of applications of elastomer materials describe herein are:
             possible substitutes or replacements for natural rubber(e.g., material used in the
             manufacture of gaskets, shoe heels) ; possible substitutes or replacements for
             polyurethanes (e.g., for use in the textile industry for the manufacture of elastic
             clothing, for use as foam, and for use in making wheels); possible substitutes or
             replacements for polybutadiene (e.g., elastomer material used on the wheels or
             tires of vehicles); possible substitutes or replacements for neoprene (e.g., used for
             the manufacture of wetsuits , wire insulation, industrial belts); possible
             substitutes or replacements for silicone (e.g., pacifiers, medical prostheses,
             lubricants). In addition, the materials described herein can be used as substitutes
             for polyurethane and silicon adhesives.
             FLAVORS, FRAGRANCES AND COLORS
             [000170]    Any of the products and/or intermediates described herein, for
             example, poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids, poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids
             derivatives (e.g., poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids copolymers, poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acids composites, cross-linked poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids, grafted
             poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids, poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids blends or any
             other poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids containing material prepared as described
             herein) can also be combined with flavors, fragrances colors and/or mixtures of
             these. For example, any one or more of (optionally along with flavors, fragrances
             and/or colors) sugars, organic acids, fuels, polyols, such as sugar alcohols,
             biomass, fibers and composites, hydroxyl-carboxylic acids, lactic acid, poly
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids, poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids derivatives can be
             combined with (e.g., formulated, mixed or reacted) or used to make other
             products. For example, one or more such product can be used to make soaps,
             detergents, candies, drinks (e.g., cola, wine, beer, liquors such as gin or vodka,
             sports drinks, coffees, teas), pharmaceuticals, adhesives, sheets (e.g., woven,
             none woven, filters, tissues) and/or composites (e.g., boards). For example, one
             or more such products can be combined with herbs, flowers, petals, spices,
             vitamins, potpourri, or candles. For example, the formulated, mixed or reacted
             combinations can have flavors/fragrances of grapefruit, orange, apple, raspberry,
                                                    42

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             banana, lettuce, celery, cinnamon, vanilla, peppermint, mint, onion, garlic,
             pepper, saffron, ginger, milk, wine, beer, tea, lean beef, fish, clams, olive oil,
             coconut fat, pork fat, butter fat, beef bouillon, legume, potatoes, marmalade, ham,
             coffee and cheeses.
             [000171] Flavors, fragrances and colors can be added in any amount, such as
             between about 0.01 wt.% to about 30 wt.%, e.g., between about 0.05 to about 10,
             between about 0.1 to about 5, or between about 0.25 wt.% to about 2.5 wt.%.
             These can be formulated, mixed and or reacted (e.g., with any one of more
             product or intermediate described herein) by any means and in any order or
             sequence (e.g., agitated, mixed, emulsified, gelled, infused, heated, sonicated,
             and/or suspended). Fillers, binders, emulsifier, antioxidants can also be utilized,
             for example, protein gels, starches and silica.
             [000172]    The flavors, fragrances and colors can be natural and/or synthetic
             materials. These materials can be one or more of a compound, a composition or
             mixtures of these (e.g., a formulated or natural composition of several
             compounds). Optionally, the flavors, fragrances, antioxidants and colors can be
             derived biologically, for example, from a fermentation process (e.g., fermentation
             of saccharified materials as described herein). Alternatively, or additionally these
             flavors, fragrances and colors can be harvested from a whole organism (e.g.,
             plant, fungus, animal, bacteria or yeast) or a part of an organism. The organism
             can be collected and or extracted to provide color, flavors, fragrances and/or
             antioxidant by any means including utilizing the methods, systems and equipment
             described herein, hot water extraction, chemical extraction (e.g., solvent or
             reactive extraction including acids and bases), mechanical extraction (e.g.,
             pressing, comminuting, filtering), utilizing an enzyme, utilizing a bacteria such as
             to break down a starting material, and combinations of these methods. The
             compounds can be derived by a chemical reaction, for example, the combination
             of a sugar (e.g., as produced as described herein) with an amino acid (Maillard
             reaction). The flavor, fragrance, antioxidant and/or color can be an intermediate
             and or product produced by the methods, equipment or systems described herein,
             for example, and ester and a lignin derived product.
             [000173]    Some examples of flavor, fragrances or colors are polyphenols.
             Polyphenols are pigments responsible for the red, purple and blue colors of many
             fruits, vegetables, cereal grains, and flowers. Polyphenols also can have
                                                    43

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             antioxidant properties and often have a bitter taste. The antioxidant properties
             make these important preservatives. On class of polyphenols are the flavonoids,
             such as anthrocyanins, flavonols, flavan-3-ols, flavones, flavanones and
             flavonoids. Other phenolic compounds that can be used include phenolic acids
             and their esters, such as chlorogenic acid and polymeric tannins.
             [000174]    Inorganic compounds, minerals or organic compounds can be used,
             for example, titanium dioxide, cadmium yellow (E.g., CdS), cadmium orange
             (e.g., CdS with some Se), alizarin crimson (e.g., synthetic or non-synthetic rose
             madder), ultramarine (e.g., synthetic ultramarine, natural ultramarine, synthetic
             ultramarine violet ), cobalt blue, cobalt yellow, cobalt green, viridian (e.g.,
             hydrated chromium(III)oxide), chalcophylite, conichalcite, cornubite, cornwallite
             and liroconite.
             [000175]    Some flavors and fragrances that can be utilized include ACALEA
             TBHQ, ACET C-6, ALLYL AMYL GLYCOLATE, ALPHA TERPINEOL,
             AMBRETTOLIDE, AMBRINOL 95, ANDRANE, APHERMATE,
             APPLELIDE, BACDANOL@, BERGAMAL, BETA IONONE EPOXIDE,
             BETA NAPHTHYL ISO-BUTYL ETHER, BICYCLONONALACTONE,
             BORNAFIX@, CANTHOXAL, CASHMERAN@, CASHMERAN@ VELVET,
             CASSIFFIX@, CEDRAFIX, CEDRAMBER@, CEDRYL ACETATE,
             CELESTOLIDE, CINNAMALVA, CITRAL DIMETHYL ACETATE,
             CITROLATETM, CITRONELLOL 700, CITRONELLOL 950, CITRONELLOL
             COEUR, CITRONELLYL ACETATE, CITRONELLYL ACETATE PURE,
             CITRONELLYL FORMATE, CLARYCET, CLONAL, CONIFERAN,
             CONIFERAN PURE, CORTEX ALDEHYDE 50% PEOMOSA, CYCLABUTE,
             CYCLACET@, CYCLAPROP@, CYCLEMAXTM, CYCLOHEXYL ETHYL
             ACETATE, DAMASCOL, DELTA DAMASCONE, DIHYDRO CYCLACET,
             DIHYDRO MYRCENOL, DIHYDRO TERPINEOL, DIHYDRO TERPINYL
             ACETATE, DIMETHYL CYCLORMOL, DIMETHYL OCTANOL PQ,
             DIMYRCETOL, DIOLA, DIPENTENE, DULCINYL@ RECRYSTALLIZED,
             ETHYL-3-PHENYL GLYCIDATE, FLEURAMONE, FLEURANIL, FLORAL
             SUPER, FLORALOZONE, FLORIFFOL, FRAISTONE, FRUCTONE,
             GALAXOLIDE@ 50, GALAXOLIDE@ 50 BB, GALAXOLIDE@ 50 IPM,
             GALAXOLIDE@ UNDILUTED, GALBASCONE, GERALDEHYDE,
             GERANIOL 5020, GERANIOL 600 TYPE, GERANIOL 950, GERANIOL 980
                                                   44

WO 2014/176509                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             (PURE), GERANIOL CFT COEUR, GERANIOL COEUR, GERANYL
             ACETATE COEUR, GERANYL ACETATE, PURE, GERANYL FORMATE,
             GRISALVA, GUAIYL ACETATE, HELIONALTM, HERBAC,
             HERBALIMETM, HEXADECANOLIDE, HEXALON, HEXENYL
             SALICYLATE CIS 3-, HYACINTH BODY, HYACINTH BODY NO. 3,
             HYDRATROPIC ALDEHYDE.DMA, HYDROXYOL, INDOLAROME,
             INTRELEVEN ALDEHYDE, INTRELEVEN ALDEHYDE SPECIAL,
             IONONE ALPHA, IONONE BETA, ISO CYCLO CITRAL, ISO CYCLO
             GERANIOL, ISO E SUPER@, ISOBUTYL QUINOLINE, JASMAL,,
             JESSEMAL@, KHARISMAL@, KHARISMAL@ SUPER, KHUSINIL,
             KOAVONE@, KOHINOOL@, LIFFAROMETM, LIMOXAL, LINDENOLTM,
             LYRAL@, LYRAME SUPER, MANDARIN ALD 10% TRI ETH, CITR,
             MARITIMA, MCK CHINESE, MEIJIFFTM, MELAFLEUR, MELOZONE,
             METHYL ANTHRANILATE, METHYL IONONE ALPHA EXTRA, METHYL
             IONONE GAMMA A, METHYL IONONE GAMMA COEUR, METHYL
             IONONE GAMMA PURE, METHYL LAVENDER KETONE,
             MONTAVERDI@, MUGUESIA, MUGUET ALDEHYDE 50, MUSK Z4,
             MYRAC ALDEHYDE, MYRCENYL ACETATE, NECTARATETM, NEROL
             900, NERYL ACETATE, OCIMENE, OCTACETAL, ORANGE FLOWER
             ETHER, ORIVONE,, ORRINIFF 25%, OXASPIRANE, OZOFLEUR,
             PAMPLEFLEUR@, PEOMOSA, PHENOXANOL@, PICONIA,
             PRECYCLEMONE B, PRENYL ACETATE, PRISMANTOL, RESEDA BODY,
             ROSALVA, ROSAMUSK, SANJINOL, SANTALIFFTM', SYVERTAL,
             TERPINEOL,TERPINOLENE 20, TERPINOLENE 90 PQ, TERPINOLENE
             RECT., TERPINYL ACETATE, TERPINYL ACETATE JAX, TETRAHYDRO,
             MUGUOL@, TETRAHYDRO MYRCENOL, TETRAMERAN,
             TIMBERSILKTM, TOBACAROL, TRIMOFIX@ 0 TT, TRIPLAL@,
             TRISAMBER@, VANORIS, VERDOXTM, VERDOXTM HC, VERTENEX@,
             VERTENEX@ HC, VERTOFIX@ COEUR, VERTOLIFF, VERTOLIFF ISO,
             VIOLIFF, VIVALDIE, ZENOLIDE, ABS INDIA 75 PCT MIGLYOL, ABS
             MOROCCO 50 PCT DPG, ABS MOROCCO 50 PCT TEC, ABSOLUTE
             FRENCH, ABSOLUTE INDIA, ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB, ABSOLUTE
             MOROCCO, CONCENTRATE PG, TINCTURE 20 PCT, AMBERGRIS,
             AMBRETTE ABSOLUTE, AMBRETTE SEED OIL, ARMOISE OIL 70 PCT
                                         45

WO 2014/176509                                            PCT/US2014/035469
             THUYONE, BASIL ABSOLUTE GRAND VERT, BASIL GRAND VERT ABS
             MD, BASIL OIL GRAND VERT, BASIL OIL VERVEINA, BASIL OIL
             VIETNAM, BAY OIL TERPENELESS, BEESWAX ABS N G, BEESWAX
             ABSOLUTE, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM 50
             PCT DPG, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM 50 PCT PG, BENZOIN RESINOID
             SIAM 70.5 PCT TEC, BLACKCURRANT BUD ABS 65 PCT PG,
             BLACKCURRANT BUD ABS MD 37 PCT TEC, BLACKCURRANT BUD
             ABS MIGLYOL, BLACKCURRANT BUD ABSOLUTE BURGUNDY, BOIS
             DE ROSE OIL, BRAN ABSOLUTE, BRAN RESINOID, BROOM ABSOLUTE
             ITALY, CARDAMOM GUATEMALA C02 EXTRACT, CARDAMOM OIL
             GUATEMALA, CARDAMOM OIL INDIA, CARROT HEART, CASSIE
             ABSOLUTE EGYPT, CASSIE ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT IPM, CASTOREUM
             ABS 90 PCT TEC, CASTOREUM ABS C 50 PCT MIGLYOL, CASTOREUM
             ABSOLUTE, CASTOREUM RESINOID, CASTOREUM RESINOID 50 PCT
             DPG, CEDROL CEDRENE, CEDRUS ATLANTICA OIL REDIST,
             CHAMOMILE OIL ROMAN, CHAMOMILE OIL WILD, CHAMOMILE OIL
             WILD LOW LIMONENE, CINNAMON BARK OIL CEYLAN, CISTE
             ABSOLUTE, CISTE ABSOLUTE COLORLESS, CITRONELLA OIL ASIA
             IRON FREE, CIVET ABS 75 PCT PG, CIVET ABSOLUTE, CIVET
             TINCTURE 10 PCT, CLARY SAGE ABS FRENCH DECOL, CLARY SAGE
             ABSOLUTE FRENCH, CLARY SAGE C'LESS 50 PCT PG, CLARY SAGE
             OIL FRENCH, COPAIBA BALSAM, COPAIBA BALSAM OIL, CORIANDER
             SEED OIL, CYPRESS OIL, CYPRESS OIL ORGANIC, DAVANA OIL,
             GALBANOL, GALBANUM ABSOLUTE COLORLESS, GALBANUM OIL,
             GALBANUM RESINOID, GALBANUM RESINOID 50 PCT DPG,
             GALBANUM RESINOID HERCOLYN BHT, GALBANUM RESINOID TEC
             BHT, GENTIANE ABSOLUTE MD 20 PCT BB, GENTIANE CONCRETE,
             GERANIUM ABS EGYPT MD, GERANIUM ABSOLUTE EGYPT,
             GERANIUM OIL CHINA, GERANIUM OIL EGYPT, GINGER OIL 624,
             GINGER OIL RECTIFIED SOLUBLE, GUAIACWOOD HEART, HAY ABS
             MD 50 PCT BB, HAY ABSOLUTE, HAY ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT TEC,
             HEALINGWOOD, HYSSOP OIL ORGANIC, IMMORTELLE ABS YUGO
             MD 50 PCT TEC, IMMORTELLE ABSOLUTE SPAIN, IMMORTELLE
             ABSOLUTE YUGO, JASMIN ABS INDIA MD, JASMIN ABSOLUTE
                                         46

WO 2014/176509                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             EGYPT, JASMIN ABSOLUTE INDIA, ASMIN ABSOLUTE MOROCCO,
             JASMIN ABSOLUTE SAMBAC, JONQUILLE ABS MD 20 PCT BB,
             JONQUILLE ABSOLUTE France, JUNIPER BERRY OIL FLG, JUNIPER
             BERRY OIL RECTIFIED SOLUBLE, LABDANUM RESINOID 50 PCT TEC,
             LABDANUM RESINOID BB, LABDANUM RESINOID MD, LABDANUM
             RESINOID MD 50 PCT BB, LAVANDIN ABSOLUTE H, LAVANDIN
             ABSOLUTE MD, LAVANDIN OIL ABRIAL ORGANIC, LAVANDIN OIL
             GROSSO ORGANIC, LAVANDIN OIL SUPER, LAVENDER ABSOLUTE H,
             LAVENDER ABSOLUTE MD, LAVENDER OIL COUMARIN FREE,
             LAVENDER OIL COUMARIN FREE ORGANIC, LAVENDER OIL
             MAILLETTE ORGANIC, LAVENDER OIL MT, MACE ABSOLUTE BB,
             MAGNOLIA FLOWER OIL LOW METHYL EUGENOL, MAGNOLIA
             FLOWER OIL, MAGNOLIA FLOWER OIL MD, MAGNOLIA LEAF OIL,
             MANDARIN OIL MD, MANDARIN OIL MD BHT, MATE ABSOLUTE BB,
             MOSS TREE ABSOLUTE MD TEX IFRA 43, MOSS-OAK ABS MD TEC
             IFRA 43, MOSS-OAK ABSOLUTE IFRA 43, MOSS-TREE ABSOLUTE MD
             IPM IFRA 43, MYRRH RESINOID BB, MYRRH RESINOID MD, MYRRH
             RESINOID TEC, MYRTLE OIL IRON FREE, MYRTLE OIL TUNISIA
             RECTIFIED, NARCISSE ABS MD 20 PCT BB, NARCISSE ABSOLUTE
             FRENCH, NEROLI OIL TUNISIA, NUTMEG OIL TERPENELESS, OEILLET
             ABSOLUTE, OLIBANUM RESINOID, OLIBANUM RESINOID BB,
             OLIBANUM RESINOID DPG, OLIBANUM RESINOID EXTRA 50 PCT DPG,
             OLIBANUM RESINOID MD, OLIBANUM RESINOID MD 50 PCT DPG,
             OLIBANUM RESINOID TEC, OPOPONAX RESINOID TEC, ORANGE
             BIGARADE OIL MD BHT, ORANGE BIGARADE OIL MD SCFC, ORANGE
             FLOWER ABSOLUTE TUNISIA, ORANGE FLOWER WATER ABSOLUTE
             TUNISIA, ORANGE LEAF ABSOLUTE, ORANGE LEAF WATER
             ABSOLUTE TUNISIA, ORRIS ABSOLUTE ITALY, ORRIS CONCRETE 15
             PCT IRONE, ORRIS CONCRETE 8 PCT IRONE, ORRIS NATURAL 15 PCT
             IRONE 4095C, ORRIS NATURAL 8 PCT IRONE 2942C, ORRIS RESINOID,
             OSMANTHUS ABSOLUTE, OSMANTHUS ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB,
             PATCHOULI HEART N-3, PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA, PATCHOULI
             OIL INDONESIA IRON FREE, PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA MD,
             PATCHOULI OIL REDIST, PENNYROYAL HEART, PEPPERMINT
                                        47

WO 2014/176509                                                            PCT/US2014/035469
             ABSOLUTE MD, PETITGRAIN BIGARADE OIL TUNISIA, PETITGRAIN
             CITRONNIER OIL, PETITGRAIN OIL PARAGUAY TERPENELESS,
             PETITGRAIN OIL TERPENELESS STAB, PIMENTO BERRY OIL,
             PIMENTO LEAF OIL, RHODINOL EX GERANIUM CHINA, ROSE ABS
             BULGARIAN LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE ABS MOROCCO LOW
             METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE ABS TURKISH LOW METHYL EUGENOL,
             ROSE ABSOLUTE, ROSE ABSOLUTE BULGARIAN, ROSE ABSOLUTE
             DAMASCENA, ROSE ABSOLUTE MD, ROSE ABSOLUTE MOROCCO,
             ROSE ABSOLUTE TURKISH, ROSE OIL BULGARIAN, ROSE OIL
             DAMASCENA LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE OIL TURKISH,
             ROSEMARY OIL CAMPHOR ORGANIC, ROSEMARY OIL TUNISIA,
             SANDALWOOD OIL INDIA, SANDALWOOD OIL INDIA RECTIFIED,
             SANTALOL, SCHINUS MOLLE OIL, ST JOHN BREAD TINCTURE 10 PCT,
             STYRAX RESINOID, STYRAX RESINOID, TAGETE OIL, TEA TREE
             HEART, TONKA BEAN ABS 50 PCT SOLVENTS, TONKA BEAN
             ABSOLUTE, TUBEROSE ABSOLUTE INDIA, VETIVER HEART EXTRA,
             VETIVER OIL HAITI, VETIVER OIL HAITI MD, VETIVER OIL JAVA,
             VETIVER OIL JAVA MD, VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE EGYPT, VIOLET
             LEAF ABSOLUTE EGYPT DECOL, VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE FRENCH,
             VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB, WORMWOOD OIL
             TERPENELESS, YLANG EXTRA OIL, YLANG III OIL and combinations of
             these.
             [000176]    The colorants can be among those listed in the Color Index
             International by the Society of Dyers and Colourists. Colorants include dyes and
             pigments and include those commonly used for coloring textiles, paints, inks and
             inkjet inks. Some colorants that can be utilized include carotenoids, arylide
             yellows, diarylide yellows, B-naphthols, naphthols, benzimidazolones, disazo
             condensation pigments, pyrazolones, nickel azo yellow, phthalocyanines,
             quinacridones, perylenes and perinones, isoindolinone and isoindoline pigments,
             triarylcarbonium pigments, diketopyrrolo-pyrrole pigments, thioindigoids.
             Cartenoids include e.g., alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene,
             lycopene, lutein and astaxanthin Annatto extract, Dehydrated beets (beet
             powder), Canthaxanthin, Caramel, 3-Apo-8'-carotenal, Cochineal extract,
             Carmine, Sodium copper chlorophyllin, Toasted partially defatted cooked
                                                  48

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             cottonseed flour, Ferrous gluconate, Ferrous lactate, Grape color extract, Grape
             skin extract (enocianina), Carrot oil, Paprika, Paprika oleoresin, Mica-based
             pearlescent pigments, Riboflavin, Saffron, Titanium dioxide, carbon black, self
             dispersed carbon, Tomato lycopene extract; tomato lycopene concentrate,
             Turmeric, Turmeric oleoresin, FD&C Blue No. 1, FD&C Blue No. 2, FD&C
             Green No. 3, Orange B, Citrus Red No. 2, FD&C Red No. 3, FD&C Red No. 40,
             FD&C Yellow No. 5, FD&C Yellow No. 6, Alumina (dried aluminum
             hydroxide), Calcium carbonate, Potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin
             (chlorophyllin-copper complex), Dihydroxyacetone, Bismuth oxychloride, Ferric
             ammonium ferrocyanide, Ferric ferrocyanide, Chromium hydroxide green,
             Chromium oxide greens, Guanine, Pyrophyllite, Talc, Aluminum powder, Bronze
             powder, Copper powder, Zinc oxide, D&C Blue No. 4, D&C Green No. 5, D&C
             Green No. 6, D&C Green No. 8, D&C Orange No. 4, D&C Orange No. 5, D&C
             Orange No. 10, D&C Orange No. 11, FD&C Red No. 4, D&C Red No. 6, D&C
             Red No. 7, D&C Red No. 17, D&C Red No. 21, D&C Red No. 22, D&C Red
             No. 27, D&C Red No. 28, D&C Red No. 30, D&C Red No. 31, D&C Red No.
             33, D&C Red No. 34, D&C Red No. 36, D&C Red No. 39, D&C Violet No. 2,
             D&C Yellow No. 7, Ext. D&C Yellow No. 7, D&C Yellow No. 8, D&C Yellow
             No. 10, D&C Yellow No. 11, D&C Black No. 2, D&C Black No. 3 (3), D&C
             Brown No. 1, Ext. D&C, Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide, Ferric ammonium
             citrate, Pyrogallol, Logwood extract, 1,4-Bis [(2-hydroxy-ethyl)amino] -9,10
             anthracenedione bis(2-propenoic)ester copolymers, 1,4-Bis [(2
             methylphenyl)amino] -9,10-anthracenedione, 1,4-Bis[4- (2-methacryloxyethyl)
             phenylamino] anthraquinone copolymers, Carbazole violet, Chlorophyllin-copper
             complex, Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide,, C.I. Vat Orange 1, 2-[[2,5
             Diethoxy- 4-[(4-methylphenyl)thiol] phenyl]azo] -1,3,5-benzenetriol, 16,23
             Dihydrodinaphtho [2,3-a:2',3'-i] naphth [2',3':6,7] indolo [2,3-c] carbazole
             5,10,15,17,22,24-hexone, N,N'-(9,10-Dihydro- 9,10-dioxo- 1,5-anthracenediyl)
             bisbenzamide, 7,16-Dichloro- 6,15-dihydro- 5,9,14,18-anthrazinetetrone, 16,17
             Dimethoxydinaphtho (1,2,3-cd:3',2',1'-lm) perylene-5,10-dione,
             Poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate) -dye copolymers(3), Reactive Black 5, Reactive
             Blue 21, Reactive Orange 78, Reactive Yellow 15, Reactive Blue No. 19,
             Reactive Blue No. 4, C.I. Reactive Red 11, C.I. Reactive Yellow 86, C.I.
             Reactive Blue 163, C.I. Reactive Red 180, 4-[(2,4-dimethylphenyl)azo]- 2,4
                                                   49

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             dihydro- 5-methyl-2-phenyl- 3H-pyrazol-3-one (solvent Yellow 18), 6-Ethoxy-2
             (6-ethoxy-3-oxobenzo[b] thien-2(3H)- ylidene) benzo[b]thiophen- 3(2H)-one,
             Phthalocyanine green, Vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate-dye reaction products,
             C.I. Reactive Red 180, C.I. Reactive Black 5, C.I. Reactive Orange 78, C.I.
             Reactive Yellow 15, C.I. Reactive Blue 21, Disodium 1-amino-4-[[4-[(2-bromo
             1-oxoallyl)amino] -2-sulphonatophenyl] amino] -9,1 0-dihydro-9, 10
             dioxoanthracene-2-sulphonate (Reactive Blue 69), D&C Blue No. 9,
             [Phthalocyaninato(2-)] copper and mixtures of these.
             [000177]    For example, a fragrance, e.g., natural wood fragrance, can be
             compounded into the resin used to make the composite. In some
             implementations, the fragrance is compounded directly into the resin as an oil.
             For example, the oil can be compounded into the resin using a roll mill, e.g., a
             Banburyo mixer or an extruder, e.g., a twin-screw extruder with counter-rotating
             screws. An example of a Banburyo mixer is the F-Series Banburyo mixer,
             manufactured by Farrel, Ansonia, CT. An example of a twin-screw extruder is the
             WP ZSK 50 MEGACOMPOUNDERTM, manufactured by Coperion, Stuttgart,
             Germany. After compounding, the scented resin can be added to the fibrous
             material and extruded or molded. Alternatively, master batches of fragrance-filled
             resins are available commercially from International Flavors and Fragrances,
             under the trade name POLYIFFTM. In some embodiments, the amount of
             fragrance in the composite is between about 0.005 % by weight and about 10 %
             by weight, e.g., between about 0.1 % and about 5 % or 0.25 % and about 2.5 %.
             Other natural wood fragrances include evergreen or redwood. Other fragrances
             include peppermint, cherry, strawberry, peach, lime, spearmint, cinnamon, anise,
             basil, bergamot, black pepper, camphor, chamomile, citronella, eucalyptus, pine,
             fir, geranium, ginger, grapefruit, jasmine, juniper berry, lavender, lemon,
             mandarin, marjoram, musk, myrrh, orange, patchouli, rose, rosemary, sage,
             sandalwood, tea tree, thyme, wintergreen, ylang ylang, vanilla, new car or
             mixtures of these fragrances. In some embodiments, the amount of fragrance in
             the fibrous material-fragrance combination is between about 0.005 % by weight
             and about 20 % by weight, e.g., between about 0.1 % and about 5 % or 0.25 %
             and about 2.5 %. Even other fragrances and methods are described U.S. Patent
             8,074,910 issued December 13, 2011, the entire disclosure of which incorporated
             herein by reference.
                                                   50

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             USES OF POLY HYDROXY-CARBOXYLIC ACID AND POLY
             HYDROXY-CARBOXYLIC ACID COPOLYMERS
             [000178]     Some uses of poly lactic acid and poly lactic acid containing materials
             include: personal care items (e.g., tissues, towels, diapers), green packaging,
             garden (compostable pots), consumer electronics (e.g., laptop and mobile phone
             casings), appliances, food packaging, disposable packaging (e.g., food containers
             and drink bottles), garbage bags (e.g., waste compostable bags), mulch films,
             controlled release matrices and containers (e.g., for fertilizers, pesticides,
             herbicides, nutrients, pharmaceuticals, flavoring agents, foods), shopping bags,
             general purpose film, high heat film, heat seal layer, surface coating, disposable
             tableware (e.g., plates, cups, forks, knives, spoons, sporks, bowls), automotive
             parts (e.g., panels, fabrics, under hood covers), carpet fibers, clothing fibers (e.g.,
             for garments, sportswear, footwear), biomedical applications (e.g., surgical
             sutures, implants, scaffolding, drug delivery systems, dialysis equipment) and
             engineering plastics.
             [000179]     Other uses/industrial sectors that can benefit from the use of poly
             lactic acid and poly lactic acid derivatives (e.g., elastomers) include IT and
             software, Electronics, geoscience (e.g., oil and gas), engineering, aerospace (e.g.,
             arm rests, seats, panels), telecommunications (e.g., headsets), chemical
             manufacturing, transportation such as automotive (e.g., dashboards, panels, tires,
             wheels), materials and steel, consumer packaged goods, wires and cables.
             OTHER ADVANTAGES OF POLY HYDROXY-CARBOXYLIC ACID AND
             POLY HYDROXY-CARBOXYLIC ACID COPOLYMERS
             [000180]     Poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids are bio-based and can be composted,
             recycled, used as a fuel (incinerated). Some of the degradation reactions include
             thermal degradation, hydrolytic degradation and biotic degradations.
             [000181]     For example, poly lactic acid can be thermally degraded. For example,
             at high temperatures (e.g., between about 200-300 'C, about 230-260 C). The
             reactions involved in the thermal degradation of poly lactic acid can follow
             different mechanisms such as thermo-hydrolysis, zipper-like depolymerization
             (e.g., in the presence of residual catalysts), thermo-oxidative degradation. Trans
             esterification reactions can also operate on the polymer causing bond breaking
             and/or bond making.
                                                    51

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             [000182]    Poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid also can undergo hydrolytic
             degradation. Hydrolytic degradation includes chain scission producing shorter
             polymers, oligomers and eventually the monomer, hydroxylic-carboxylic acid
             can be released. Hydrolysis can be associated with thermal and biotic
             degradation. For the example of poly lactic acid, the process can be effected by
             various parameters such as the poly lactic acid structure, its molecular weight and
             distribution, its morphology (e.g., crystallinity), the shape of the sample (e.g.,
             isolated thin samples or comminuted samples can degrade faster), the thermal and
             mechanical history (e.g., processing) and the hydrolysis conditions (e.g.,
             temperature, agitation, comminution). The hydrolysis of poly lactic acid starts
             with a water uptake phase, followed by hydrolytic splitting of the ester bonds.
             The amorphous parts of the polyesters can be hydrolyzed faster than the
             crystalline regions because of the higher water uptake and mobility of chain
             segments in these regions. In a second stage, the crystalline regions of poly lactic
             acid are hydrolyzed.
             [000183]    Poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid can also undergo biotic degradation.
             This degradation can occur for example, in a mammalian body, and has useful
             implications for degradable stitching and can have detrimental implications to
             other surgical implants. Enzymes, such as proteinase K and pronase can be
             utilized.
             [000184]    During composting, poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid can go through
             several degradation stages. For example, an initial stage can occur due to
             exposure to moisture wherein the degradation is abiotic and the poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acid degrades by hydrolysis. This stage can be accelerated by the
             presence of acids and bases and elevated temperatures. The first stage can lead to
             embrittlement of the polymer which can facilitate the diffusion of poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acid out of the bulk polymers. The oligomers can then be attacked by
             micro-organisms. Organisms can degrade the oligomers and D-lactic acid and/or
             L-lactic acid, leading to CO 2 and water. Time for this degradation is on the order
             of about one to a few years depending on the factors previously mentioned. The
             degradation time is several orders of magnitude faster than typical petroleum
             based plastic such as polyethylene (e.g., on the order of hundreds of years).
             [000185]    Poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid may be recycled. For example, the poly
             lactic acid can be hydrolyzed to D-lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid, purified and
                                                   52

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             re-polymerized. Unlike other recyclable plastics such as polyethylene
             terephthalate and high density polyethylene, PLA poly lactic acid does not need
             to be down-graded to make a product of diminished value (e.g., from a bottle to
             decking or carpet). Poly lactic acid can be in theory recycled indefinitely.
             Optionally, poly lactic acid can be re-used and downgraded for several
             generations and then converted to lactic acid and re-polymerized.
             [000186]    Poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid can also be used as a fuel, for example,
             for energy production. Poly lactic acid can have high heat content e.g., up to
             about 8400 BTU. Incineration of pure poly lactic acid only releases carbon
             dioxide and water. Combinations with other ingredients typically amount to less
             than 1ppm of non poly lactic acid residuals (e.g., ash). Thus the combustion of
             poly lactic acid is cleaner than other renewable fuels, e.g. wood.
             [000187]    Poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid can have high gloss, high transparency,
             high clarity, high stiffness, can be UV stable, Non-allergenic, high flavor and
             aroma barrier properties, easy to blend, easy to mold, easy to shape, easy to
             emboss, easy to print on, lightweight, compostable.
             [000188]    Poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid can also be printed on for example, by
             lithographic, ink-jet printing, laser printing, fixed type printing, roller printing.
             Some poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid can also be written on, for example, using a
             pen.
             [000189]    Processing as described herein can also include irradiation. For
             example, irradiation with between about 1 and 150 Mrad radiation (e.g., for
             example, any range as described herein) can improve the compostability and
             recyclability of poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid and poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid
             containing materials.
             ADDITION OF CATALYST DEACTIVATING AGENT AND SIMILAR
             ADDITIVES
             [000190]    The polymerization of hydroxy-carboxylic acids is most often done
             with a catalyst. This catalyst can persist in the final polymer product and as such
             can be able to catalyze a reverse reaction when water is present, or possibly other
             deleterious chemistries. The catalyst can be deactivated by addition of
             deactivating agents such as anhydrides, phosphite, antioxidants or multifunctional
             carboxylic acids. The most effective multifunctional carboxylic acids are those
                                                    53

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             where two carboxylic acids are not more than about six carbon atoms apart
             wherein then counted carbon atoms include the carbonyl carbon. Examples of
             polycarboxylic acids include dicarboxylic acids such as tartaric acid, succinic
             acid, malic acid, fumaric acid, and adipic acid and where appropriate the
             stereoisomers. Another type of multifunctional carboxylic acid includes
             polycarboxylic acid which includes oligomers and polymers containing three or
             more carboxylic acid groups and a molecular weight of greater than about 500. A
             particularly preferred polycarboxylic acids includes polyacrylic acid. Without
             being bound by theory, the carboxylic acids near to each may be such that they
             can chelate the catalyst and leave it in a state where its catalytic sites have been
             occupied, thus reducing the negative reactions.
             [000191]    Polymers of poly carboxylic acid can include polyacrylic acids and
             especially poly (meth)acrylic acids. The latter has the advantage that it may
             render the complexed catalyst more soluble in the polymer. It should be noted
             that the poly (meth)acrylic and poly acrylic acids must be included as discreet
             polymers and not as the (meth)acrylic acid. These poly (meth) acrylic acids have
             pendant carboxylic acids, not carboxylic acids that become part of the polyester
             chain.
             [000192]    Phosphite antioxidants include Tris(2,4-ditert-butylphenyl)phosphite
             and other tri substituted phosphites. These may also be used to deactivate the
             catalysts.
             [000193]    Compounds like ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, commonly
             abbreviated as EDTA may also be used to complex with and/or deactivate the
             catalyst. Compounds related to EDTA may also be used, such as N
             (hydroxyethyl)-ethylenediamine-triacetic acid, diethylene triamine pentaacetic
             acid, and nitrilotriacetic acid.
             [000194]    Anhydrides include acetic anhydride, pivaloyl anhydride, maleic
             anhydride, succinic anhydride. When anhydrides are used 2 to 60 molar
             equivalents based on the moles of catalysts can be used.
             [000195]    These additives for the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acids can easily be
             added just prior, during or directly after the polymer is processed in the thin film
             evaporator or thin film polymerization/devolatilization device. They can be
             described as stabilizers.
                                                   54

WO 2014/176509                                                                PCT/US2014/035469
             [000196]      Compounds that are solids are also candidates to deactivate the
             catalysts. Not only can these bind/bond to the catalyst they can be of such a size
             that the filtration of the catalyst from the polymer is improved. These include
             hydroxylic medium, and similar compounds.
             [000197]      Combinations of these additives may also be used. For instance
             anhydrides may be used with the solids may be used. For example, acetic
             anhydride and alumina may be used to deactivate the catalyst and facilitate
             removal by filtration.
             [000198]      The catalyst may be removed after complexation/reaction with/
             binding /bonding to the catalysts deactivating systems described above. The
             removal can be just prior to/during/after the thin film evaporator system
             described above.
             RADIATION TREATMENT
             [000199]          The feedstock (e.g., cellulosic, lignocellulosic, and combinations
             of these) that can produce precursors to hydroxy-carboxylic acids can be treated
             with electron bombardment to modify its structure, for example, to reduce its
             recalcitrance or cross link the structures. Such treatment can, for example, reduce
             the average molecular weight of the feedstock, change the crystalline structure of
             the feedstock, and/or increase the surface area and/or porosity of the feedstock.
             Radiation can be by, for example, electron beam, ion beam, 100 nm to 28 nm
             ultraviolet (UV) light, gamma or X-ray radiation. Radiation treatments and
             systems for treatments are discussed in U.S. Patent 8,142,620, and U.S. Patent
             Application Series No. 12/417, 731, the entire disclosures of which are
             incorporated herein by reference.
             [000200]          Each form of radiation ionizes the biomass via particular
             interactions, as determined by the energy of the radiation. Heavy charged
             particles primarily ionize matter via Coulomb scattering; furthermore, these
             interactions produce energetic electrons that may further ionize matter. Alpha
             particles are identical to the nucleus of a helium atom and are produced by the
             alpha decay of various radioactive nuclei, such as isotopes of bismuth, polonium,
             astatine, radon, francium, radium, several actinides, such as actinium, thorium,
             uranium, neptunium, curium, californium, americium, and plutonium. Electrons
                                                     55

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             interact via Coulomb scattering and bremsstrahlung radiation produced by
             changes in the velocity of electrons.
             [000201]         When particles are utilized, they can be neutral (uncharged),
             positively charged or negatively charged. When charged, the charged particles
             can bear a single positive or negative charge, or multiple charges, e.g., one, two,
             three or even four or more charges. In instances in which chain scission is
             desired to change the molecular structure of the carbohydrate containing material,
             positively charged particles may be desirable, in part, due to their acidic nature.
             When particles are utilized, the particles can have the mass of a resting electron,
             or greater, e.g., 500, 1000, 1500, or 2000 or more times the mass of a resting
             electron. For example, the particles can have a mass of from about 1 atomic unit
             to about 150 atomic units, e.g., from about 1 atomic unit to about 50 atomic units,
             or from about I to about 25, e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 12 or 15 atomic units.
             [000202]         Gamma radiation has the advantage of a significant penetration
             depth into a variety of material in the sample.
             In embodiments in which the irradiating is performed with electromagnetic
             radiation, the electromagnetic radiation can have, e.g., energy per photon (in
             electron volts) of greater than 102 eV, e.g., greater than 10 3, 104 , 105, 106, or even
             greater than 107 eV. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has
             energy per photon of between 104 and 107 , e.g., between 105 and 106 eV. The
             electromagnetic radiation can have a frequency of, e.g., greater than 1016 Hz,
             greater than 1017 Hz, 1018, 1019, 1020, or even greater than 1021 Hz. In some
             embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has a frequency of between 1018 and
             102 Hz, e.g., between 1019 to 102 Hz.
             [000203]         Electron bombardment may be performed using an electron beam
             device that has a nominal energy of less than 10 MeV, e.g., less than 7 MeV, less
             than 5 MeV, or less than 2 MeV, e.g., from about 0.5 to 1.5 MeV, from about 0.8
             to 1.8 MeV, or from about 0.7 to 1 MeV. In some implementations the nominal
             energy is about 500 to 800 keV.
             [000204] The electron beam may have a relatively high total beam power (the
             combined beam power of all accelerating heads, or, if multiple accelerators are
             used, of all accelerators and all heads), e.g., at least 25 kW, e.g., at least 30, 40,
             50, 60, 65, 70, 80, 100, 125, or 150, 250, 300 kW. In some cases, the power is
             even as high as 500 kW, 750 kW, or even 1000 kW or more. In some cases the
                                                   56

WO 2014/176509                                                                PCT/US2014/035469
             electron beam has a beam power of 1200 kW or more, e.g., 1400, 1600, 1800, or
             even 3000 kW. The electron beam may have a total beam power of 25 to 3000
             kW. Alternatively, the electron beam may have a total beam power of 75 to 1500
             kW. Optionally, the electron beam may have a total beam power of 100 to 1000
             kW. Alternatively, the electron beam may have a total beam power of 100 to 400
             kW.
             [000205]         This high total beam power is usually achieved by utilizing
             multiple accelerating heads. For example, the electron beam device may include
             two, four, or more accelerating heads. The use of multiple heads, each of which
             has a relatively low beam power, prevents excessive temperature rise in the
             material, thereby preventing burning of the material, and also increases the
             uniformity of the dose through the thickness of the layer of material.
             [000206]         It is generally preferred that the bed of biomass material has a
             relatively uniform thickness. In some embodiments the thickness is less than
             about 1 inch (e.g., less than about 0.75 inches, less than about 0.5 inches, less
             than about 0.25 inches, less than about 0.1 inches, between about 0.1 and 1 inch,
             between about 0.2 and 0.3 inches).
             [000207]    It is desirable to treat the material as quickly as possible. In general, it
             is preferred that treatment be performed at a dose rate of greater than about 0.25
             Mrad per second, e.g., greater than about 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 5, 7, 10, 12, 15, or
             even greater than about 20 Mrad per second, e.g., about 0.25 to 30 Mrad per
             second. Alternately, the treatment is performed at a dose rate of 0.5 to 20 Mrad
             per second. Optionally, the treatment is performed at a dose rate of 0.75 to 15
             Mrad per second. Alternately, the treatment is performed at a dose rate of 1 to 5
             Mrad per second. Optionally, the treatment is performed at a dose rate of 1-3
             Mrad per second or alternatively 1-2 Mrad per second. Higher dose rates allow a
             higher throughput for a target (e.g., the desired) dose. Higher dose rates generally
             require higher line speeds, to avoid thermal decomposition of the material. In
             one implementation, the accelerator is set for 3 MeV, 50 mA beam current, and
             the line speed is 24 feet/minute, for a sample thickness of about 20 mm (e.g.,
             comminuted corn cob material with a bulk density of 0.5 g/cm 3).
             [000208]         In some embodiments, electron bombardment is performed until
             the material receives a total dose of at least 0.1 Mrad, 0.25 Mrad, 1 Mrad, 5
             Mrad, e.g., at least 10, 20, 30 or at least 40 Mrad. In some embodiments, the
                                                     57

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             treatment is performed until the material receives a dose of from about 10 Mrad
             to about 50 Mrad, e.g., from about 20 Mrad to about 40 Mrad, or from about 25
             Mrad to about 30 Mrad. In some implementations, a total dose of 25 to 35 Mrad
             is preferred, applied ideally over a couple of passes, e.g., at 5 Mrad/pass with
             each pass being applied for about one second. Cooling methods, systems and
             equipment can be used before, during, after and in between radiations, for
             example, utilizing a cooling screw conveyor and/or a cooled vibratory conveyor.
             [000209]        Using multiple heads as discussed above, the material can be
             treated in multiple passes, for example, two passes at 10 to 20 Mrad/pass, e.g., 12
             to 18 Mrad/pass, separated by a few seconds of cool-down, or three passes of 7 to
             12 Mrad/pass, e.g., 5 to 20 Mrad/pass, 10 to 40 Mrad/pass, 9 to 11 Mrad/pass. As
             discussed herein, treating the material with several relatively low doses, rather
             than one high dose, tends to prevent overheating of the material and also
             increases dose uniformity through the thickness of the material. In some
             implementations, the material is stirred or otherwise mixed during or after each
             pass and then smoothed into a uniform layer again before the next pass, to further
             enhance treatment uniformity.
             [000210]        In some embodiments, electrons are accelerated to, for example, a
             speed of greater than 75 percent of the speed of light, e.g., greater than 85, 90, 95,
             or 99 percent of the speed of light.
             [000211]        In some embodiments, any processing described herein occurs on
             lignocellulosic material that remains dry as acquired or that has been dried, e.g.,
             using heat and/or reduced pressure. For example, in some embodiments, the
             cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic material has less than about 25 wt. % retained
             water, measured at 25'C and at fifty percent relative humidity (e.g., less than
             about 20 wt.%, less than about 15 wt.%, less than about 14 wt.%, less than about
             13 wt.%, less than about 12 wt.%, less than about 10 wt.%, less than about 9
             wt.%, less than about 8 wt.%, less than about 7 wt.%, less than about 6 wt.%, less
             than about 5 wt.%, less than about 4 wt.%, less than about 3 wt.%, less than about
             2 wt.%, less than about 1 wt.%, or less than about 0.5 wt.%.
             [000212]        In some embodiments, two or more ionizing sources can be used,
             such as two or more electron sources. For example, samples can be treated, in
             any order, with a beam of electrons, followed by gamma radiation and UV light
             having wavelengths from about 100 nm to about 280 nm. In some embodiments,
                                                   58

WO 2014/176509                                                                 PCT/US2014/035469
             samples are treated with three ionizing radiation sources, such as a beam of
             electrons, gamma radiation, and energetic UV light. The biomass is conveyed
             through the treatment zone where it can be bombarded with electrons.
             [000213]          It may be advantageous to repeat the treatment to more thoroughly
             reduce the recalcitrance of the biomass and/or further modify the biomass. In
             particular. the process parameters can be adjusted after a first (e.g., second, third,
             fourth or more) pass depending on the recalcitrance of the material. In some
             embodiments, a conveyor can be used which includes a circular system where the
             biomass is conveyed multiple times through the various processes described
             above. In some other embodiments, multiple treatment devices (e.g., electron
             beam generators) are used to treat the biomass multiple (e.g., 2, 3, 4 or more)
             times. In yet other embodiments, a single electron beam generator may be the
             source of multiple beams (e.g., 2, 3, 4 or more beams) that can be used for
             treatment of the biomass.
             [000214]          The effectiveness in changing the molecular/supermolecular
             structure and/or reducing the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing
             biomass depends on the electron energy used and the dose applied, while
             exposure time depends on the power and dose. In some embodiments, the dose
             rate and total dose are adjusted so as not to destroy (e.g., char or burn) the
             biomass material. For example, the carbohydrates should not be damaged in the
             processing so that they can be released from the biomass intact, e.g. as
             monomeric sugars.
             [000215]          In some embodiments, the treatment (with any electron source or a
             combination of sources) is performed until the material receives a dose of at least
             about 0.05 Mrad, e.g., at least about 0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, 10.0,
             15, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 125, 150, 175, or 200 Mrad. In some
             embodiments, the treatment is performed until the material receives a dose of
             between 0.1-100 Mrad, 1-200, 5-200, 10-200, 5-150, 50-150 Mrad, 5-100, 5-50,
             5-40, 10-50, 10-75, 15-50, 20-35 Mrad.
             [000216]          In some embodiments, relatively low doses of radiation are
             utilized, e.g., to increase the molecular weight of a cellulosic or lignocellulosic
             material (with any radiation source or a combination of sources described herein).
             For example, a dose of at least about 0.05 Mrad, e.g., at least about 0.1 Mrad or at
             least about 0.25, 0.5, 0.75. 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, or at least about 5.0
                                                    59

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             Mrad. In some embodiments, the irradiation is performed until the material
             receives a dose of between 0.lMrad and 2.0 Mrad, e.g., between 0.5rad and 4.0
             Mrad or between 1.0 Mrad and 3.0 Mrad.
             [000217]         It also can be desirable to irradiate from multiple directions,
             simultaneously or sequentially, in order to achieve a desired degree of penetration
             of radiation into the material. For example, depending on the density and
             moisture content of the material, such as wood, and the type of radiation source
             used (e.g., gamma or electron beam), the maximum penetration of radiation into
             the material may be only about 0.75 inch. In such a cases, a thicker section (up to
             1.5 inch) can be irradiated by first irradiating the material from one side, and then
             turning the material over and irradiating from the other side. Irradiation from
             multiple directions can be particularly useful with electron beam radiation, which
             irradiates faster than gamma radiation but typically does not achieve as great a
             penetration depth.
             RADIATION SOURCES
             [000218]         The type of radiation determines the kinds of radiation sources
             used as well as the radiation devices and associated equipment. The methods,
             systems and equipment described herein, for example, for treating materials with
             radiation, can utilized sources as described herein as well as any other useful
             source.
             [000219]         Sources of gamma rays include radioactive nuclei, such as
             isotopes of cobalt, calcium, technetium, chromium, gallium, indium, iodine, iron,
             krypton, samarium, selenium, sodium, thallium, and xenon.
             [000220]         Sources of X-rays include electron beam collision with metal
             targets, such as tungsten or molybdenum or alloys, or compact light sources, such
             as those produced commercially by Lyncean.
             [000221]         Alpha particles are identical to the nucleus of a helium atom and
             are produced by the alpha decay of various radioactive nuclei, such as isotopes of
             bismuth, polonium, astatine, radon, francium, radium, several actinides, such as
             actinium, thorium, uranium, neptunium, curium, californium, americium, and
             plutonium.
             [000222]         Sources for ultraviolet radiation include deuterium or cadmium
             lamps.
                                                     60

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             [000223]        Sources for infrared radiation include sapphire, zinc, or selenide
             window ceramic lamps.
             [000224]        Sources for microwaves include klystrons, Slevin type RF sources,
             or atom beam sources that employ hydrogen, oxygen, or nitrogen gases.
             [000225]          Accelerators used to accelerate the particles can be electrostatic
             DC, electrodynamic DC, RF linear, magnetic induction linear or continuous
             wave. For example, cyclotron type accelerators are available from IBA,
             Belgium, such as the RHODOTRON             system, while DC type accelerators are
             available from RDI, now IBA Industrial, such as the DYNAMITRON@. Ions
             and ion accelerators are discussed in Introductory Nuclear Physics, Kenneth S.
             Krane, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (1988), Krsto Prelec, FIZIKA B 6 (1997) 4, 177
             206, , Chu, William T., "Overview of Light-Ion Beam Therapy", Columbus
             Ohio, ICRU-IAEA Meeting, 18-20 March 2006, , Iwata, Y. et al., "Alternating
             Phase-Focused IH-DTL for Heavy-Ion Medical Accelerators", Proceedings of
             EPAC 2006, Edinburgh, Scotland, , and Leitner, C.M. et al., "Status of the
             Superconducting ECR Ion Source Venus", Proceedings of EPAC 2000, Vienna,
             Austria
             [000226]        Electrons may be produced by radioactive nuclei that undergo beta
             decay, such as isotopes of iodine, cesium, technetium, and iridium. Alternatively,
             an electron gun can be used as an electron source via thermionic emission and
             accelerated through an accelerating potential. An electron gun generates
             electrons, which are then accelerated through a large potential (e.g., greater than
             about 500 thousand, greater than about 1 million, greater than about 2 million,
             greater than about 5 million, greater than about 6 million, greater than about 7
             million, greater than about 8 million, greater than about 9 million, or even greater
             than 10 million volts) and then scanned magnetically in the x-y plane, where the
             electrons are initially accelerated in the z direction down the accelerator tube and
             extracted through a foil window. Scanning the electron beams is useful for
             increasing the irradiation surface when irradiating materials, e.g., a biomass, that
             is conveyed through the scanned beam. Scanning the electron beam also
             distributes the thermal load homogenously on the window and helps reduce the
             foil window rupture due to local heating by the electron beam. Window foil
             rupture is a cause of significant down-time due to subsequent necessary repairs
             and re-starting the electron gun.
                                                    61

WO 2014/176509                                                                 PCT/US2014/035469
             [000227]         Various other irradiating devices may be used in the methods
             disclosed herein, including field ionization sources, electrostatic ion separators,
             field ionization generators, thermionic emission sources, microwave discharge
             ion sources, recirculating or static accelerators, dynamic linear accelerators, van
             de Graaff accelerators, and folded tandem accelerators. Such devices are
             disclosed, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 7,931,784 to Medoff, the complete
             disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
             [000228]         A beam of electrons can be used as the radiation source. A beam
             of electrons has the advantages of high dose rates (e.g., 1, 5, or even 10 Mrad per
             second), high throughput, less containment, and less confinement equipment.
             Electron beams can also have high electrical efficiency (e.g., 80%), allowing for
             lower energy usage relative to other radiation methods, which can translate into a
             lower cost of operation and lower greenhouse gas emissions corresponding to the
             smaller amount of energy used. Electron beams can be generated, e.g., by
             electrostatic generators, cascade generators, transformer generators, low energy
             accelerators with a scanning system, low energy accelerators with a linear
             cathode, linear accelerators, and pulsed accelerators.
             [000229]         Electrons can also be more efficient at causing changes in the
             molecular structure of carbohydrate-containing materials, for example, by the
             mechanism of chain scission. In addition, electrons having energies of 0.5-10
             MeV can penetrate low density materials, such as the biomass materials
             described herein, e.g., materials having a bulk density of less than 0.5 g/cm3 , and
             a depth of 0.3-10 cm. Electrons as an ionizing radiation source can be useful,
             e.g., for relatively thin piles, layers or beds of materials, e.g., less than about 0.5
             inch, e.g., less than about 0.4 inch, 0.3 inch, 0.25 inch, or less than about 0.1 inch.
             In some embodiments, the energy of each electron of the electron beam is from
             about 0.3 MeV to about 2.0 MeV (million electron volts), e.g., from about 0.5
             MeV to about 1.5 MeV, or from about 0.7 MeV to about 1.25 MeV. Methods of
             irradiating materials are discussed in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 A1, filed
             October 18, 2011, the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by
             reference.
             [000230]         Electron beam irradiation devices may be procured commercially
             from Ion Beam Applications, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium, NHV Corporation,
             Japan or the Titan Corporation, San Diego, CA. Typical electron energies can be
                                                     62

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             0.5 MeV, 1 MeV, 2 MeV, 4.5 MeV, 7.5 MeV, or 10 MeV. Typical electron
             beam irradiation device power can be 1 kW, 5 kW, 10 kW, 20 kW, 50 kW, 60
             kW, 70 kW, 80 kW, 90 kW, 100 kW, 125 kW, 150 kW, 175 kW, 200 kW, 250
             kW, 300 kW, 350 kW, 400 kW, 450 kW, 500 kW, 600 kW, 700 kW, 800 kW,
             900 kW or even 1000 kW.
             [000231]          Tradeoffs in considering electron beam irradiation device power
             specifications include cost to operate, capital costs, depreciation, and device
             footprint. Tradeoffs in considering exposure dose levels of electron beam
             irradiation would be energy costs and environment, safety, and health (ESH)
             concerns. Typically, generators are housed in a vault, e.g., of lead or concrete,
             especially for production from X-rays that are generated in the process.
             Tradeoffs in considering electron energies include energy costs.
             [000232]          The electron beam irradiation device can produce either a fixed
             beam or a scanning beam. A scanning beam may be advantageous with large
             scan sweep length and high scan speeds, as this would effectively replace a large,
             fixed beam width. Further, available sweep widths of 0.5 m, 1 m, 2 m or more
             are available. The scanning beam is preferred in most embodiments describe
             herein because of the larger scan width and reduced possibility of local heating
             and failure of the windows.
             ELECTRON GUNS - WINDOWS
             [000233]          The extraction system for an electron accelerator can include two
             window foils. The cooling gas in the two foil window extraction system can be a
             purge gas or a mixture, for example, air, or a pure gas. In one embodiment the
             gas is an inert gas such as nitrogen, argon, helium and or carbon dioxide. It is
             preferred to use a gas rather than a liquid since energy losses to the electron beam
             are minimized. Mixtures of pure gas can also be used, either pre-mixed or mixed
             in line prior to impinging on the windows or in the space between the windows.
             The cooling gas can be cooled, for example, by using a heat exchange system
             (e.g., a chiller) and/or by using boil off from a condensed gas (e.g., liquid
             nitrogen, liquid helium). Window foils are described in PCT/US2013/64332 filed
             October 10, 2013 the full disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
                                                    63

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             ELECTRON GUNS - BEAM STOPS
             [000234]         In some embodiments the systems and methods include a beam
             stop (e.g., a shutter). For example, the beam stop can be used to quickly stop or
             reduce the irradiation of material without powering down the electron beam
             device. Alternatively the beam stop can be used while powering up the electron
             beam, e.g., the beam stop can stop the electron beam until a beam current of a
             desired level is achieved. The beam stop can be placed between the primary foil
             window and a secondary foil window. For example, the beam stop can be
             mounted so that it is movable, that is, so that it can be moved into and out of the
             beam path. Even partial coverage of the beam can be used, for example, to
             control the dose of irradiation. The beam stop can be mounted to the floor, to a
             conveyor for the biomass, to a wall, to the radiation device (e.g., at the scan
             horn), or to any structural support. Preferably the beam stop is fixed in relation to
             the scan horn so that the beam can be effectively controlled by the beam stop.
             The beam stop can incorporate a hinge, a rail, wheels, slots, or other means
             allowing for its operation in moving into and out of the beam. The beam stop can
             be made of any material that will stop at least 5% of the electrons, e.g., at least
             10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%,
             93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or even about 100% of the electrons.
             [000235]         The beam stop can be made of a metal including, but not limited
             to, stainless steel, lead, iron, molybdenum, silver, gold, titanium, aluminum, tin,
             or alloys of these, or laminates (layered materials) made with such metals (e.g.,
             metal-coated ceramic, metal-coated polymer, metal-coated composite,
             multilayered metal materials).
             [000236]         The beam stop can be cooled, for example, with a cooling fluid
             such as an aqueous solution or a gas. The beam stop can be partially or
             completely hollow, for example, with cavities. Interior spaces of the beam stop
             can be used for cooling fluids and gases. The beam stop can be of any shape,
             including flat, curved, round, oval, square, rectangular, beveled and wedged
             shapes.
             [000237]         The beam stop can have perforations so as to allow some electrons
             through, thus controlling (e.g., reducing) the levels of radiation across the whole
             area of the window, or in specific regions of the window. The beam stop can be a
             mesh formed, for example, from fibers or wires. Multiple beam stops can be
                                                    64

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             used, together or independently, to control the irradiation. The beam stop can be
             remotely controlled, e.g., by radio signal or hard wired to a motor for moving the
             beam into or out of position.
             BEAM DUMPS
             [000238]         The embodiments disclosed herein can also include a beam dump
             when utilizing a radiation treatment. A beam dump's purpose is to safely absorb
             a beam of charged particles. Like a beam stop, a beam dump can be used to
             block the beam of charged particles. However, a beam dump is much more
             robust than a beam stop, and is intended to block the full power of the electron
             beam for an extended period of time. They are often used to block the beam as
             the accelerator is powering up.
             [000239]         Beam dumps are also designed to accommodate the heat generated
             by such beams, and are usually made from materials such as copper, aluminum,
             carbon, beryllium, tungsten, or mercury. Beam dumps can be cooled, for
             example, using a cooling fluid that can be in thermal contact with the beam
             dump.
             HEATING AND THROUGHPUT DURING RADIATION TREATMENT
             [000240]         Several processes can occur in biomass when electrons from an
             electron beam interact with matter in inelastic collisions. For example, ionization
             of the material, chain scission of polymers in the material, cross linking of
             polymers in the material, oxidation of the material, generation of X-rays
             ("Bremsstrahlung") and vibrational excitation of molecules (e.g., phonon
             generation). Without being bound to a particular mechanism, the reduction in
             recalcitrance can be due to several of these inelastic collision effects, for
             example, ionization, chain scission of polymers, oxidation and phonon
             generation. Some of the effects (e.g., especially X-ray generation), necessitate
             shielding and engineering barriers, for example, enclosing the irradiation
             processes in a concrete (or other radiation opaque material) vault. Another effect
             of irradiation, vibrational excitation, is equivalent to heating up the sample.
             Heating the sample by irradiation can help in recalcitrance reduction, but
             excessive heating can destroy the material, as will be explained below.
                                                    65

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             [000241]        The adiabatic temperature rise (AT) from adsorption of ionizing
             radiation is given by the equation: AT = D/Cp : where D is the average dose in
             kGy, C, is the heat capacity in J/g 0 C, and AT is the change in temperature in
             degrees Celsius. A typical dry biomass material will have a heat capacity close to
             2. Wet biomass will have a higher heat capacity dependent on the amount of
             water since the heat capacity of water is very high ( 4.19 J/g 0 C). Metals have
             much lower heat capacities, for example, 304 stainless steel has a heat capacity of
             0.5 J/g 0 C. The estimated temperature change due to the instant adsorption of
             radiation in a biomass and stainless steel for various doses of radiation is shown
             in Table 1.
             Table 1: Calculated Temperature increase for biomass and stainless steel.
                    Dose (Mrad)       Estimated Biomass          Steel AT ("C)
                                      AT ("C)
                    10                50                        200
                    50                250, decomposition         1000
                    100               500,decomposition         2000
                    150               750,decomposition          3000
                    200               1000, decomposition.      4000
             [000242]        High temperatures can destroy and or modify the biopolymers in
             biomass so that the polymers (e.g., cellulose) are unsuitable for further
             processing. A biomass subjected to high temperatures can become dark, sticky
             and give off odors indicating decomposition. The stickiness can even make the
             material hard to convey. The odors can be unpleasant and be a safety issue. In
             fact, keeping the biomass below about 200 0C has been found to be beneficial in
             the processes described herein (e.g., below about 190 0C, below about 180 0 C,
             below about 170 0C, below about 160 0C, below about 150 0C, below about 140
             0C,  below about 130 0C, below about 120 0C, below about 110 0 C, between
             about 60 0C and 180 0C, between about 60 0 C and 160 0C, between about 60 0C
             and 150 0 C, between about 60 0 C and 140 0C, between about 60 0C and 130 0C,
             between about 60 0C and 120 0C, between about 80 0C and 180 0 C, between
             about 100 0C and 180 0C, between about 120 0 C and 180 0C, between about 140
                                                   66

WO 2014/176509                                                                PCT/US2014/035469
             'C and 180 'C, between about 160 'C and 180 'C, between about 100 'C and 140
             'C, between about 80 'C and 120 C).
             [000243]          It has been found that irradiation above about 10 Mrad is desirable
             for the processes described herein (e.g., reduction of recalcitrance). A high
             throughput is also desirable so that the irradiation does not become a bottle neck
             in processing the biomass. The treatment is governed by a Dose rate equation: M
             = FP/D-time, where M is the mass of irradiated material (kg), F is the fraction of
             power that is adsorbed (unit less), P is the emitted power (kW=Voltage in MeV x
             Current in mA), time is the treatment time (sec) and D is the adsorbed dose
             (kGy). In an exemplary process where the fraction of adsorbed power is fixed, the
             Power emitted is constant and a set dosage is desired, the throughput (e.g., M, the
             biomass processed) can be increased by increasing the irradiation time. However,
             increasing the irradiation time without allowing the material to cool, can
             excessively heat the material as exemplified by the calculations shown above.
             Since biomass has a low thermal conductivity (less than about 0.1 Wm-1 K-'), heat
             dissipation is slow, unlike, for example, metals (greater than about 10 Wm-lK-1 )
             which can dissipate energy quickly as long as there is a heat sink to transfer the
             energy to.
             BIOMASS MATERIALS
             [000244]     Lignocellulosic materials include, but are not limited to, wood (e.g.,
             softwood, Pine softwood, Softwood, Softwood barks, Softwood stems, Spruce
             softwood, Hardwood, Willow Hardwood, aspen hardwood, Birch Hardwood,
             Hardwood barks, Hardwood stems, pine cones, pine needles), particle board,
             chemical pulps, mechanical pulps, paper, waste paper, forestry wastes (e.g.,
             sawdust, aspen wood, wood chips, leaves), grasses, (e.g., switchgrass,
             miscanthus, cord grass, reed canary grass, coastal Bermuda grass), grain residues,
             (e.g., rice hulls, oat hulls, wheat chaff, barley hulls), agricultural waste (e.g.,
             silage, canola straw, wheat straw, barley straw, oat straw, rice straw, jute, hemp,
             flax, bamboo, sisal, abaca, corn cobs, corn stover, soybean stover, corn fiber,
             alfalfa, hay, coconut hair, nut shells, palm and coconut oil byproducts), cotton,
             cotton seed hairs, flax, sugar processing residues (e.g., bagasse, beet pulp, agave
             bagasse), , algae, seaweed, manure ( e.g., Solid cattle manure, Swine waste),
                                                    67

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             sewage, carrot processing waste, molasses spent wash, alfalfa biver and mixtures
             of any of these.
             [000245] In some cases, the lignocellulosic material includes corncobs. Ground
             or hammermilled corncobs can be spread in a layer of relatively uniform
             thickness for irradiation, and after irradiation are easy to disperse in the medium
             for further processing. To facilitate harvest and collection, in some cases the
             entire corn plant is used, including the corn stalk, corn kernels, and in some cases
             even the root system of the plant.
             [000246] Advantageously, no additional nutrients (other than a nitrogen source,
             e.g., urea or ammonia) are required during fermentation of corncobs or cellulosic
             or lignocellulosic materials containing significant amounts of corncobs.
             [000247]    Corncobs, before and after comminution, are also easier to convey and
             disperse, and have a lesser tendency to form explosive mixtures in air than other
             cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials such as hay and grasses.
             [000248]    Cellulosic materials include, for example, paper, paper products,
             paper waste, paper pulp, pigmented papers, loaded papers, coated papers, filled
             papers, magazines, printed matter (e.g., books, catalogs, manuals, labels,
             calendars, greeting cards, brochures, prospectuses, newsprint), printer paper,
             polycoated paper, card stock, cardboard, paperboard, materials having a high a
             cellulose content such as cotton, and mixtures of any of these. for example, paper
             products as described in U.S. App. No. 13/396,365 ("Magazine Feedstocks" by
             Medoff et al., filed February 14, 2012), the full disclosure of which is
             incorporated herein by reference.
             [000249] Cellulosic materials can also include lignocellulosic materials which
             have been partially or fully de-lignified.
             [000250]    In some instances other biomass materials can be utilized, for
             example, starchy materials. Starchy materials include starch itself, e.g., corn
             starch, wheat starch, potato starch or rice starch, a derivative of starch, or a
             material that includes starch, such as an edible food product or a crop. For
             example, the starchy material can be arracacha, buckwheat, banana, barley,
             cassava, kudzu, oca, sago, sorghum, regular household potatoes, sweet potato,
             taro, yams, or one or more beans, such as favas, lentils or peas. Blends of any
             two or more starchy materials are also starchy materials. Mixtures of starchy,
             cellulosic and or lignocellulosic materials can also be used. For example, a
                                                    68

WO 2014/176509                                                                PCT/US2014/035469
             biomass can be an entire plant, a part of a plant or different parts of a plant, e.g., a
             wheat plant, cotton plant, a corn plant, rice plant or a tree. The starchy materials
             can be treated by any of the methods described herein.
             [000251]     Microbial materials include, but are not limited to, any naturally
             occurring or genetically modified microorganism or organism that contains or is
             capable of providing a source of carbohydrates (e.g., cellulose), for example,
             protists, e.g., animal protists (e.g., protozoa such as flagellates, amoeboids,
             ciliates, and sporozoa) and plant protists (e.g., algae such alveolates,
             chlorarachniophytes, cryptomonads, euglenids, glaucophytes, haptophytes, red
             algae, stramenopiles, and viridaeplantae). Other examples include seaweed,
             plankton (e.g., macroplankton, mesoplankton, microplankton, nanoplankton,
             picoplankton, and femtoplankton), phytoplankton, bacteria (e.g., gram positive
             bacteria, gram negative bacteria, and extremophiles), yeast and/or mixtures of
             these. In some instances, microbial biomass can be obtained from natural
             sources, e.g., the ocean, lakes, bodies of water, e.g., salt water or fresh water, or
             on land. Alternatively or in addition, microbial biomass can be obtained from
             culture systems, e.g., large scale dry and wet culture and fermentation systems.
             In other embodiments, the biomass materials, such as cellulosic, starchy and
             lignocellulosic feedstock materials, can be obtained from transgenic
             microorganisms and plants that have been modified with respect to a wild type
             variety. Such modifications may be, for example, through the iterative steps of
             selection and breeding to obtain desired traits in a plant. Furthermore, the plants
             can have had genetic material removed, modified, silenced and/or added with
             respect to the wild type variety. For example, genetically modified plants can be
             produced by recombinant DNA methods, where genetic modifications include
             introducing or modifying specific genes from parental varieties, or, for example,
             by using transgenic breeding wherein a specific gene or genes are introduced to a
             plant from a different species of plant and/or bacteria. Another way to create
             genetic variation is through mutation breeding wherein new alleles are artificially
             created from endogenous genes. The artificial genes can be created by a variety
             of ways including treating the plant or seeds with, for example, chemical
             mutagens (e.g., using alkylating agents, epoxides, alkaloids, peroxides,
             formaldehyde), irradiation (e.g., X-rays, gamma rays, neutrons, beta particles,
             alpha particles, protons, deuterons, UV radiation) and temperature shocking or
                                                     69

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             other external stressing and subsequent selection techniques. Other methods of
             providing modified genes is through error prone PCR and DNA shuffling
             followed by insertion of the desired modified DNA into the desired plant or seed.
             Methods of introducing the desired genetic variation in the seed or plant include,
             for example, the use of a bacterial carrier, biolistics, calcium phosphate
             precipitation, electroporation, gene splicing, gene silencing, lipofection,
             microinjection and viral carriers. Additional genetically modified materials have
             been described in U.S. Application Serial No 13/396,369 filed February 14, 2012
             the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
             Any of the methods described herein can be practiced with mixtures of any
             biomass materials described herein.
             BIOMASS MATERIAL PREPARATION - MECHANICAL
             TREATMENTS
             [000252]        The biomass can be in a dry form, for example, with less than
             about 35% moisture content (e.g., less than about 20 %, less than about 15 %,
             less than about 10 %less than about 5 %, less than about 4%, less than about 3
             %,less than about 2 % or even less than about 1 %). The biomass can also be
             delivered in a wet state, for example, as a wet solid, a slurry or a suspension with
             at least about 10 wt.% solids (e.g., at least about 20 wt.%, at least about 30 wt. %,
             at least about 40 wt.%, at least about 50 wt.%, at least about 60 wt.%, at least
             about 70 wt.%).
             [000253]        The processes disclosed herein can utilize low bulk density
             materials, for example, cellulosic or lignocellulosic feedstocks that have been
             physically pretreated to have a bulk density of less than about 0.75 g/cm3 , e.g.,
             less than about 0.7, 0.65, 0.60, 0.50, 0.35, 0.25, 0.20, 0.15, 0.10, 0.05 or less, e.g.,
             less than about 0.025 g/cm 3 . Bulk density is determined using ASTM D1895B.
             Briefly, the method involves filling a measuring cylinder of known volume with a
             sample and obtaining a weight of the sample. The bulk density is calculated by
             dividing the weight of the sample in grams by the known volume of the cylinder
             in cubic centimeters. If desired, low bulk density materials can be densified, for
             example, by methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,971,809 to Medoff, the full
             disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
                                                   70

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             [000254]         In some cases, the pre-treatment processing includes screening of
             the biomass material. Screening can be through a mesh or perforated plate with a
             desired opening size, for example, less than about 6.35 mm (1/4 inch, 0.25 inch),
             (e.g., less than about 3.18 mm (1/8 inch, 0.125 inch), less than about 1.59 mm
             (1/16 inch, 0.0625 inch), is less than about 0.79 mm (1/32 inch, 0.03125 inch),
             e.g., less than about 0.51 mm (1/50 inch, 0.02000 inch), less than about 0.40 mm
             (1/64 inch, 0.015625 inch), less than about 0.23 mm (0.009 inch), less than about
             0.20 mm (1/128 inch, 0.0078125 inch), less than about 0.18 mm (0.007 inch),
             less than about 0.13 mm (0.005 inch), or even less than about 0.10 mm (1/256
             inch, 0.00390625 inch)). In one configuration the desired biomass falls through
             the perforations or screen and thus biomass larger than the perforations or screen
             are not irradiated. These larger materials can be re-processed, for example, by
             comminuting, or they can simply be removed from processing. In another
             configuration material that is larger than the perforations is irradiated and the
             smaller material is removed by the screening process or recycled. In this kind of
             a configuration, the conveyor itself (for example, a part of the conveyor) can be
             perforated or made with a mesh. For example, in one particular embodiment the
             biomass material may be wet and the perforations or mesh allow water to drain
             away from the biomass before irradiation.
             [000255]         Screening of material can also be by a manual method, for
             example, by an operator or mechanoid (e.g., a robot equipped with a color,
             reflectivity or other sensor) that removes unwanted material. Screening can also
             be by magnetic screening wherein a magnet is disposed near the conveyed
             material and the magnetic material is removed magnetically.
             [000256]         Optional pre-treatment processing can include heating the
             material. For example, a portion of a conveyor conveying the biomass or other
             material can be sent through a heated zone. The heated zone can be created, for
             example, by IR radiation, microwaves, combustion (e.g., gas, coal, oil, biomass),
             resistive heating and/or inductive coils. The heat can be applied from at least one
             side or more than one side, can be continuous or periodic and can be for only a
             portion of the material or all the material. For example, a portion of the
             conveying trough can be heated by use of a heating jacket. Heating can be, for
             example, for the purpose of drying the material. In the case of drying the
             material, this can also be facilitated, with or without heating, by the movement of
                                                    71

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             a gas (e.g., air, oxygen, nitrogen, He, C0 2 , Argon) over and/or through the
             biomass as it is being conveyed.
             [000257]          Optionally, pre-treatment processing can include cooling the
             material. Cooling material is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,900,857 to Medoff, the
             disclosure of which in incorporated herein by reference. For example, cooling
             can be by supplying a cooling fluid, for example, water (e.g., with glycerol), or
             nitrogen (e.g., liquid nitrogen) to the bottom of the conveying trough.
             Alternatively, a cooling gas, for example, chilled nitrogen can be blown over the
             biomass materials or under the conveying system.
             [000258]          Another optional pre-treatment processing method can include
             adding a material to the biomass or other feedstocks. The additional material can
             be added by, for example, by showering, sprinkling and or pouring the material
             onto the biomass as it is conveyed. Materials that can be added include, for
             example, metals, ceramics and/or ions as described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub.
             2010/0105119 Al (filed October 26, 2009) and U.S. Pat. App. Pub.
             2010/0159569 Al (filed December 16, 2009), the entire disclosures of which are
             incorporated herein by reference. Optional materials that can be added include
             acids and bases. Other materials that can be added are oxidants (e.g., peroxides,
             chlorates), polymers, polymerizable monomers (e.g., containing unsaturated
             bonds), water, catalysts, enzymes and/or organisms. Materials can be added, for
             example, in pure form, as a solution in a solvent (e.g., water or an organic
             solvent) and/or as a solution. In some cases the solvent is volatile and can be
             made to evaporate e.g., by heating and/or blowing gas as previously described.
             The added material may form a uniform coating on the biomass or be a
             homogeneous mixture of different components (e.g., biomass and additional
             material). The added material can modulate the subsequent irradiation step by
             increasing the efficiency of the irradiation, damping the irradiation or changing
             the effect of the irradiation (e.g., from electron beams to X-rays or heat). The
             method may have no impact on the irradiation but may be useful for further
             downstream processing. The added material may help in conveying the material,
             for example, by lowering dust levels.
             [000259]          Biomass can be delivered to a conveyor (e.g., vibratory conveyors
             used in the vaults herein described) by a belt conveyor, a pneumatic conveyor, a
             screw conveyor, a hopper, a pipe, manually or by a combination of these. The
                                                     72

WO 2014/176509                                                                   PCT/US2014/035469
             biomass can, for example, be dropped, poured and/or placed onto the conveyor
             by any of these methods. In some embodiments the material is delivered to the
             conveyor using an enclosed material distribution system to help maintain a low
             oxygen atmosphere and/or control dust and fines. Lofted or air suspended
             biomass fines and dust are undesirable because these can form an explosion
             hazard or damage the window foils of an electron gun (if such a device is used
             for treating the material).
             [000260]         The material can be leveled to form a uniform thickness between
             about 0.0312 and 5 inches (e.g., between about 0.0625 and 2.000 inches, between
             about 0.125 and 1 inches, between about 0.125 and 0.5 inches, between about 0.3
             and 0.9 inches, between about 0.2 and 0.5 inches between about 0.25 and 1.0
             inches, between about 0.25 and 0.5 inches, 0.100 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.150 +/
             0.025 inches, 0.200 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.250 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.300 +/- 0.025
             inches, 0.350 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.400 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.450 +/- 0.025 inches,
             0.500 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.550 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.600 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.700 +/
             0.025 inches, 0.750 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.800 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.850 +/- 0.025
             inches, 0.900 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.900 +/- 0.025 inches.
             [000261]         Generally, it is preferred to convey the material as quickly as
             possible through the electron beam to maximize throughput. For example, the
             material can be conveyed at rates of at least 1 ft./min, e.g., at least 2 ft./min, at
             least 3 ft./min, at least 4 ft./min, at least 5 ft./min, at least 10 ft./min, at least 15
             ft./min, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 ft./min. The rate of conveying is related to the
             beam current, for example, for a         inch thick biomass and 100 mA, the conveyor
             can move at about 20 ft./min to provide a useful irradiation dosage, at 50 mA the
             conveyor can move at about 10 ft./min to provide approximately the same
             irradiation dosage.
             [000262]         After the biomass material has been conveyed through the
             radiation zone, optional post-treatment processing can be done. The optional
             post-treatment processing can, for example, be a process described with respect
             to the pre-irradiation processing. For example, the biomass can be screened,
             heated, cooled, and/or combined with bio-additives. Uniquely to post-irradiation,
             quenching of the radicals can occur, for example, quenching of radicals by the
             addition of fluids or gases (e.g., oxygen, nitrous oxide, ammonia, liquids), using
             pressure, heat, and/or the addition of radical scavengers. For example, the
                                                       73

WO 2014/176509                                                                 PCT/US2014/035469
             biomass can be conveyed out of the enclosed conveyor and exposed to a gas (e.g.,
             oxygen) where it is quenched, forming carboxylated groups. In one embodiment
             the biomass is exposed during irradiation to the reactive gas or fluid. Quenching
             of biomass that has been irradiated is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8,083,906 to
             Medoff, the entire disclosure of which is incorporate herein by reference.
             [000263]          If desired, one or more mechanical treatments can be used in
             addition to irradiation to further reduce the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate
             containing material. These processes can be applied before, during and or after
             irradiation.
             [000264]          In some cases, the mechanical treatment may include an initial
             preparation of the feedstock as received, e.g., size reduction of materials, such as
             by comminution, e.g., cutting, grinding, shearing, pulverizing or chopping. For
             example, in some cases, loose feedstock (e.g., recycled paper, starchy materials,
             or switchgrass) is prepared by shearing or shredding. Mechanical treatment may
             reduce the bulk density of the carbohydrate-containing material, increase the
             surface area of the carbohydrate-containing material and/or decrease one or more
             dimensions of the carbohydrate-containing material.
             [000265]     Alternatively, or in addition, the feedstock material can be treated
             with another treatment, for example, chemical treatments, such as with an acid
             (HCl, H 2 SO 4 , H 3 PO4), a base (e.g., KOH and NaOH), a chemical oxidant (e.g.,
             peroxides, chlorates, ozone), irradiation, steam explosion, pyrolysis, heat
             treatment, sonication, oxidation, chemical treatment. The treatments can be in
             any order and in any sequence and combinations. For example, the feedstock
             material can first be physically treated by one or more treatment methods, e.g.,
             chemical treatment including and in combination with acid hydrolysis (e.g.,
             utilizing HCl, H 2 SO 4 , H 3 PO4), radiation, heat treatment, sonication, oxidation,
             pyrolysis or steam explosion, and then mechanically treated. This sequence can
             be advantageous since materials treated by one or more of the other treatments,
             e.g., irradiation or pyrolysis, tend to be more brittle and, therefore, it may be
             easier to further change the structure of the material by mechanical treatment. As
             another example, a feedstock material can be conveyed through ionizing radiation
             using a conveyor as described herein and then mechanically treated. Chemical
             treatment can remove some or all of the lignin (for example, chemical pulping)
             and can partially or completely hydrolyze the material. The methods also can be
                                                      74

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             used with pre-hydrolyzed material. The methods also can be used with material
             that has not been pre hydrolyzed The methods can be used with mixtures of
             hydrolyzed and non-hydrolyzed materials, for example, with about 50% or more
             non-hydrolyzed material, with about 60% or more non- hydrolyzed material, with
             about 70% or more non-hydrolyzed material, with about 80% or more non
             hydrolyzed material or even with 90% or more non-hydrolyzed material
             [000266]         In addition to size reduction, which can be performed initially
             and/or later in processing, mechanical treatment can also be advantageous for
             "opening up," "stressing," breaking or shattering the carbohydrate-containing
             materials, making the cellulose of the materials more susceptible to chain scission
             and/or disruption of crystalline structure during the physical treatment.
             [000267]         Methods of mechanically treating the carbohydrate-containing
             material include, for example, milling or grinding. Milling may be performed
             using, for example, a hammer mill, ball mill, colloid mill, conical or cone mill,
             disk mill, edge mill, Wiley mill, grist mill or other mill. Grinding may be
             performed using, for example, a cutting/impact type grinder. Some exemplary
             grinders include stone grinders, pin grinders, coffee grinders, and burr grinders.
             Grinding or milling may be provided, for example, by a reciprocating pin or other
             element, as is the case in a pin mill. Other mechanical treatment methods include
             mechanical ripping or tearing, other methods that apply pressure to the fibers, and
             air attrition milling. Suitable mechanical treatments further include any other
             technique that continues the disruption of the internal structure of the material
             that was initiated by the previous processing steps.
             [000268]         Mechanical feed preparation systems can be configured to produce
             streams with specific characteristics such as, for example, specific maximum
             sizes, specific length-to-width, or specific surface areas ratios. Physical
             preparation can increase the rate of reactions, improve the movement of material
             on a conveyor, improve the irradiation profile of the material, improve the
             radiation uniformity of the material, or reduce the processing time required by
             opening up the materials and making them more accessible to processes and/or
             reagents, such as reagents in a solution.
             [000269]         The bulk density of feedstocks can be controlled (e.g., increased).
             In some situations, it can be desirable to prepare a low bulk density material, e.g.,
             by densifying the material (e.g., densification can make it easier and less costly to
                                                    75

WO 2014/176509                                                                 PCT/US2014/035469
             transport to another site) and then reverting the material to a lower bulk density
             state (e.g., after transport). The material can be densified, for example, from less
             than about 0.2 g/cc to more than about 0.9 g/cc (e.g., less than about 0.3 to more
             than about 0.5 g/ce, less than about 0.3 to more than about 0.9 g/ce, less than
             about 0.5 to more than about 0.9 g/ce, less than about 0.3 to more than about 0.8
             g/ce, less than about 0.2 to more than about 0.5 g/cc). For example, the material
             can be densified by the methods and equipment disclosed in U.S. Pat. No.
             7,932,065 to Medoff and International Publication No. WO 2008/073186 (which
             was filed October 26, 2007, was published in English, and which designated the
             United States), the full disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
             Densified materials can be processed by any of the methods described herein, or
             any material processed by any of the methods described herein can be
             subsequently densified.
             [000270]          In some embodiments, the material to be processed is in the form
             of a fibrous material that includes fibers provided by shearing a fiber source. For
             example, the shearing can be performed with a rotary knife cutter.
             [000271]          For example, a fiber source, e.g., that is recalcitrant or that has had
             its recalcitrance level reduced, can be sheared, e.g., in a rotary knife cutter, to
             provide a first fibrous material. The first fibrous material is passed through a first
             screen, e.g., having an average opening size of 1.59 mm or less (1/16 inch,
             0.0625 inch), provide a second fibrous material. If desired, the fiber source can
             be cut prior to the shearing, e.g., with a shredder. For example, when a paper is
             used as the fiber source, the paper can be first cut into strips that are, e.g., 1/4- to
             1/2-inch wide, using a shredder, e.g., a counter-rotating screw shredder, such as
             those manufactured by Munson (Utica, N.Y.). As an alternative to shredding, the
             paper can be reduced in size by cutting to a desired size using a guillotine cutter.
             For example, the guillotine cutter can be used to cut the paper into sheets that are,
             e.g., 10 inches wide by 12 inches long.
             [000272]          In some embodiments, the shearing of the fiber source and the
             passing of the resulting first fibrous material through a first screen are performed
             concurrently. The shearing and the passing can also be performed in a batch-type
             process.
             [000273]          For example, a rotary knife cutter can be used to concurrently
             shear the fiber source and screen the first fibrous material. A rotary knife cutter
                                                    76

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             includes a hopper that can be loaded with a shredded fiber source prepared by
             shredding a fiber source.
             [000274]     In some implementations, the feedstock is physically treated prior to
             saccharification and/or fermentation. Physical treatment processes can include
             one or more of any of those described herein, such as mechanical treatment,
             chemical treatment, irradiation, heat treatment, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis or
             steam explosion. Treatment methods can be used in combinations of two, three,
             four, or even all of these technologies (in any order). When more than one
             treatment method is used, the methods can be applied at the same time or at
             different times. Other processes that change a molecular structure of a biomass
             feedstock may also be used, alone or in combination with the processes disclosed
             herein.
             [000275]         Mechanical treatments that may be used, and the characteristics of
             the mechanically treated carbohydrate-containing materials, are described in
             further detail in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 A1, filed October 18, 2011,
             the full disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
             [000276]     The mechanical treatments described herein can also be applied to
             processing of hydroxyl-carboxylic polymers and hydroxyl-carboxylic polymers
             based materials.
             SONICATION, PYROLYSIS, OXIDATION, STEAM EXPLOSION
             [000277]         If desired, one or more sonication, pyrolysis, oxidative, or steam
             explosion processes can be used instead of or in addition to irradiation to reduce
             or further reduce the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing material. For
             example, these processes can be applied before, during and or after irradiation.
             These processes are described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7,932,065 to Medoff, the
             full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                   77

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             HEAT TREATMENT OF BIOMASS
             [000278]         Alternately, or in addition to the biomass may be heat treated for
             up to twelve hours at temperatures ranging from about 90'C to about 160'C.
             Optionally, this heat treatment step is performed after biomass has been irradiated
             with an electron beam. The amount of time for the heat treatment is up to 9
             hours, alternately up to 6 hours, optionally up to 4 hours and further up to about 2
             hours. The treatment time can be up to as little as 30 minutes when the mass may
             be effectively heated.
             [000279]    The heat treatment can be performed 90'C to about 160'C or,
             optionally, at 100 to 150 or, alternatively, at 120 to 140 'C. The biomass is
             suspended in water such that the biomass content is 10 to 75 wt. %in water. In
             the case of the biomass being the irradiated biomass water is added and the heat
             treatment performed.
             [000280]    The heat treatment is performed in an aqueous suspension or mixture
             of the biomass. The amount of biomass is 10 to 90 wt. % of the total mixture,
             alternatively 20 to 70 wt. %or optionally 25 to 50 wt. %. The irradiated biomass
             may have minimal water content so water must be added prior to the heat
             treatment.
             [000281]    Since at temperatures above 100 'C there will be pressure vessel
             required to accommodate the pressure due to the vaporized of water. The process
             for the heat treatment may be batch, continuous, semi-continuous or other reactor
             configurations. The continuous reactor configuration may be a tubular reactor
             and may include device(s) within the tube which will facilitate heat transfer and
             mixing/suspension of the biomass. These tubular devices may include a one or
             more static mixers. The heat may also be put into the system by direct injection
             of steam.
             USE OF TREATED BIOMASS MATERIAL
             [000282]    Using the methods described herein, a starting biomass material (e.g.,
             plant biomass, animal biomass, paper, and municipal waste biomass) can be used
             as feedstock to produce useful intermediates and products such as organic acids,
             salts of organic acids, hydroxyl-carboxylic acids, (for instance, lactic acid), acid
             anhydrides, esters of organic acids and fuels, e.g., fuels for internal combustion
                                                    78

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             engines or feedstocks for fuel cells. Systems and processes are described herein
             that can use as feedstock cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic materials that are
             readily available, but often can be difficult to process, e.g., municipal waste
             streams and waste paper streams, such as streams that include newspaper, kraft
             paper, corrugated paper or mixtures of these.
             [000283] In order to convert the feedstock to a form that can be readily
             processed, the glucan- or xylan-containing cellulose in the feedstock can be
             hydrolyzed to low molecular weight carbohydrates, such as sugars, by a
             saccharifying agent, e.g., an enzyme or acid, a process referred to as
             saccharification. The low molecular weight carbohydrates can then be used, for
             example, in an existing manufacturing plant, such as a single cell protein plant,
             an enzyme manufacturing plant, or a fuel plant, e.g., an ethanol manufacturing
             facility.
             [000284] The feedstock can be hydrolyzed using an enzyme, e.g., by combining
             the materials and the enzyme in a solvent, e.g., in an aqueous solution.
             [000285]    Alternatively, the enzymes can be supplied by organisms that break
             down biomass, such as the cellulose and/or the lignin portions of the biomass,
             contain or manufacture various cellulolytic enzymes (cellulases), ligninases or
             various small molecule biomass-degrading metabolites. These enzymes may be a
             complex of enzymes that act synergistically to degrade crystalline cellulose or the
             lignin portions of biomass. Examples of cellulolytic enzymes include:
             endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and cellobiases (beta-glucosidases).
             [000286] During saccharification a cellulosic substrate can be initially
             hydrolyzed by endoglucanases at random locations producing oligomeric
             intermediates. These intermediates are then substrates for exo-splitting
             glucanases such as cellobiohydrolase to produce cellobiose from the ends of the
             cellulose polymer. Cellobiose is a water-soluble 1,4-linked dimer of glucose.
             Finally, cellobiase cleaves cellobiose to yield glucose. The efficiency (e.g., time
             to hydrolyze and/or completeness of hydrolysis) of this process depends on the
             recalcitrance of the cellulosic material.
             LIGNIN DERIVED PRODUCTS
             [000287]    The spent biomass (e.g., spent lignocellulosic material) from
             lignocellulosic processing by the methods described are expected to have a high
                                                   79

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             lignin content and in addition to being useful for producing energy through
             combustion in a Co-Generation plant, may have uses as other valuable products.
             The spent biomass can be a by-product from the process of producing the
             hydroxyl-carboxylic acid monomer. For example, the lignin can be used as
             captured as a plastic, or it can be synthetically upgraded to other plastics. In some
             instances, it can also be converted to lignosulfonates, which can be utilized as
             binders, dispersants, emulsifiers or as sequestrants.
             [000288]     When used as a binder, the lignin or a lignosulfonate can, e.g., be
             utilized in coal briquettes, in ceramics, for binding carbon black, for binding
             fertilizers and herbicides, as a dust suppressant, in the making of plywood and
             particle board, for binding animal feeds, as a binder for fiberglass, as a binder in
             linoleum paste and as a soil stabilizer.
             [000289]     As a dispersant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g.,
             concrete mixes, clay and ceramics, dyes and pigments, leather tanning and in
             gypsum board.
             [000290]     As an emulsifier, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in
             asphalt, pigments and dyes, pesticides and wax emulsions.
             [000291]     As a sequestrant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in
             micro-nutrient systems, cleaning compounds and water treatment systems, e.g.,
             for boiler and cooling systems.
             [000292]     For energy production lignin generally has a higher energy content
             than holocellulose (cellulose and hemicellulose) since it contains more carbon
             than homocellulose. For example, dry lignin can have an energy content of
             between about 11,000 and 12,500 BTU per pound, compared to 7,000 an 8,000
             BTU per pound of holocellulose. As such, lignin can be densified and converted
             into briquettes and pellets for burning. For example, the lignin can be converted
             into pellets by any method described herein. For a slower burning pellet or
             briquette, the lignin can be crosslinked, such as applying a radiation dose of
             between about 0.5 Mrad and 5 Mrad. Crosslinking can make a slower burning
             form factor. The form factor, such as a pellet or briquette, can be converted to a
             "synthetic coal" or charcoal by pyrolyzing in the absence of air, e.g., at between
             400 and 950 'C. Prior to pyrolyzing, it can be desirable to crosslink the lignin to
             maintain structural integrity.
                                                    80

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             [000293]    Co-generation using spent biomass is described in International App.
             No. PCT/US2014/021634 filed March 7, 2014, the entire disclosure therein is
             herein incorporated by reference.
             [000294]    Lignin derived products can also be combined with poly
             hydroxycarboxylic acid and poly hydroxycarboxylic acid derived products. (e.g.,
             poly hydroxycarboxylic acid that has been produced as described herein). For
             example, lignin and lignin derived products can be blended, grafted to or
             otherwise combined and/or mixed with poly hydroxycarboxylic acid. The lignin
             can, for example, be useful for strengthening, plasticizing or otherwise modifying
             the poly hydroxycarboxylic acid.
             SACCHARIFICATION
             [000295]        In order to convert the feedstock to a form that can be readily
             processed, the glucan- or xylan-containing cellulose in the feedstock can be
             hydrolyzed to low molecular weight carbohydrates, such as sugars, by a
             saccharifying agent, e.g., an enzyme or acid, a process referred to as
             saccharification. The low molecular weight carbohydrates can then be used, for
             example, in an existing manufacturing plant, such as a single cell protein plant,
             an enzyme manufacturing plant, or a fuel plant, e.g., an ethanol manufacturing
             facility.
             [000296]        The feedstock can be hydrolyzed using an enzyme, e.g., by
             combining the materials and the enzyme in a solvent, e.g., in an aqueous solution.
             [000297]        Alternatively, the enzymes can be supplied by organisms that
             break down biomass, such as the cellulose and/or the lignin portions of the
             biomass, contain or manufacture various cellulolytic enzymes (cellulases),
             ligninases or various small molecule biomass-degrading metabolites. These
             enzymes may be a complex of enzymes that act synergistically to degrade
             crystalline cellulose or the lignin portions of biomass. Examples of cellulolytic
             enzymes include: endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and cellobiases (beta
             glucosidases).
             [000298]        During saccharification a cellulosic substrate can be initially
             hydrolyzed by endoglucanases at random locations producing oligomeric
             intermediates. These intermediates are then substrates for exo-splitting
             glucanases such as cellobiohydrolase to produce cellobiose from the ends of the
                                                   81

WO 2014/176509                                                                 PCT/US2014/035469
             cellulose polymer. Cellobiose is a water-soluble 1,4-linked dimer of glucose.
             Finally, cellobiase cleaves cellobiose to yield glucose. The efficiency (e.g., time
             to hydrolyze and/or completeness of hydrolysis) of this process depends on the
             recalcitrance of the cellulosic material.
             [000299]    Therefore, the treated biomass materials can be saccharified, generally
             by combining the material and a cellulase enzyme in a fluid medium, e.g., an
             aqueous solution. In some cases, the material is boiled, steeped, or cooked in hot
             water prior to saccharification, as described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577
             Al by Medoff and Masterman, published on April 26, 2012, the entire contents
             of which are incorporated herein.
             [000300]    The saccharification may be done by inoculating a raw sugar mixture
             produced by saccharifying a reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic material to
             produce a hydroxy-carboxylic acid. The hydroxy-carboxylic acid can be
             selected from the group glycolic acid, D-lactic acid, L-lactic acid, D-malic acid,
             L-malic, citric acid and D-tartaric acid, L-tartaric acid, and meso-tartaric acid.
             The raw sugar mixture can be the reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic material
             which was processed by irradiating the lignocellulosic material with an electron
             beam.
             [000301]        The saccharification process can be partially or completely
             performed in a tank (e.g., a tank having a volume of at least 4000, 40,000, or
             500,000 L) in a manufacturing plant, and/or can be partially or completely
             performed in transit, e.g., in a rail car, tanker truck, or in a supertanker or the hold
             of a ship. The time required for complete saccharification will depend on the
             process conditions and the carbohydrate-containing material and enzyme used. If
             saccharification is performed in a manufacturing plant under controlled
             conditions, the cellulose may be substantially entirely converted to sugar, e.g.,
             glucose in about 12-96 hours. If saccharification is performed partially or
             completely in transit, saccharification may take longer.
             [000302]        It is generally preferred that the tank contents be mixed during
             saccharification, e.g., using jet mixing as described in International App. No.
             PCT/US2010/035331, filed May 18, 2010, which was published in English as
             WO 2010/135380 and designated the United States, the full disclosure of which
             is incorporated by reference herein.
                                                     82

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             [000303]        The addition of surfactants can enhance the rate of
             saccharification. Examples of surfactants include non-ionic surfactants, such as a
             Tween@ 20 or Tween 80 polyethylene glycol surfactants, ionic surfactants, or
             amphoteric surfactants.
             [000304]        It is generally preferred that the concentration of the sugar solution
             resulting from saccharification be relatively high, e.g., greater than 40%, or
             greater than 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or even greater than 95% by weight. Water may
             be removed, e.g., by evaporation, to increase the concentration of the sugar
             solution. This reduces the volume to be shipped, and also inhibits microbial
             growth in the solution.
             [000305]        Alternatively, sugar solutions of lower concentrations may be
             used, in which case it may be desirable to add an antimicrobial additive, e.g., a
             broad spectrum antibiotic, in a low concentration, e.g., 50 to 150 ppm. Other
             suitable antibiotics include amphotericin B, ampicillin, chloramphenicol,
             ciprofloxacin, gentamicin, hygromycin B, kanamycin, neomycin, penicillin,
             puromycin, streptomycin. Antibiotics will inhibit growth of microorganisms
             during transport and storage, and can be used at appropriate concentrations, e.g.,
             between 15 and 1000 ppm by weight, e.g., between 25 and 500 ppm, or between
             50 and 150 ppm. If desired, an antibiotic can be included even if the sugar
             concentration is relatively high. Alternatively, other bio-additives with anti
             microbial of preservative properties may be used. Preferably the antimicrobial
             additive(s) are food-grade.
             [000306]        A relatively high concentration solution can be obtained by
             limiting the amount of water added to the carbohydrate-containing material with
             the enzyme. The concentration can be controlled, e.g., by controlling how much
             saccharification takes place. For example, concentration can be increased by
             adding more carbohydrate-containing material to the solution. In order to keep
             the sugar that is being produced in solution, a surfactant can be added, e.g., one
             of those discussed above. Solubility can also be increased by increasing the
             temperature of the solution. For example, the solution can be maintained at a
             temperature of 40-50'C, 60-80'C, or even higher.
                                                    83

WO 2014/176509                                                                  PCT/US2014/035469
             SACCHARIFYING AGENTS
             [000307]        Suitable cellulolytic enzymes include cellulases from species in
             the genera Bacillus, Coprinus, Myceliophthora, Cephalosporium,Scytalidium,
             Penicillium,Aspergillus, Pseudomonas,Humicola, Fusarium,Thielavia,
             Acremonium, Chrysosporium and Trichoderma, especially those produced by a
             strain selected from the species Aspergillus (see, e.g., EP Pub. No. 0 458 162),
             Humicola insolens (reclassified as Scytalidium thermophilum, see, e.g., U.S. Pat.
             No. 4,435,307), Coprinus cinereus, Fusariumoxysporum, Myceliophthora
             thermophila, Meripilusgiganteus, Thielavia terrestris,Acremonium sp.
             (including, but not limited to, A. persicinum,A. acremonium,A. brachypenium,
             A. dichromosporum,A. obclavatum, A. pinkertoniae,A. roseogriseum, A.
             incoloratum, and A. furatum). Preferred strains include Humicola insolens DSM
             1800, Fusariumoxysporum DSM 2672, Myceliophthora thermophila CBS
             117.65, Cephalosporiumsp. RYM-202, Acremonium sp. CBS 478.94,
             Acremonium sp. CBS 265.95, Acremonium persicinum CBS 169.65, Acremonium
             acremonium AHU 9519, Cephalosporiumsp. CBS 535.71, Acremonium
             brachypenium CBS 866.73, Acremonium dichromosporum CBS 683.73,
             Acremonium obclavatum CBS 311.74, Acremonium pinkertoniae CBS 157.70,
             Acremonium roseogriseumCBS 134.56, Acremonium incoloratum CBS 146.62,
             and Acremoniumfuratum CBS 299.70H. Cellulolytic enzymes may also be
             obtained from Chrysosporium, preferably a strain of Chrysosporium
             lucknowense. Additional strains that can be used include, but are not limited to,
             Trichoderma (particularly T. viride, T. reesei, and T. koningii), alkalophilic
             Bacillus (see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 3,844,890 and EP Pub. No. 0 458 162),
             and Streptomyces (see, e.g., EP Pub. No. 0 458 162).
             [000308]        In addition to or in combination to enzymes, acids, bases and other
             chemicals (e.g., oxidants) can be utilized to saccharify lignocellulosic and
             cellulosic materials. These can be used in any combination or sequence (e.g.,
             before, after and/or during addition of an enzyme). For example, strong mineral
             acids can be utilized (e.g. HCl, H 2 SO 4 , H 3 PO 4 ) and strong bases (e.g., NaOH,
             KOH).
             [000309]    In the processes described herein, for example, after saccharification,
             sugars (e.g., glucose and xylose) can be isolated. For example, sugars can be
                                                    84

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             isolated by precipitation, crystallization, chromatography (e.g., simulated moving
             bed chromatography, high pressure chromatography), centrifugation, extraction,
             any other isolation method known in the art, and combinations thereof.
             FERMENTATION
             [000310]     Yeast and Zymomonas bacteria, for example, can be used for
             fermentation or conversion of sugar(s) to alcohol(s). Other microorganisms are
             discussed below. The optimum pH for fermentations is about pH 4 to 7. For
             example, the optimum pH for yeast is from about pH 4 to 5, while the optimum
             pH for Zymomonas is from about pH 5 to 6. Typical fermentation times are
             about 24 to 168 hours (e.g., 24 to 96 hrs.) with temperatures in the range of 20'C
             to 40'C (e.g., 260 C to 40'C), however thermophilic microorganisms prefer higher
             temperatures.
             [000311]     In some embodiments, e.g., when anaerobic organisms are used, at
             least a portion of the fermentation is conducted in the absence of oxygen, e.g.,
             under a blanket of an inert gas such as N 2 , Ar, He, CO 2 or mixtures thereof.
             Additionally, the mixture may have a constant purge of an inert gas flowing
             through the tank during part of or all of the fermentation. In some cases,
             anaerobic condition, can be achieved or maintained by carbon dioxide production
             during the fermentation and no additional inert gas is needed.
             [000312]     In some embodiments, all or a portion of the fermentation process can
             be interrupted before the low molecular weight sugar is completely converted to a
             product (e.g., ethanol). The intermediate fermentation products include sugar and
             carbohydrates in high concentrations. The sugars and carbohydrates can be
             isolated via any means known in the art. These intermediate fermentation
             products can be used in preparation of food for human or animal consumption.
             Additionally or alternatively, the intermediate fermentation products can be
             ground to a fine particle size in a stainless-steel laboratory mill to produce a
             flour-like substance. Jet mixing may be used during fermentation, and in some
             cases saccharification and fermentation are performed in the same tank.
             [000313]         Nutrients for the microorganisms may be added during
             saccharification and/or fermentation, for example, the food-based nutrient
             packages described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0052536, filed July 15, 2011, the
             complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                    85

WO 2014/176509                                                                PCT/US2014/035469
             [000314]      "Fermentation" includes the methods and products that are disclosed
             in International App. No. PCT/US2012/071093 filed December 20, 2012 and
             International App. No. PCT/US2012/071097 filed December 12, 2012, the
             contents of both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
             [000315]      Mobile fermenters can be utilized, as described in International App.
             No. PCT/US2007/074028 (which was filed July 20, 2007, was published in
             English as WO 2008/011598 and designated the United States) and has a U.S.
             issued Patent No. 8,318,453, the contents of which are incorporated herein in its
             entirety. Similarly, the saccharification equipment can be mobile. Further,
             saccharification and/or fermentation may be performed in part or entirely during
             transit.
             FERMENTATION AGENTS
             [000316]      The microorganism(s) used in fermentation can be naturally-occurring
             microorganisms and/or engineered microorganisms. For example, the
             microorganism can be a bacterium (including, but not limited to, e.g., a
             cellulolytic bacterium), a fungus, (including, but not limited to, e.g., a yeast), a
             plant, a protist, e.g., a protozoa or a fungus-like protest (including, but not limited
             to, e.g., a slime mold), or an alga. When the organisms are compatible, mixtures
             of organisms can be utilized.
             [000317]      Suitable fermenting microorganisms have the ability to convert
             carbohydrates, such as glucose, fructose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose,
             oligosaccharides or polysaccharides into fermentation products. Fermenting
             microorganisms include strains of the genus Saccharomyces spp. (including, but
             not limited to, S. cerevisiae (baker's yeast), S. distaticus, S. uvarum), the genus
             Kluyveromyces, (including, but not limited to, K. marxianus, K.fragilis), the
             genus Candida (including, but not limited to, C. pseudotropicalis,and C.
             brassicae), Pichiastipitis (a relative of Candida shehatae), the genus Clavispora
             (including, but not limited to, C. lusitaniae and C. opuntiae), the genus
             Pachysolen (including, but not limited to, P. tannophilus), the genus
             Bretannomyces (including, but not limited to, e.g., B. clausenii (Philippidis, G. P.,
             1996, Cellulose bioconversion technology, in Handbook on Bioethanol:
             Production and Utilization, Wyman, C.E., ed., Taylor & Francis, Washington,
             DC, 179-212)). Other suitable microorganisms include, for example, Zymomonas
                                                     86

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             mobilis, Clostridium spp. (including, but not limited to, C. thermocellum
             (Philippidis, 1996, supra), C. saccharobutylacetonicum,C. tyrobutyricum C.
             saccharobutylicum,C. Puniceum, C. beijernckii, and C. acetobutylicum),
             Moniliella spp. (including but not limited to M. pollinis,M. tomentosa, M.
             madida, M. nigrescens,M. oedocephali, M. megachiliensis), Yarrowia lipolytica,
             Aureobasidium sp., Trichosporonoidessp., Trigonopsis variabilis,Trichosporon
             sp., Moniliellaacetoabutanssp., Typhula variabilis,Candida magnoliae,
             Ustilaginomycetes sp., Pseudozyma tsukubaensis, yeast species of genera
             Zygosaccharomyces, Debaryomyces, Hansenula and Pichia, and fungi of the
             dematioid genus Torula (e.g., T.corallina).
             [000318]    Many such microbial strains are publicly available, either
             commercially or through depositories such as the ATCC (American Type Culture
             Collection, Manassas, Virginia, USA), the NRRL (Agricultural Research Service
             Culture Collection, Peoria, Illinois, USA), or the DSMZ (Deutsche Sammlung
             von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen GmbH, Braunschweig, Germany), to
             name a few.
             [000319]    Commercially available yeasts include, for example, Red
             Star@/Lesaffre Ethanol Red (available from Red Star/Lesaffre, USA), FALI*
             (available from Fleischmann's Yeast, a division of Burns Philip Food Inc., USA),
             SUPERSTART* (available from Alltech, now Lalemand), GERT STRAND*
             (available from Gert Strand AB, Sweden) and FERMOL* (available from DSM
             Specialties).
             DISTILLATION
             [000320]    After fermentation, the resulting fluids can be distilled using, for
             example, a "beer column" to separate ethanol and other alcohols from the
             majority of water and residual solids. The vapor exiting the beer column can be,
             e.g., 35% by weight ethanol and can be fed to a rectification column. A mixture
             of nearly azeotropic (92.5%) ethanol and water from the rectification column can
             be purified to pure (99.5%) ethanol using vapor-phase molecular sieves. The
             beer column bottoms can be sent to the first effect of a three-effect evaporator.
             The rectification column reflux condenser can provide heat for this first effect.
             After the first effect, solids can be separated using a centrifuge and dried in a
             rotary dryer. A portion (25%) of the centrifuge effluent can be recycled to
                                                    87

WO 2014/176509                                                                  PCT/US2014/035469
             fermentation and the rest sent to the second and third evaporator effects. Most of
             the evaporator condensate can be returned to the process as fairly clean
             condensate with a small portion split off to waste water treatment to prevent
             build-up of low-boiling compounds.
             CONVEYING SYSTEMS
             [000321] Various conveying systems can be used to convey the feedstock
             materials, for example, to a vault and under an electron beam in a vault.
             Exemplary conveyors are belt conveyors, pneumatic conveyors, screw conveyors,
             carts, trains, trains or carts on rails, elevators, front loaders, backhoes, cranes,
             various scrapers and shovels, trucks, and throwing devices can be used. For
             example, vibratory conveyors can be used in various processes described herein,
             for example, as disclosed in International App. No. PCT/US2013/064332 filed
             Oct. 10, 2013, the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.
                                             OTHER EMBODIMENTS
             [000322]     Any material, processes or processed materials described herein can
             be used to make products and/or intermediates such as composites, fillers,
             binders, plastic additives, adsorbents and controlled release agents. The methods
             can include densification, for example, by applying pressure and heat to the
             materials. for example, composites can be made by combining fibrous materials
             with a resin or polymer (e.g., PLA). For example, radiation cross-linkable resin
             (e.g., a thermoplastic resin, PLA, and/or PLA derivatives) can be combined with
             a fibrous material to provide a fibrous material/cross-linkable resin combination.
             Such materials can be, for example, useful as building materials, protective
             sheets, containers and other structural materials (e.g., molded and/or extruded
             products). Absorbents can be, for example, in the form of pellets, chips, fibers
             and/or sheets. Adsorbents can be used, for example, as pet bedding, packaging
             material or in pollution control systems. Controlled release matrices can also be
             the form of, for example, pellets, chips, fibers and or sheets. The controlled
             release matrices can, for example, be used to release drugs, biocides, fragrances.
             For example, composites, absorbents and control release agents and their uses are
             described in International Application No. PCT/US2006/010648, filed March 23,
                                                      88

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             2006, and U.S. Patent No. 8,074,910 filed November 22, 2011, the entire
             disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.
             [000323]     In some instances the biomass material is treated at a first level to
             reduce recalcitrance, e.g., utilizing accelerated electrons, to selectively release
             one or more sugars (e.g., xylose). The biomass can then be treated to a second
             level to release one or more other sugars (e.g., glucose). Optionally the biomass
             can be dried between treatments. The treatments can include applying chemical
             and biochemical treatments to release the sugars. For example, a biomass
             material can be treated to a level of less than about 20 Mrad (e.g., less than about
             15 Mrad, less than about 10 Mrad, less than about 5 Mrad, less than about 2
             Mrad) and then treated with a solution of sulfuric acid, containing less than 10%
             sulfuric acid (e.g., less than about 9%, less than about 8%, less than about 7%,
             less than about 6%, less than about 5%, less than about 4%, less than about 3%,
             less than about 2%, less than about 1%, less than about 0.75%, less than about
             0.50 %, less than about 0.25%) to release xylose. Xylose, for example, that is
             released into solution, can be separated from solids and optionally the solids
             washed with a solvent/solution (e.g., with water and/or acidified water).
             [000324]     Optionally, the Solids can be dried, for example, in air and/or under
             vacuum optionally with heating (e.g., below about 15 0 C, below about 120           C)
             to a water content below about 25 wt. % (below about 20 wt. %,below about 15
             wt. %,below about 10 wt. %,below about 5 wt. %). The solids can then be
             treated with a level of less than about 30 Mrad (e.g., less than about 25 Mrad, less
             than about 20 Mrad, less than about 15 Mrad, less than about 10 Mrad, less than
             about 5 Mrad, less than about 1 Mrad or even not at all) and then treated with an
             enzyme (e.g., a cellulase) to release glucose. The glucose (e.g., glucose in
             solution) can be separated from the remaining solids. The solids can then be
             further processed, for example, utilized to make energy or other products (e.g.,
             lignin derived products).
                                                    89

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             EXAMPLES
             L- Lactic acid Production from Saccharified Corncob in Lactobacillus
             species.
             Material and Methods
             Lactic acid producing strains tested:
             The Lactic acid producing stains that were tested are listed in Table 2
             Table 2: Lactic acid producing strains tested
            NRRL B-441      Lactobacilluscasei
            NRRL B-445      Lactobacillus rhamnosus
            NRRL B-763      Lactobacillusdelbrueckii subspecies delbrueckii
            ATCC 8014       Lactobacillusplantarum
            ATCC 9649       Lactobacillusdelbrueckii subspecies delbrueckii
            B-4525          Lactobacillusdelbrueckii subspecies lactis
            B-4390          Lactobacilluscormiformis subspecies torquens
            B-227           Lactobacilluspentosus
            B-4527          Lactobacillusbrevis
            ATCC 25745      Pediococcuspentosaceus
            NRRL 395        Rhizopus oryz ae
            CBS 112.07      Rhizopus
                                  iforyzaeOr'
            CBS 127.08      RhiZopus oryzae
            CBS 396.95      Rhizopus  cryzae
             Seed Culture
             [000325]    Cells from a frozen (-80 'C) cell bank were cultivated in propagation
             medium (BD DifcoTM Lactobacilli MRS Broth) at 37 'C, with 150 rpm stirring
             for 20 hours. This seed culture was transferred to a 1.2L (or optionally a 20L)
             bioreactors charged with media as describe below.
                                                    90

WO 2014/176509                                                                PCT/US2014/035469
             Main Culture Media
             [000326]       All media included saccharified corncob that had been hammer milled
             and irradiated with about 35 Mrad of electron beam irradiation. For example,
             saccharified corn cob can be prepared as described in in International App. No.
             PCT/US2014/021796 filed March 7, 2014, the entire disclosure of which is
             herein incorporated by reference.
             [000327]        Experiments with various additional media components were also
             conducted using lactobacilluscasei NRRL B-44 as the lactic acid producing
             organism. A 1.2L bioreactor with 0.7 L of culture volume was used. A 1 % of 20
             hour-cultured seed of lactobacilluscasei NRRL B-441 was inoculated. No
             aeration was utilized. The temperature was maintained at about 37 'C. Antifoam
             204 was also added (0.1%, 1ml/L) at the beginning of the fermentation.
             [000328]       The experiments are summarized in Table 3. The media components;
             initial glucose concentration, nitrogen sources, yeast extract concentration,
             calcium carbonate, metals and inoculum size, were tested for lactic acid yield or
             lactic acid production rate. In addition to media components, the physical
             conditions; temperature, agitation, autoclave time and heating (no-autoclave)
             were tested for lactic acid yield. For these media components and physical
             reaction conditions the ranges tested, the preferred ranges for producing some
             lactic acid and the most preferred ranges are indicated in Table 3.
             Table 3 L-Lactic acid production in bioreactor with B-441
             Media               Test           Range-Tested       Range-          Range Optiona
             Component           Parameter
             Initial glucose     Lactic acid    33-85 g/L          33-75 g/L       33 - 52 g/L
             concentration       concentration
             Nitrogen Sources    Lactic acid    Yeast extract,     Yeast extract,  Yeast extract
             Tested              concentration  Malt extract, Corn Tryptone,
                                                steep, Tryptone,   Peptone
                                                Peptone
             Yeast Extract   C   Lactic acid    0-10 g/L           2.5-10 g/L      2.5 g/L
                                 concentration
             Calcium             Lactic acid    0-7 wt.%/vol.%     3- 7 %          5 wt.%/vol.%
             carbonate           concentration                     wt.%/vol.%
             Metal Solutions     Lactic acid    With or without    With or         Without metals
                                 concentration  metals             without metals
                                                     91

WO 2014/176509                                                                       PCT/US2014/035469
             Minor               Lactic acid        With or without       With or         Without minor
             components:         concentration      minor components      without minor    components
             sodium acetate
              polysorbate 80,                                             components
             dipotassium
             hydrogen
             phosphate,
             triammonium
             citrate
             Inoculum Size       Lactic acid        0.1-5 vol. %          1 - 5 vol. %     1 vol. %
                                 production rate
             Physical            Test               Range-Tested          Range-           Range -alternative
             Condition           Parameter                                optiona
             Temperature         Lactic acid        27-47  0 C            27- 42 0 C       33-37  0 C
                                 concentration
             Agitation (in       Lactic acid        50-400 rpm            50-400 rpm       100-300 rpm
             1.2L reactor)       concentration
             Autoclave Time      Lactic acid        25min-145min          25min-145min    25 min
                                 concentration
             Heating (no         Lactic acid        50-70' C              50-70' C         50 - 70  0 C
             autoclave)          concentration
             PRanges produced a yield of at least 80% based on added sugars.
             bOptional ranges produced close to 100% lactic acid (e.g., between about 90 and 100%, between
             about 95 and 100%). 'Fluka brand yeast extract was used.
             [000329]      The optional ranges were utilized for subsequent tests and the media is
             referred to as the optional media and the physical conditions are referred to
             optional physical conditions herein.
             Results with saccharified corn cob
             [000330]      A 1.2 L bioreactor charged with 0.7 L of media (Saccharified corncob,
             2.5 g/L yeast extract). The media and bioreactor vessel were autoclaved for 25
             min and no additional heating was used for sterilization. In addition a 20L
             bioreactor was charged with 10 L of media. For sterilization the media was
             stirred at 200 rpm while heating at 80 0 C for 10 min. When the media was cool
             (about 37     C) the bioreactors were inoculated with 1 vol. % of 20-hour-culture.
             The fermentations were conducted under the physical conditions (37 'C, 200 rpm
             stirring). No aeration was utilized. The pH remained between 5 and 6 using 5%
             (wt. %/vol throughout the fermentation. The temperature was maintained at about
                                                         92

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             37 'C. Antifoam 204 was also added (0. Ivol. %) at the beginning of the
             fermentation. Several Lactobacilluscasei strains were tested (NRRL B-441,
             NRRL B-445, NRRL B-763 and ATCC 8014).
             [000331]     A plot of the sugar consumption and lactic acid production for the
             NRRL B-441 strain is shown in the 1.2 L bioreactor is shown in FIG. 7. After
             two days all of the glucose was consumed, while xylose was not consumed.
             Fructose and cellobiose were also consumed. Lactic acid was produced at a
             concentration of about 42 g/L. The consumed glucose, fructose and cellobiose
             (total 42 g/L) were about to same as produced lactic acid.
             [000332]     Similar data from results of the fermentation using the NRRL B-441
             strain in the 20L bioreactor are shown in FIG. 8. Glucose was completely
             consumed while xylose was not significantly consumed. Lactic acid was
             produced at a final concentration of about 47-48 g/L.
             [000333]     Enantiomer analysis is summarized for all strains tested in Table 4.
             Lactobacilluscasei (NRRL-B-441) and L. rhamnosus (B-445) produced more
             than 96 % L-lactic acid. L. delbrueckii sub. Delbrueckii (B-763) showed over
             99% of the D-Lactic acid. The L. plantarum (ATCC 8014) showed an
             approximate equal mixture of each enantiomer.
             Table 4: Ratio of L and D-Lactic Acid for Various Fermenting Organisms
                Strain                               L-Lactic Acid       D-Lactic Acid
                 L. casei (B-441)                    96.1                3.9
                L. rhamnosus (B-445)                 98.3                1.7
                L. delbrueckii sub. Delbrueckii      0.6                 99.4
                (B-763)
                L. plantarum (ATCC 8014)             52.8                47.2
             Comparison Example: Polymerization of lactic acid
             [000334]     A 250ml three-necked flask was equipped with a mechanical stirrer
             and a condenser that was connected with a vacuum system through a cold trap.
             100 grams of 90 wt.% aqueous L-lactic acid was dehydrated at 150C, first at
             atmospheric pressure for 2 hours, then at a reduced pressure of 90mmHg for 2
             hours, and finally under a pressure of 20mmHg for another 4 hours. A clear
             viscous liquid of oligo (L-lactic acid) was formed quantitatively.
                                                   93

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             [000335]     400mg (0.4 wt. %) of both tin(II) chloride dihydrate and para-toluene
             sulfonic acid was acid was added to the mixture and further heated tol 80' C for 5
             hours at 8mmHg. With the reaction proceeding, the system became more viscous
             gradually. The reaction mixture was cooled down and then further heated at 1500
             C in a vacuum oven another 19 hours.
             [000336]     Samples were taken from the reaction mixture after 2 hours (A), 5
             hours (B) and 24 hours (C) and the molecular weight was calculated using GPC
             using polystyrene standards in THF. FIG. 9 is a plot of GPC data for samples A,
             B and C.
                         Reaction        Molecular     Molecular     Degree of         Retention
                         time (hours)    Weight,       Weight, Mw    Polymerization    Time
                                         M"
                  A             2           4430           9630             62            20.3
                  B             5           7350          18100            102            19.3
                  C            24           18800         37500            261            18.3
             [000337]     Note that after 24 hours the degree of polymerization is -250 units, far
             below the polymerization conversion achieved in the inventive process which
             uses a thin film polymerization/devolatilization device.
             [000338]     Other than in the examples herein, or unless otherwise expressly
             specified, all of the numerical ranges, amounts, values and percentages, such as
             those for amounts of materials, elemental contents, times and temperatures of
             reaction, ratios of amounts, and others, in the following portion of the
             specification and attached claims may be read as if prefaced by the word "about"
             even though the term "about" may not expressly appear with the value, amount,
             or range. Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the numerical parameters
             set forth in the following specification and attached claims are approximations
             that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the
             present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application
             of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical
                                                    94

WO 2014/176509                                                              PCT/US2014/035469
             parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported
             significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.
             [000339]     Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting
             forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations, the numerical values
             set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any
             numerical value, however, inherently contains error necessarily resulting from the
             standard deviation found in its underlying respective testing measurements.
             Furthermore, when numerical ranges are set forth herein, these ranges are
             inclusive of the recited range end points (i.e., end points may be used). When
             percentages by weight are used herein, the numerical values reported are relative
             to the total weight.
             [000340]     Also, it should be understood that any numerical range recited herein
             is intended to include all sub-ranges subsumed therein. For example, a range of
             "1 to 10" is intended to include all sub-ranges between (and including) the recited
             minimum value of 1 and the recited maximum value of 10, that is, having a
             minimum value equal to or greater than 1 and a maximum value of equal to or
             less than 10. The terms "one," "a," or "an" as used herein are intended to include
             "at least one" or "one or more," unless otherwise indicated.
             [000341]     Any patent, publication, or other disclosure material, in whole or in
             part, that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein
             only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing
             definitions, statements, or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure.
             As such, and to the extent necessary, the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein
             supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any
             material, or portion thereof, that is said to be incorporated by reference herein,
             but which conflicts with existing definitions, statements, or other disclosure
             material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict
             arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.
             [000342]     While this invention has been particularly shown and described with
             references to most preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those
             skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein
             without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended
             claims.
                                                    95

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             CLAIMS
             1.       A method of making a polymer or copolymer, the method comprising
             evaporating water as it is formed during condensation of a hydroxy-carboxylic
             acid polymer as it traverses a surface of a thin film evaporator.
             2.       The method of claim 1, where the thin film evaporator comprises a thin
             film polymerization/devolatilization device
             3.       The method of claim 2, where an extruder is fluid communication with
             the thin film polymerization/devolatilization device and the effluent of the
             extruder is the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid polymer or effluent of the extruder
             is recycled to the thin film evaporator.
             4.       The method of claim 3, where the extruder is a twin screw extruder.
             5.       The method of any one of the above claims wherein the hydroxy
             carboxylic oligomer is derived from the monomer group consisting of glycolic
             acid, D-lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid, D-malic acid, L-malic acid, citric acid, L
             tartaric acid and D-tartaric acid and mixtures thereof.
             6.       The method of claim 5, wherein the hydroxy-carboxylic acid is D-lactic
             acid and/or L-lactic acid.
             7.       The method of any one of claims 1-6, where at least a part of the thin film
             evaporator operates at a temperature of 100 to 260'C.
             8.       The method of any one of claims 1-7, where at least a part of the thin film
             evaporator operates at a pressure of 0.0001 torr or lower.
             9.       The method of any one of the claims 2- 8, where prior to transferring the
             poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid to a thin film polymerization/devolatilization
             device or during operation of the thin film polymerization/ devolatilization device
             a catalyst deactivator and/or stabilizer agent is added.
             10.      The method of any one of the claims 2- 8, where cyclic dimers derived
             from hydroxy-carboxylic acid is less than 5 weight percent based on the total
             mass of the hydroxy-carboxylic monomers, oligomers and polymers.
                                                   96

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             11.     The method of any one of claims 2-10, where an aliphatic or aromatic
             dicarboxylic acid and an aliphatic or aromatic diol is added just prior to
             transferring the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid to the thin film
             polymerization/devolatilization device.
             12.     The method of claim 11, where the mole ratio of the aliphatic or aromatic
             dicarboxylic acid to the aliphatic or aromatic diol is 0.95:1 to 1.05:1.
             13.     The method of claim 11 or 12, where the mole ratio of the sum of the
             aliphatic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid and the aliphatic or aromatic diol to the
             hydroxy-carboxylic acid monomer of the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid is 0.1 or
             less.
             14.     The method of claim 11 or 12, where the mole ratio of the sum of the
             aliphatic or aromatic dicarboxylic acid and the aliphatic or aromatic diol to the
             hydroxy-carboxylic acid monomer of the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid 0.05 or
             less.
             15.     The method of any one of the claims 1-14, where the polymerization
             catalyst is selected from the group consisting of protonic acids, H 3PO 4, H 2SO 4 ,
             methane sulfonic acid, p-toluene sulfonic acid, polymerically supported sulfonic
             acid, metals, Mg, Al, Ti, Zn, Sn, metal oxides, TiO2, ZnO, GeO 2 , ZrO 2 , SnO,
             SnO 2, Sb 20 3, metal halides, ZnCl 2, SnCl 2 , SnC14 , Mn(AcO) 2 , Fe2(LA) 3 ,
             Co(AcO) 2, Ni(AcO) 2, Cu(OA) 2, Zn(LA) 2 , Y(OA) 3, Al(i-PrO) 3, Ti(BuO) 4 ,
             TiO(acac) 2, (Bu) 2SnO, Sn(II)octoate, Li carbonate, Zn diacetate dehydrate, Ti
             tetraisopropoxide, potassium carbonate, tin powder, solvates of any of these and
             mixtures of any of these.
             16.     The method of any one of claims 2-8, where at least a part of the thin film
             polymerization/ devolatilization device operates at a pressure of less than about
             0.001 torr.
             17.     The method of any one of claims 2-8, where at least a part of the thin film
             polymerization/ devolatilization device operates at a pressure of less than about
             0.01 torr.
                                                    97

WO 2014/176509                                                             PCT/US2014/035469
             18.      The method of any one of claims 2-8, where at least a part of the thin film
             polymerization/ devolatilization device operates at a pressure of less than about
             0.1 torr.
             19.      The method of any one of claims 2-8, where at least a part of the thin film
             polymerization/ devolatilization device operates at a pressure of less than about 1
             torr.
             20.      The method of any one of claims 1-19, further comprising branching or
             cross linking the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid.
             21.      The method of claim 20, wherein a branching or cross linking agent is
             utilized to cross link the polymer and the cross-linking agent selected from the
             group consisting of 5,5'-bis(oxepane-2-one)(bis- r -caprolactone)), spiro-bis
             dimethylene carbonate, peroxides, dicumyl peroxide, benzoyl peroxide,
             unsaturated alcohols, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, 2-butene-1,4-diol, unsaturated
             anhydrides, maleic anhydride, saturated epoxides, glycidyl methacrylate,
             irradiation and combinations of these.
             22.      The method of any one of claims 1-19, wherein the poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acid is blended with a second polymer either when the poly hydroxy
             carboxylic acid is transferred to the thin film polymerization/devolatilization
             device or after the thin film polymerization/devolatilization device.
             23.      The method of claim 22, wherein the second polymer is selected from the
             group consisting of polyglycols, polyvinyl acetate, polyolefins, styrenic resins,
             polyacetals, poly(meth)acrylates, polycarbonate, polybutylene succinate,
             polyesters, polyurethanes, natural rubber, polybutadiene, neoprene, silicone, other
             poly hydroxy carboxylic acids, and combinations of these.
             24.      The method of any one of claims 1-23, comprising combining the poly
             hydroxy-carboxylic acid with fillers.
             25.      The method of claim 24, wherein the filler is selected from the group
             consisting of silicates, layered silicates, polymer and organically modified
             layered silicate, synthetic mica, carbon, carbon fibers, glass fibers, boric acid,
             talc, montmorillonite, clay, starch, corn starch, wheat starch, cellulose fibers,
                                                    98

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             paper, rayon, non-woven fibers, wood flours, whiskers of potassium titanate,
             whiskers of aluminum borate, 4,4'-thiodiphenol, glycerol and mixtures of these.
             26.     The method of any one of claims 1-25, further comprising combining the
             poly hydroxyl-carboxylic acid with a dye or pigment.
             27.     The method of claim 26, wherein the dye is selected from the group
             consisting of blue3, blue 356, brown 1, orange 29, violet 26, violet 93, yellow 42,
             yellow 54, yellow 82 and combinations of these.
             28.     The method of any one of claims 1-27, further comprising combining the
             poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid with a fragrance.
             29.     The method of claim 28, wherein the fragrance is selected from the group
             consisting of wood, evergreen, redwood, peppermint, cherry, strawberry, peach,
             lime, spearmint, cinnamon, anise, basil, bergamot, black pepper, camphor,
             chamomile, citronella, eucalyptus, pine, fir, geranium, ginger, grapefruit, jasmine,
             juniper berry, lavender, lemon, mandarin, marjoram, musk, myrrh, orange,
             patchouli, rose, rosemary, sage, sandalwood, tea tree, thyme, wintergreen, ylang
             ylang, vanilla, new car or mixtures of these fragrances.
             30.     The method of claims 28 or 29, wherein the fragrances are combined with
             the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid in an amount between about 0.005 % by
             weight and about 20 % by weight ( e.g., between about 0.1 % and about 5 wt. %,
             between about 0.25 wt.% and about 2.5 %).
             31.     The method of any one of claims 1-31, wherein converting further
             includes blending the poly hydroxy-carboxylic acid with a plasticizer.
             32.     The method of claim 31, wherein plasticizer is selected from the group
             consisting of triacetin, tributyl citrate, polyethylene glycol, acetic ester of
             monoglyceride, diethyl bishydroxymethyl malonate and mixtures of these.
             33. The method of claim 9, where the stabilizing agent is selected from the group
             consisting of anhydrides, phosphites, polycarboxylic acids, polyamines, silica,
             functionalized silica, alumina, aluminosilicates, clays, functionalized clays and
             mixtures of these.
                                                     99

WO 2014/176509                                                               PCT/US2014/035469
             34. The method of claim 33, where the polycarboxylic acid is a poly methacrylic
             acid.
             35.   The method of claim 11 and claims 33 and 34, comprising removing the
             deactivated/stabilized catalyst prior to, during or after the thin film
             polymerization/ devolatilization device.by a filtration device.
             36. The method of claim 11 and claims 33 - 35, comprising removing the
             deactivated/stabilized catalyst by a filtration device.
             37.   The method of claim 36, where the filtration device is in fluid
             communication with the thin film polymerization/ devolatilization device.
             38. The method of any one of claims 2-8, where at least a part of the thin film
             polymerization/ devolatilization device operates at a pressure of from about
             0.0001 to about 100 torr.
             39. The method of any one of claims 2-8, where at least a part of the thin film
             polymerization/ devolatilization device operates at a pressure of from about 0.001
             to about 50 torr.
             40. The method of any one of claims 2-8, wherein the hydroxy-carboxylic
             oligomer is derived from the monomer group consisting of glycolic acid, D-lactic
             acid and/or L-lactic acid, beta-hydroxy beta-methylbutyric acid, 4-hydroxy-4
             methylpentanoic acid, hydroxybutyric acid, 2-hydroxybutyric acid, beta
             hydroxybutyric acid, gamma-hydroxybutyric acid 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid, 3
             hydroxypentanoic acid, 3-hydroxypropionic acid alpha, beta, gamma or delta
             hydroxyvaleric acid and mixtures thereof.
                                                  100

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
