                                          ABSTRACT
  Actuation and control of the deployment of a polymeric memory-shape material on a
  wellbore device on a downhole tool may be accomplished by treating a compacted or
  compressed polymeric memory-shape material with an optional deployment fluid to
5 lower its Tg and/or decrease its rigidity, thereby softening the polymeric shape-memory
  material at a given temperature and triggering its expansion or recovery at a lower
  temperature. Recovering the polymeric shape-memory material may occur by its being
  exposed to a particular temperature range. Alternatively, the deployment of the
  compacted or com pressed polymeric memory-shape material may be prevented or
0 inhibited by shielding the material with an environment of a fluid that does not
  substantially lower its Tg, decrease its rigidity or both, and then subsequently contacting
  the material with a deployment fluid. The deployment fluid may be removed during the
  method.

                                                           19
    I .00OE9-                                                                       E-1.0OOE9
    1.OQOE8-i          Glass State                Transition State    Rubber State  1OOQEB
o   1.OQOE7-1.00h
                                     II
  0
    1.0 0E5-%q-                                                                         .0E
       10000     . . ~  ....- r    f    '  -                                          1O00
            40.0              60.0        80.0      100.0       120.0  140.0      160.0
                                               temperature ('C)
                                                       FIG. 1

                                                 1
  PREVENTION, ACTUATION AND CONTROL OF DEPLOYMENT OF MEMORY-SHAPE
                         POLYMER FOAM-BASED EXPANDABLES
 [0001] This specification is a divisional of AU2014205591, the contents of which are
 incorporated herein by reference. The reader is directed to that earlier specification for
 aspects described herein but not claimed.
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
 [0001A] The present invention relates to devices used in oil and gas well-bores employing
 shape-memory materials that remain in an altered geometric state during run-in; once the
 devices are in place downhole and are exposed to a given temperature at a given amount
 of time, the devices attempt to return to their original geometric position prior to alteration.
 More particularly, the present invention relates to such devices where the Tg and/or its
 rigidity decrease by optionally using a deployment fluid or which deployment fluid may be
 removed from contact with the devices.
                                 TECHNICAL BACKGROUND
[0002] Various methods of filtration, wellbore isolation, production control, wellbore
lifecycle management, and wellbore construction are known in the art. The use of shaped
memory materials in these applications have been disclosed for oil and gas exploitation.
Shape Memory Materials are smart materials that have the ability to return from a
deformed or compressed state (temporary shape) to their original (permanent) shape
induced by an external stimulus or trigger (e.g. temperature change). In addition to
temperature change, the shape memory effect of these materials may also be triggered by
an electric or magnetic field, light, contact with a particular fluid or a change in pH. Shape
memory polymers (SMPs) cover a wide property range from stable to biodegradable, from
soft to hard, and from elastic to rigid, depending on the structural units that constitute the
SMP. SMPs include thermoplastic and thermoset (covalently cross-linked) polymeric
materials. SMPs are known to be able to store multiple shapes in memory.
[0003] Dynamic Mechanical Analysis (DMA), also called dynamic mechanical thermal
analysis (DMTA) or dynamic thermomechanical analysis is a technique used to study and
characterize SMP materials. It is most useful for observing the viscoelastic nature of these
polymers. The sample deforms under
1001953962

                                            2
 a load. From this, the stiffness of the sample may be determined, and the
 sample modulus may be calculated. By measuring the time lag in the displace
 ment compared to the applied force it is possible to determine the damping
 properties of the material. The time lag is reported as a phase lag, which is an
 angle. The damping is called tan delta, as it is reported as the tangent of the
 phase lag.
  [0004]    Viscoelastic materials such as shape-memory polymers typically exist
 in two distinct states. They exhibit the properties of a glass (high modulus) and
 those of a rubber (low modulus). By scanning the temperature during a DMA
 experiment this change of state, the transition from the glass state to the rubber
 state, may be characterized. It should be noted again that shaped memory may
 be altered by an external stimulus other than temperature change.
  [0005]    The storage modulus E (elastic response) and loss modulus E"
 (viscous response) of a polymer as a function of temperature are shown in FIG.
 1. The nature of the transition state of the shaped memory polymer affects
 material's shape recovery behavior and can be descriptive of the polymer's
 shape recovery. Referring to FIG. 1, the Glass State is depicted as a change in
 storage modulus in response to change in temperature which yields a line of
 constant slope. The Transition State begins when a slope change occurs in the
 storage modulus as the temperature is increased. This is referred to as the Tg
 Onset which in FIG. 1 is approximately 90*C, The Tg Onset is also the point
where shape recovery can begin. T9 for a shape-memory polymer described by
 FIG. 1 is defined as the peak of the loss modulus, which in FIG. 1 is approxi
mately 11 OOC. If the slope's change of the storage modulus were represented
by a vertical line of undefined slope, the material shape recovery would occur
at a specific temperature and transition immediately from the glassy state to the
rubber state. Generally, the more gradual the slope change of the storage
modulus in the transition state, the greater the range of temperatures which
exhibit characteristics of both the glass and rubber states. The transition state
is the area of interest for the SMP material's shape recovery characteristics. It
should also be evident that shape recovery would occur more slowly if stimulus
temperature is closer to the Tg Onset temperature and that shape recovery

                                            3
 would be more rapid as the stimulus temperature approached or exceeded the
 Tg.
  [0006]    One method of making use of the unique behavior of shape-memory
 polymers is via temperature response described above. An example is seen in
 FIG. 2. The finished molded part 100 of shape-memory polymer has a defined
 Tg and Tg Onset. This may be considered an original geometric position of the
 shape-memory material. The part is then heated close to the Tg of the polymer.
 Force is applied to the finished part to reshape the part into a different config
 uration or shape 100'. This may be considered an altered geometric position of
the shape-memory material. The reshaped part 100' is then cooled below the
 shape-memory polymer's Tg Onset and the force removed. The finished part
 100' will now retain the new shape until the temperature of the part is raised to
the Tg Onset at which point shape recovery will begin and the part will attempt
to return to its original shape 100 or if constrained, the part will conform to the
 new constrained shape 100". This shape 100" may be considered the shape
 memory material's recovered geometric position.
  [0007]    U.S. Pat. No. 7,318,481 assigned to Baker Hughes Incorporated
disclosed a self-conforming expandable screen which comprises a thermoset
ting open cell shape-memory polymeric foam. The foam material composition is
formulated to achieve the desired transition temperature slightly below the
anticipated downhole temperature at the depth at which the assembly will be
used. This causes the conforming foam to expand at the temperature found at
the desired depth.
 [0008]     Flawless installation and deployment of memory-shape polymer
foam-based conformable sand screens, packing elements and other downhole
tools are two crucial steps that determine the overall success of the expandable
tool's operation. These steps may be challenging to execute. Therefore, effec
tive prevention of the deployment during the installation, flawless triggering of
the deployment of the expandable elements at the appropriate time, and
reliable control of the rate and the extent of the deployment are essential for
the expandable elements' successful performance would be very desirable and
important. It would be very helpful to discover a method and device for pre-

                                                4
 cisely installing and deploying an element made of shaped memory material at a particular
 location downhole to achieve some desired function of filtration, wellbore isolation,
 production control, wellbore lifecycle management, and wellbore construction. Generally,
the more control and versatility for deploying an element the better, as this gives more
flexibility in device designs and provides the operator more flexibility in designing,
 placement and configuration of the wellbore devices.
 [0008A] Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any
jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded
as relevant, and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
                                            SUMMARY
[0009] In one aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of installing a wellbore
device on a downhole tool in a wellbore, where the method involves introducing the
downhole tool bearing the wellbore device into the wellbore. The wellbore device
comprises at least one polymeric foam shape-memory material having an original glass
transition temperature (Tg) and an original rigidity, where the polymeric foam shape
memory material is in an altered geometric position and the polymeric foam shape
memory material is contacted by brine or oil. The method additionally includes recovering
the polymeric foam shape-memory material from its altered geometric position, in the
absence of a deployment fluid, upon the occurrence of an event selected from the group
consisting of: (1) the polymeric foam shape-memory material reaching a temperature
between about 10 F (-12 0 C) to about 150*F (661C); (2) the polymeric foam shape-memory
material reaching a temperature within 10OF of its Tg; (3) the polymeric foam shape
memory material being exposed to a heating device that increases the temperature above
the material Tg; and combinations thereof.
[0010] The wellbore device may have a property that when the polymeric shape-memory
material is recovered from its altered geometric position, an effect is obtained selected
from the group consisting of restoring the Tg to within at least about 90% of the original Tg,
restoring the rigidity within at least about 25% of the original rigidity, and both.
[0011] There is provided, in one non-limiting form, a wellbore device that includes at least
one polymeric shape-memory material having an original glass transition temperature (Tg)
1001953962

                                                 0
 and an original rigidity. The wellbore device also includes a deployment fluid contacting the
 polymeric shape-memory material in an amount effective to have an effect selected from
the group consisting of lowering the Tg and/or decreasing the rigidity.
 [0012] There is additionally provided in another non-restrictive version a wellbore device
that includes a substrate e.g. a billet and at least one polymeric shape-memory material on
the substrate. The polymeric shape-memory material has an original glass transition
temperature (Tg) and an original rigidity. The polymeric shape-memory material may be a
polyurethane,      a polyurethane    made by       reacting a   polycarbonate   polyol with    a
polyisocyanate, a polyamide, a polyurea, a polyvinyl alcohol, a vinyl alcohol-vinyl ester
copolymer,      a   phenolic   polymer,  a   polybenzimidazole,     polyethylene   oxide/acrylic
acid/methacrylic      acid  copolymer   crosslinked     with  N, N'-methylene-bis-acrylamide,
polyethylene oxide/methacrylic acid/N-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone copolymer crosslinked with
ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, polyethylene oxide/poly(methyl methacrylate)/ N-vinyl-2
pyrrolidone copolymer crosslinked with ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, and combinations
thereof. The wellbore device may additionally include a deployment fluid contacting the
polymeric shape-memory material in an amount effective to have an effect of lowering the
Tg to a second and lower Tg and/or decreasing the original rigidity to a second, decreased
rigidity. The deployment fluid may be optionally removed. The wellbore device has the
property that when substantially all of the deployment fluid is removed from the polymeric
shape-memory material, an effect is obtained that may include restoring the Tg to within at
least about 90% of the original Tg and/or restoring the rigidity within at least about 25% of
the original rigidity.
[0013] In another non-limiting embodiment there is provided a method of installing a
wellbore device on a downhole tool in a wellbore. The method involves introducing the
downhole tool bearing the wellbore device into a wellbore. Again, the wellbore device
includes at least one polymeric shape-memory material having an original Tg and an
original rigidity. The polymeric shape-memory material is in an altered geometric position
and the polymeric shape-memory material is contacted by a first fluid. The first fluid is
substantially removed. The method further involves contacting the polymeric shape
memory material with a deployment fluid in an amount effective to have an effect selected
from the group consisting of lowering the Tg and/or decreasing the rigidity. The deployment
fluid may be optionally removed. The method additionally involves recovering the
1001953962

                                               6
polymeric shape-memory material from its altered geometric position for run-in downhole
to a recovered geometric position.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0014] FIG. 1 is a graph of storage modulus E' (elastic response) (left vertical axis) and
modulus E" (viscous response) (right vertical axis) as a function of temperature for a shape
memory polymers illustrating the change in each modulus as the polymer is heated from
the Glass State through the Transition State to the Rubber State;
[0015] FIG. 2 is a photograph of a finished shape-memory polymer part before it is heated
close to the Tg of the polymer and force is applied to reshape it to a different configuration
or shape and then cooled below the polymer's onset Tg, and finally when the part is heated
to the onset Tg at which point recovery will begin and the part returns to at or near its
original shape;
[0016] FIG. 3 is a schematic illustration of polyurethane chains coupled via hydrogen
bonding, illustrating the crystal structure of polyurethane where the mobility of polymer
chains is limited, therefore the material has higher Tg;
[0017] FIG. 4 is a schematic illustration of the hydrogen bonding network between
polyurethane chains being disrupted by an alcohol deployment fluid ROH, showing that the
polymer chains are decoupled and relatively more mobile; therefore, Tg of the material is
lower and its rigidity is reduced;
[0018] FIG. 5 is a chart of % deployment of compacted samples of the shape-memory
polyurethane-polycarbonate rigid open-cell foam in vegetable oil and water as a function of
time at 650C;
[0019] FIG. 6 is a graph of the storage (E) and loss (E") moduli of the foam samples
immersed in vegetable oil and water as functions of the temperature;
1001953962

                                              7
the glass transition temperature of the polymer immersed in liquid (Tg) corre
sponds to the peak value of the loss modulus E";
 [0020]      FIG. 7 is a graph of the deployment temperatures of compacted
samples of a polymeric foam shape-memory material in water as a function of
temperature;
 [0021]      FIG. 8 is a graph of Tg as a function of % ethylene glycol monobutyl
ether (EGMBE) in an alcohol-based deployment fluid illustrating that the Tg of
the polymeric shape-memory material decreases as the EGMBE content in the
deployment fluid increases; and
 [0022]      FIG. 9 is a chart illustrating that the higher the content of the EGMBE
in an alcohol-based deployment fluid is, the less time it takes to deploy the
polymeric shape-memory material to gauge hole diameter.
                              DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [0023]      It has been discovered that the actuation and control of the deploy
ment of the memory-shape polymer foam-based expandables can be accom
plished by treating the compacted expandables with deployment fluids reducing
the glass transition temperature of the polymer, Tg, softening the polymer mate
rial at a given temperature and, therefore, triggering its expansion. In another
non-limiting embodiment, the expansion of the memory-shape polymer foam
may be accomplished without a deployment fluid (that is, in the absence of
such a specially engineered fluid such as a surfactant or alcohol) by subjecting
the compacted expandable to a certain or particular temperature range. Alter
natively, the deployment of the compacted expandables at a given temperature
may be prevented by shielding the expandables with a screen or shield of the
fluids from the naturally occurring wellbore deployment fluids.
 [0024]     Wellbore devices, such as those used in filtration, wellbore isolation,
production control, lifecycle management, wellbore construction and the like
may be improved by including the shape-memory materials that are run into the
wellbore in altered geometric positions or shapes where the shape-memory
materials change to their respective original or recovered geometric positions or

                                            8
 shapes at different Tg Onsets and/or different slope changes (the slope change
 in the respective transition state from a glass state to a rubber state).
  [0025]     The shape-memory material is made in one non-limiting embodiment
from one or more polyol, such as, but not limited to, a polycarbonate polyol and
 at least one isocyanate, including, but not necessarily limited to, a modified
 diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI), as well as other additives including, but
 not necessarily limited to, blowing agents, molecular cross linkers, chain
 extenders, surfactants, colorants and catalysts.
  [0026]     The shape-memory polyurethane materials are capable of being
geometrically altered, in one non-limiting embodiment compressed substan
tially, e.g., 20-30% of their original volume, at temperatures above their onset
glass transition temperatures (Tg) at which the material becomes soft. While
still being geometrically altered, the material may be cooled down well below its
Onset Tg, or cooled down to room or ambient temperature, and it is able to
 remain in the altered geometric state even after the applied shape altering
force is removed. When the material is heated near or above its Onset T,, it is
capable of recovery to its original geometric state or shape, or close to its
original geometric position; a state or shape which may be called a recovered
geometric position. This is optionally done in the absence of a deployment fluid.
 In other words, the shape-memory material possesses hibernated shape
memory that provides a shape to which the shape-memory material naturally
takes after its manufacturing. The compositions of polyurethanes and other
polymeric shape-memory materials are able to be formulated to achieve
desired onset glass transition temperatures which are suitable for the downhole
applications, where deployment can be controlled for temperatures below
Onset Tg of devices at the depth at which the assembly will be used.
  [0027]     Generally, polyurethane polymer or polyurethane foam is considered
poor in thermal stability and hydrolysis resistance, especially when it is made
from polyether or polyester. It has been previously discovered that the thermal
stability and hydrolysis resistance are significantly improved when the polyure
thane is made from polycarbonate polyols and methylene diphenyl diisocyanate
(MDI) as noted above. The compositions of polyurethane foam herein are able

                                           9
to be formulated to achieve different glass transition temperatures within the
range from 60 0 C to 170*C, which is especially suitable to meet most downhole
application temperature requirements. More details about these particular
polyurethane foams or polyurethane elastomers may be found in U.S. Pat. No.
7,926,565.
 [0028]     Notwithstanding the above, the wellbore devices described herein
and methods of using them may be practiced with a wide variety of polymeric
shape-memory materials including, but not necessarily limited to, polyure
thanes, polyurethanes made by reacting a polycarbonate polyol with a polyiso
cyanate , polyamides, polyureas, polyvinyl alcohols, vinyl alcohol-vinyl ester
copolymers, phenolic polymers, polybenzimidazole, polyethylene oxide/acrylic
acid/methacrylic acid copolymer crosslinked with N, N'-methylene-bis-acryl
amide, polyethylene oxide/methacrylic acid/N-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone copolymer
crosslinked with ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, polyethylene oxide/poly(methyl
methacrylate)/ N-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone copolymer crosslinked with ethylene glycol
dimethacrylate, and combinations thereof. While it is expected that in most
implementations the polymeric shape-memory material will be a cellular foam, it
is also to be understood that other physical structures which are not cellular
foams, for instance an elastomer, may find use as the polymeric shape
memory material. Of course, elastomers may also be cellular in some non
limiting embodiments.
 [0029]     The methods described herein may be performed without the use of
or in the absence of a deployment fluid. The polymeric shape-memory material
may be recovered from its altered geometric position (in one non-limiting em
bodiment a compressed position) at a certain temperature range or tempera
ture window, for instance subjecting or exposing the polymeric shape-memory
material in its altered geometric position to a temperature within a range of
about 10*F (about -12*C) independently to about 150*F (about 660C); alterna
tively a range from about 15'F (about -9'C) independently to about 140*F
(60*C), in another non-restrictive version from about 20*F (-74C) independently
to about 130"F (540C). The term "independently" as used herein with respect to

                                             10
a range means that any lower threshold may be used together with any upper
threshold to create a suitable alternative range for that parameter.
  [0030]     In an alternate embodiment, recovering the polymeric shape-memory
material from its altered geometric position (deployment) may occur when the
polymeric shape-memory material reaches a temperature within 10'F of its Tg,
alternatively within 7*F of its Tg, or in another non-limiting embodiment within
50 F of its Tg.
  [0031]     In a different non-restrictive version, recovering the polymeric shape
memory material from its altered geometric position (deployment) may occur
when the polymeric shape-memory material is exposed to a heating device that
temporarily increases the temperature above the material T.. Suitable heating
devices include, but are not necessarily limited to, catalytic chambers, such as
those described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,708,073, assigned to Baker Hughes Incorpo
rated; electrothermic heaters using wireline or electric submersible pump (ESP)
cables, such as those utilized by Tyco Thermal Controls Co.; and the like.
Other suitable heating devices include, but are not necessarily limited to those
involving microwave heating of the shape-memory material and/or the brine
with which it is contacted, such as described in U.S. Patent Application Publica
tion No. 2012/0012319 A and the like; as well as any devices involving exother
mic reactions (other than combustion) such as galvanic corrosion of Mg powder
when a mixture of Mg/Fe powders is added to the brine, and the like; heating of
conductive pipe on which the screen is mounted using inductive heater; and
heating using strontium sources as described in U.S. Pat. No. 8,127,840, and
the like.
  [0032]    Suitable optional deployment fluids include, but are not necessarily
limited to water, brines, dimethyl sulfoxide, ketones, alcohols, glycols, ethers,
hydrocarbons, and mixtures thereof. Specific examples of suitable polar fluids
include, but are not necessarily limited to, water, brines, methanol, ethanol,
isopropyl alcohol, ethylene glycol monobutyl ether (EGM BE), dimethyl sulfox
ide, and acetone. Specific examples of suitable non-polar fluids include, but are
not necessarily limited to, vegetable oils, mineral oil, LVT 200 oil, and crude oil.
LVT 200 oil is described as hydrotreated distillate of light C9-16 containing

                                               11
cycloparaffinic, isoparaffinic, and normal paraffinic hydrocarbons available from
Delta Drilling Products & Services, LLC. Generally, the more polar a fluid is, the
more likely the fluid will serve as a deployment fluid, although nearly all fluids
may exhibit some benefit as a deployment fluid, depending on the polymeric
shape-memory material being treated. It should be understood that the particu
lar deployment fluid should not be a solvent for the polymeric shape-memory
material. That is, that the polymeric shape-memory material should not be
soluble in the deployment fluid to any appreciable extent.
 [0033]      The amount of the optional deployment fluid effective to affect the Tg
and/or the rigidity is a quantity sufficient to essentially saturate or soak all of the
polymeric shape-memory material that is desired to be affected. Since it is
expected that in most embodiments the polymeric shape-memory material will
be an open cell foam, it may not be physically possible for the deployment fluid
to infiltrate all of the cells, but at least 25 vol%, alternatively at least 50 vol%,
and even at least 90 vol% of the material may be contacted. In the event that
the polymeric shape-memory material is not a foam, or is instead a material
such as an elastomer which is non-cellular, it may be more difficult for the
deployment fluid to reach all of the polymer chains in the material. In non
limiting embodiments, more time may be needed for the deployment fluid to be
more effective or the deployment fluid may need to be altered, for instance a
fluid having relatively smaller molecules to permit the polymer chain structure to
be infiltrated.
 [0034]      One non-limiting theory about how the method and devices de
scribed herein may operate may be seen with reference to FIGS. 3 and 4. As
shown in FIG. 3, polyurethane chains coupled via hydrogen bonding represent
the crystal structure of polyurethane and because the polyurethane chains are
more ordered and regular, the polymer chains are relatively parallel, the crystal
line polyurethane is more rigid. The mobility of polymer chains is limited, there
fore the material has higher Tg. However, if another substance is introduced, for
instance an alcohol, ROH, serving as a deployment fluid, the hydrogen bonding
network between polyurethane chains is disrupted. The polymer chains are
decoupled from one another and relatively more mobile, therefore, the Tg of the

                                          12
material is lower and the rigidity of the material is reduced, for instance to a
second, lower Tg and a second, decreased rigidity, respectively.
 [0035]    It has been discovered that water alone cannot decrease the Tg of
the polycarbonate-polyurethane material significantly enough to deploy a
wellbore device at 115"F (46.1*C), for example. On the other hand, it has been
found that a EGMBE/MeOH/KCI brine deployment fluid can deploy a wellbore
device at this temperature. A non-limiting explanation is that a single water
molecule has a negatively charged oxygen and two positively charged hydro
gen atoms. Therefore it can make two H-bonds simultaneously: in a first
scenario of one with the oxygen atom of carboxyl group of one polymer chain,
the other with an oxygen atom of a carboxyl group of a second polymer chain.
However, it may also have a second scenario of a hydrogen bond to one
carboxyl oxygen on a first polymer chain and a second hydrogen bond to a
hydrogen atom on a urethane link of a second polymer chain. Thus chains 1
and chain 2 are not very effectively decoupled since they are coupled via a
single water molecule. Note however that water molecules can also form H
bonded chains between themselves. Therefore, there may be coupling such as:
Chain 1-water-...-water-Chain 2. This coupling via chains of water molecules
would not be expected to be strong.
 [0036]    Alternatively, ROH alcohols cannot form H-bonds with two chains
simultaneously via the first scenario described above, but may do so via the
second scenario. In another non-limiting embodiment, such coupling may occur
through a glycol or through a bridge such as: Chain 1-ROH-...-ROH-Chain 2,
but would not be expected to be a strong coupling. However, the alkyl portions
of alcohol molecules may serve as the spacers between the polymer chains
and decouple the chains more effectively than water alone. Therefore, the
polymer's Tg in alcohols or more complex (multi-component) deployment fluids
may be lower than that achieved in only water.
 [0037]    In a polyurethane-polycarbonate polymer, in one non-restrictive
version herein, there are many carboxyl oxygen atoms on the chain and fewer
hydrogen atoms of the urethane linkages. Thus, water molecules may make
many Chain 1-water-Chain 2 bridges, while alcohols ROH may make fewer

                                            13
 Chain 1-ROH-Chain 2 bridges since there are relatively fewer hydrogen atoms
 of polyurethane linkages on the chain compared to carboxyl oxygen atoms.
  [0038]     Deployment fluids which cannot disrupt the hydrogen bonding of the
 polymer chains by engaging in hydrogen bonding themselves may still affect
the Tg and rigidity of the polymer chains by simply physically interfering or
 coming between the hydrogen bonding sites of the adjacent polymer chains to
 prevent or inhibit the chains from hydrogen bonding with each other. This non
 limiting understanding may help explain why non-polar materials such as
 hydrocarbons, e.g. oils, can still lower Tg and reduce rigidity of the polymer
 materials. It may thus be understood that there is roughly a spectrum of useful
deployment fluids, where the more polar fluids have more of an effect and the
 less polar fluids have less of an effect.
  [0039]     It should also be realized that the effect of the deployment fluid is
 reversible. That is, when the deployment fluid is removed, the Tg of the poly
 meric shape-memory material as well as the original rigidity are restored. As a
practical matter, it is not possible to remove all of the deployment fluid from the
polymeric shape-memory material once it has been contact thereby or even
saturated therewith. Since the polymeric shape-memory material is porous, and
in one beneficial embodiment is an open cell foam, it is simply physically
difficult to remove all of the deployment fluid once it is contacted with and
introduced into the foam. Thus, in one non-limiting embodiment "substantially
removing all of the deployment fluid" is defined herein as removing at least 90
volume % of the fluid, alternatively at least about 95 vol%, and in another
version at least 99 vol%. Of course, complete removal is a goal. In one method
described herein, substantially all of the deployment fluid is removed.
  [0040]     Thus, it may be understood that with substantially all of the deploy
ment fluid is removed from the polymeric shape-memory material, the effects
may be restoring the T9 to within at least 90% of the original T9 and/or restoring
the rigidity within at least 25% of the original rigidity. Alternatively, the T. is
restored to within at least 95% of the original T9 and/or the rigidity is restored to
within at least 50% of the original rigidity. In another non-restrictive version, the
Tg is restored to within at least 99% of the original Tg and/or the rigidity is

                                            14
 restored to within at least 90% of the original rigidity. Of course, complete resto
 ration of these properties is desirable. Rigidity may be restored when, in a non
 limiting example, the alcohol ROH is removed from the schematic structure
 shown in FIG. 4 and the hydrogen bonding between the polymer chains is
 restored, as schematically shown in FIG., 3.
  [0041]     In one non-limiting embodiment, an optional surfactant may be used
to help recover a deployment fluid from the polymeric shape-memory material.
Suitable surfactants when the deployment fluid being removed include a polar
fluid such as water, brines, dimethyl sulfoxide, ketones, alcohols, glycols and
ethers may include, but not necessarily limited to, anionic, cationic, amphoteric,
and non-ionic surfactants. Suitable surfactants when the deployment fluid being
removed is a non-polar fluid such as an oil, e.g. a plant oil, for instance, olive oil
or sunflower oil, may include, but not necessarily limited to, anionic, cationic,
amphoteric, and non-ionic surfactants
  [0042]     The method described herein may have considerable benefit, In one
non-limiting example, a single wellbore device product having only one type of
polymeric shape-memory material may be used in a variety of applications
requiring deployment of the polymeric shape-memory material from its altered
geometric position to a recovered geometric position at different Tgs simply by
contacting, soaking or saturating the polymeric shape-memory material in its
altered geometric position in a suitable different deployment fluid designed to
alter its Tg in different amounts. Alternatively, the deployment fluid may be
subsequently completely removed, or in another non-restrictive version, the
method may be practiced in the absence of a deployment fluid where on a
certain temperature window or range deploys the polymeric shape-memory
material from its altered or compressed geometric state or position.
  [0043]     In one specific non-limiting embodiment, the shape-memory material
is a polyurethane material that is extremely tough and strong and that is capa
ble of being geometrically altered and returned to substantially its original
geometric shape. The Tg of the shape-memory polyurethane foam may range
from about 400C to about 200*C and it is geometrically altered by mechanical
force at 400C to 190*C. While still in geometrically altered state, the material

                                           15
 may be cooled down to room temperature or some other temperature below the
Tg of each shape-memory material. The shape-memory polyurethane is able to
 remain in the altered geometric state even after applied mechanical force is
 removed. However, as described herein, the polymeric shape-memory material
 in its altered geometric state may be contacted, saturated or soaked in a
deployment fluid which alters its Tg, generally lowering it. When the com
pressed polymeric shape-memory material is heated to above its reduced or
modified onset Tg, it is able to return to its original shape, or close to its original
shape. The time required for geometric shape recovery can vary from about 20
minutes to 40 hours or longer depending on the slope of the transition curves
as the material moves from a glass state to a rubber state. If the material
remains below the altered or lowered onset T9 it remains in the geometrically
altered state and does not change its shape.
  [0044]      In one non-limiting embodiment, when shape-memory polyurethane
is used as a downhole device, the device remains in an altered geometric state
during run-in until it reaches to the desired downhole location. Usually, down
hole tools traveling from surface to the desired downhole location take hours or
days. Thus, it may be helpful to match the altered onset Tgs of the material with
the expected downhole temperatures. The deployment fluids described herein
help the designer prevent premature deployment of the polymeric shape
memory material and control when and where deployment occurs, thus permit
ting flawless implementation and deployment of the wellbore device.
  [0045]     In some non-limiting embodiments, when the temperature is high
enough during run-in, the devices made from the shape-memory polyurethane
could start to recover. To avoid undesired early recovery during run-in, delaying
methods may or must be taking into consideration. In previous non-limiting
embodiments, a poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) film or other suitable film may be
used to wrap or cover the outside surface of devices made from shape-memory
polyurethane to prevent recovery during run-in. Once devices are in place
downhole for a given amount of time at temperature, the PVA film is capable of
being dissolved in the water, emulsions or other downhole fluids and, after such
exposure, the shape-memory devices may recover to their original geometric

                                          16
shape or conform to the bore hole or other space. However, the apparatus and
methods described herein instead prevent undesired early recovery of the
polymeric shape-memory material by contacting, soaking or enveloping the
material in a deployment fluid that alters the Tg sufficiently to help inhibit or
prevent premature deployment.
  [0046]    In one non-limiting embodiment, a downhole tool may have a well
bore device that is a polymeric shape-memory material as described herein
which may be designed to permit fluids, but not fines or other solids to pass
through, such as a screen. In a different non-restrictive version, the polymeric
shape-memory material may be designed to prevent fluids as well as solids
from passing therethrough, in which case the tool is a packer or other isolation
device. In these and other such embodiments, the recovered geometric posi
tion of the polymeric shape-memory material may be to totally conform to the
available space between the wellbore device and the borehole wall or casing.
When it is described herein that a device "totally conforms" to the borehole,
what is meant is that the shape-memory material recovers or deploys to fill the
available space up to the borehole wall. The borehole wall will limit the final,
recovered shape of the shape-memory material and in fact not permit it to
expand to its original, geometric shape. In this way however, the recovered or
deployed shape-memory material, will perform the desired function within the
wellbore. In summary, suitable wellbore devices used on the apparatus or in
the methods described herein include, but are not necessarily limited to an
expansion took a screen, a packer, and an isolation plug.
  [0047]   The invention will now be described with respect to certain specific
examples which are not intended to limit the invention in any way but simply to
more fully illuminate it.
                                   EXAMPLE 1
 [0048]    The effect of polar and non-polar deployment fluids on the deploy
ment of the memory-shape polymer foam-based expandables is shown in FIG.
5. Two cylindrical samples of polyurethane-polycarbonate rigid open-cell foam
(h = 4 mm, d = 7 mm) were immersed into vegetable oil and water at 65C and

                                             17
compacted to 35.2% and 39.4% of their original height, respectively, After the
compressive loads on samples were removed, the sample immersed in the
vegetable oil expanded to 39.9% of its original height within 21 seconds and
then further expanded to only 40.9% of its original height during the next 2468
minutes, while the sample immersed in water rapidly expanded to 50.8% of its
original height within 62 seconds and then gradually expanded further to 67.2%
of its original height during the next 2500 minutes. Note that the initial rapid
expansion of the foam samples reflects an elastic response of the foam to the
compressive load removal and can be avoided if the pre-compacted samples
are immersed into the liquid to deploy. Therefore, the foam sample immersed
in the vegetable oil was effectively "frozen" at 65*C, while the sample immersed
in the water was able to continually expand with a decreasing rate as a function
of time at the same temperature. Thus, this experiment shows that a com
pacted polyurethane/polycarbonate foam-based expandable element can be
safely transported downhole and installed at the temperatures less than at least
65*C if the wellbore is circulated with an oil-based liquid. Replacement of the
oil-based circulating fluid with a water-based liquid would trigger the deploy
ment of the expandables at the same temperature. This experiment also shows
that the onset temperature for the deployment of a foam-based element
immersed in the water is lower than 65 C.
                                      EXAMPLE 2
 [0049]      In this particular case of a polycarbonate-polyurethane memory
shape foam material, it is believed that the relatively light and mobile water
molecules form hydrogen bonds with the negatively charged oxygen atoms of
polycarbonate chains and the positively charged hydrogen atoms of urethane
(carbamate) links inducing their motion and likely acting as an "internal lubri
cant" between the polyrner chains, as previously discussed. A comprehensive
molecular-level understanding of interactions of water molecules with polymer
chains may be provided by the Molecular Dynamics simulations, described by
Tamar Schlick in "Molecular Modeling and Simulation", Springer-Verlag, New
York, 2002,

                                             18
  [0050]      This phenomenon effectively reduces a glass transition temperature,
Tg, of the polyurethane/polycarbonate foam immersed in the water in comparl
son with Tg of the same material immersed in vegetable oil by a ATg of about
 17'C, as seen in FIG. 6. FIG. 6 is a graph of the storage (E) and loss (E')
moduli of the polymeric shape-memory material samples immersed in oil and
water as functions of the temperature. The glass transition temperature of the
polymer immersed in liquid (T,) corresponds to the peak value of the loss
modulus E" and indicates that the Tg is about 17*C lower when water is used
as compared to when oil is used. Please also note the shift to the left of the
storage modulus F curve when water is used compared to when the oil is
employed.
 [0051]       Hence, the water acts as a deploying or activating agent on the
polymer foam while the vegetable oil does not display as significant T. reduc
tion and "lubricating" (rigidity reduction) properties. Therefore, by replacing a
non-polar (hydrocarbon) wellbore circulating fluid which does not have rela
tively large T,-reducing properties with a relatively more Tq-reducing ability fluid
contacting the polymer foam material, the onset temperature for the deploy
ment of the memory-shape polymer foam-based expandables may be reduced.
In one non-limiting implementation, the deployment onset temperature may be
kept high during the transportation downhole and the installation procedures.
Then the T, may be lowered by replacing the oil-based circulating fluids with
the water-based ones to actuate the deployment of the expandables. It should
be noted that the variety of possible deployment fluids is wide, and the water
and the vegetable oil are used only as examples.
                                      EXAMPLE 3
 [0052]      As shown in FIG. 7, by changing the temperature of the circulating
liquid, it is possible to control both the rate and the extent of the deployment of
the memory-shape polymer foam-based expandables. As shown in FIG. 7,
increasing the temperature increases the rate as well as the extent of the
expandables' deployment. It should be noted that this effect holds for the foam

                                           19
 immersed in both the more polar deployment fluids and the non-polar deploy
ment fluids.
                                     EXAMPLE 4
  [0053]    The following data support the understanding that a polar deploy
ment fluid which decreases T9 of the material relatively more than a non-polar
fluid is also more effective for reducing the deployment time of the totally con
formable sand screen (TCS). In this Example the TCS was a polyurethane/
polycarbonate foam.
  [0054]    The TCS material before contact with the activation fluid has a Tg in
3% KCI solution of 71 OC. After its immersion in activation fluids at 115*F for 72
hours, the Tgs in 3% KCI solution are as shown in Table 1.
                                       TABLE I
              T9 of the Material in 3% KCI Solution after Deployment
                    Using Various Blends of EGMBE and MeOH
       Deployment Fluid Composition                                       Tg,_*C
       None (Tg of Material before Compaction and Deployment)              71
       4% volume Ethylene Glycol Monobutyl Ether (EGMBE) 25%               44.1
       volume CH 30H and 8.9 ppg KCI
       5% volume EGMBE 25% volume CH30H and 8.9 ppg KCI                    38.9
       6% volume EGMBE 25% volume CH30H and 8.9 ppg KCl                    32.6
  [0055]    The results of Table I are plotted in FIG. 8. It may be seen that the T,
of the material decreases as the EGMBE content in the activation fluid
increases.
  [0056]    FIG. 9 shows that the higher the content of EGMBE in the deploy
ment fluid, the less time it takes to deploy the TCS to gauge hole diameter. In
the deployment experiments, the deployment fluids and corresponding
deployment times were as shown in Table I. It thus may be seen that the
deployment fluid which reduces T. more also reduces the deployment time
more.

                                            20
                                        TABLE II
           Deployment Times for Various Deployment Fluid Compositions
       Fluid Composition                                    Deployment Time, hr
       3% EGMBE 25% CH 30H and 8.9 ppg KCl                        22
       4% EGMBE 25% CH 30H and 8.9 ppg KCI                        22 (1s test)
                                                                  27 (2 nd test)
       5% EGMBE 25% CH 30H and 8.9 ppg KCI                        17
       7.5% EGMBE 25% CH 30H and 8.9 ppg KCI                       7 (1s test)
                                                                   8 (2 test)
                                                                  14 (3rd test)
 [0057]     It is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the exact
details of construction, operation, exact materials, or embodiments shown and
described, as modifications and equivalents will be apparent to one skilled in
the art. Accordingly, the invention is therefore to be limited only by the ap
pended claims. Further, the specification is to be regarded in an illustrative
rather than a restrictive sense. For example, specific combinations of compo
nents to make the polymeric shape-memory materials, particular Tgs, particular
deployment fluids used, particular temperature ranges, particular heating
devices, specific downhole tool configurations, designs and other compositions,
components and structures falling within the claimed parameters, but not
specifically identified or tried in a particular method or apparatus, are antici
pated to be within the scope of this invention.
 [0058]     The terms "comprises" and "comprising" in the claims should be
interpreted to mean including, but not limited to, the recited elements. For
instance, a wellbore device within the descriptions herein may consist of or
consist essentially of at least one polymeric shape-memory material and a
deployment fluid as defined by the claims. Similarly, a method of installing a
wellbore device on a downhole tool in a wellbore may consist of or consist
essentially of introducing the downhole tool bearing the wellbore device into a
wellbore where the polymeric shape-memory material is contacted by a first
fluid, substantially removing the first fluid, contacting the polymeric shape-

                                           21
memory material with a deployment fluid and recovering the polymeric shape
memory material from its altered geometric position for run-in to a recovered
geometric position as further specified in the claims. This method may also
consist of or consist essentially of removing the deployment fluid.
 [0059]     The method herein installing a wellbore device on a downhole tool in
a wellbore may consist essentially of or consist of introducing the downhole tool
bearing the wellbore device into a wellbore, where the wellbore device com
prises at least one polymeric shape-memory material having an original glass
transition temperature (Tg) and an original rigidity, where the polymeric shape
memory material is in an altered geometric position and the polymeric shape
memory material is contacted by a brine or oil; and recovering the polymeric
shape-memory material from its altered geometric position, in the absence of a
deployment fluid, upon the occurrence of an event including, but not neces
sarily limited to (1) the polymeric shape-memory material reaching a tempera
ture between about 10*F to about 150 F; (2) the polymeric shape-memory
material reaching a temperature within 10OF of its Tg; and/or (3) the polymeric
shape-memory material being exposed to a heating device that increases the
temperature above the material T,. Optionally the wellbore device has the
property that when the polymeric shape-memory material is recovered from its
altered geometric position, an effect is obtained selected from the group
consisting of restoring the Tg to within at least about 90% of the original Tg,
restoring the rigidity within at least about 25% of the original rigidity, and both.
 [0060]     The present invention may suitably comprise, consist or consist
essentially of the elements disclosed and may be practiced in the absence of
an element not disclosed.

                                               CLAIMS
    What is claimed is:
     1.        A method of installing a wellbore device on a downhole tool in a wellbore, the
    method comprising:
  5            introducing the downhole tool bearing the wellbore device into the wellbore,
    where the wellbore device comprises at least one polymeric foam shape-memory
    material having an original glass transition temperature (Tg) and an original rigidity,
    where the polymeric foam shape-memory material is in an altered geometric position
    and the polymeric foam shape-memory material is contacted by brine or oil;
 10            recovering the polymeric foam shape-memory material from its altered
    geometric position, in the absence of a deployment fluid, upon the occurrence of an
    event selected from the group consisting of:
                        the polymeric foam shape-memory material reaching a temperature
               between about 10OF to 1500 F;
  5                     the polymeric foam shape-memory material reaching a temperature
               within 1  0 F of its Tg;
                        the polymeric foam shape-memory material being exposed to a heating
               device that increases the temperature above the material Tg; and
                        combinations thereof.
20  2.         The method of claim 1 further comprising where the wellbore device has the
    property that when the polymeric foam shape-memory material is recovered from its
    altered geometric position, an effect is obtained selected from the group consisting of
    restoring the Tg to within at least about 90% of the original Tg, restoring the rigidity
    within at least about 25% of the original rigidity, and both.
25  3.         The method of claim I further comprising expanding the polymeric foam shape
    memory material from its altered geometric position to a recovered geometric position.
    1001953962

   4.          The method of claim 1 where the polymeric foam shape-memory material is
   selected from the group consisting of polyurethanes, polyurethanes made by reacting a
   polycarbonate polyol with a polyisocyanate , polyamides, polyureas, polyvinyl alcohols,
   vinyl      alcohol-vinyl   ester   copolymers,    phenolic   polymers,  polybenzimidazoles,
 5 polyethylene oxide/acrylic acid/methacrylic acid copolymer crosslinked with N, N'
   methylene-bis-acrylamide,        polyethylene   oxide/methacrylic acid/N-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone
   copolymer        crosslinked     with    ethylene    glycol   dimethacrylate,  polyethylene
   oxide/poly(methyl        methacrylate)/  N-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone copolymer crosslinked with
   ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, and combinations thereof.
10 5.          The method of claim 1 where the polymeric foam shape-memory material is a
   polyurethane formed by a process comprising reacting a polycarbonate polyol with an
   isocyanate.
   6.          The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the wellbore device is selected from the
   group consisting of an expansion tool, a screen, a packer, an isolation plug and
15 combinations thereof.
   1001953962

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
