   Method for the Fractionation of Phospholipids from Phospholipid-Containing Material
                                              Abstract
     The present invention relates to a counter-current extraction process involving a plurality of
mixing and separation stages for fractionating a phospholipid-containing feed material into two or
more fractions enriched in one or more phospholipids, comprising (a) contacting the phospholipid
containing starting material under agitation with an extractant comprising an aliphatic alcohol
selected from C1 to C3 alcohols; (b)separating the obtained emulsion into a phospholipid-enriched
extract from a residual raffinate.

          METHOD FOR THE FRACTIONATION OF PHOSPHOLIPIDS FROM
                        PHOSPHOLIPID-CONTAINING MATERIAL
                                       Field of the Invention
 [0001]          The subject invention relates to a method for process for extracting and
 separating phospholipids from phospholipid-containing materials, and to the thus obtained
 fractions, and their various uses.
                                   Background of the Invention
 [0002]          Phospholipids are important components of cell membranes of plants,
 microbes and animals. The term "phospholipid", refers to compounds derived from fatty
 acids and a phosphate-containing compound attached to glycerol or the amino alcohol
 sphingosine, resulting in compounds with fat-soluble and water-soluble regions. The tern
 "lecithin" herein is used for mixtures of phospholipids and triglycerides. The main glycerol
 containing phospholipids in lecithin are phosphatidyl choline, phosphatidyl inositol,
phosphatidyl ethanolamine and phosphatidic acid, further referred to herein as PC, PI, PE,
 and PA, respectively. The actual composition of phospholipids depends on the source. A
further term employed for highly polar components of lecithin are acetone insolubles, further
referred to as AI herein. These are lecithin components that are generally insoluble in
phospholipid-saturated acetone, which is typically employed to remove neutral triglycerides
from crude lecithin.
[0003]           A number of processes have been developed to fractionate commercially
available lecithin, in particular to obtain fractions enriched in phosphatidyl choline.
[0004]           US-A-4,235,793 discloses a process for obtaining oily, highly purified
phosphatidyleholines from oily raw phosphatides comprising extracting an oily phosphatide
extract from the oily raw phosphatide with a solvent selected from the group consisting of
lower alcohols and aqueous solutions thereof containing from about 85 to 96 percent alcohol,
directly contacting the said oily phosphatide extract with an aluminium oxide adsorbent and

  recovering the adsorbed phosphatidylcholine therefrom. The process is cumbersome since it
  requires the use of large amounts of aluminium oxide, and since the treated material also
  needs to be filtrated to remove adsorbent fines.
  [0005]          WO-A- 2005/072477 discloses a method for the separation of phospholipids
  from a phospholipid containing material, comprising a) combining the phospholipid
  containing material and a water soluble aliphatic alcohol, to form a phospholipid-containing
 fraction; and b) cooling the phospholipid-containing fraction to precipitate the phospholipids.
 The thus obtained mixture forms two separate fractions, which were separated by gravity,
 e.g. through centrifugation. The material is then mixed under heating, specifically with
 isopropanol, n-propanol and mixtures thereof, followed by a cooling step, and the obtained
 fractions are separated by several centrifugation steps. As a one-stage extraction process, the
 maximum extract yield of phospholipids is relatively low. Yet further, the process it is not
 very suitable for a continuous use, and cumbersome due to several centrifugation and
 reheating and/or cooling steps required.
 [0006]           Accordingly, there remains a need for a process with improved efficiency of
 phospholipid fractionation, which is also suitable for use on an industrial scale, and in a
 continuous process.
                                    Summary of the Invention
 [0007]           Accordingly, in a first aspect, the present invention relates to an extraction
process involving a plurality of mixing and separation stages for fractionating a
phospholipid-containing feed material into two or more fractions enriched in one or more
phospholipids, comprising the following steps:
(a) contacting the phospholipid-containing starting material under agitation with an extractant
comprising an aliphatic alcohol selected from C1 to C3 alcohols and mixtures thereof for a
period of time sufficient to effectuate the transfer of at least a fraction of the phospholipids
into the extractant;
(b) separating the obtained mixture into a phospholipid-enriched extract from a residual
raffinate by a process comprising applying centrifugal forces, wherein the phospholipid
enriched extract from each separation stage is at least in part returned to the previous, or
                                                   2

 further upstream mixing stages, and wherein a final phospholipid -enriched extract is
 separated from a first residual raffinate.
  [0008]          In a second aspect, the subject invention relates to a phospholipid-enriched
 extract obtainable according to the process according to any one of the previous claims. In a
 further aspect, the subject invention relates to a phospholipid-depleted raffinate obtainable
 according to the process according to any one of the previous claims.
 [0009]           In a further aspect, the subject invention relates to the use of the phospholipid
 enriched extract or a phospholipid-depleted raffinate for food products, preferably bakery
 products, neutraceutical compostions, confectionery, convenience foods, margarines,
 spreads; animal feed products and/or pharmaceuticals compositions, or as release agents or
 industrial emulsifiers.
                                  Brief Description of the Figures
 [00010]         These and further features can be gathered from the claims, description and
drawings and the individual features, both alone and in the form of sub-combinations, can be
realized in an embodiment of the invention and in other fields and can represent advantages,
independently      protectable    constructions    for  which    protection    is  hereby   claimed.
Embodiments of the invention are described in greater detail hereinafter relative to the
drawings, wherein:
[00011]          Fig. 1 discloses a schematic diagram of a preferred embodiment of the
fractionation process, including peripheral apparatus, as employed in the experiments.
[00012]          Fig. 2 discloses the ratio of rotation speed versus G-forces applied to mixtures
according to a preferred embodiment of the subject process; two different rotors were
employed in a centrifugal separator; the X-axis denotes the rotations, as rotations per minute,
the Y-axis the G-force.
[00013]          Fig. 3 discloses a schematic line-up of the process in a multistage line-up.
                               Detailed Description of the Invention
[00014]          In step (a), the phospholipid-containing starting material is contacted under
agitation with an extractant comprising an aliphatic alcohol selected from C, to C3 alcohols
                                                    3

 and mixtures thereof for a period of time sufficient to effectuate the transfer of at least a
 fraction of the phospholipids into the extractant. In the present process, the phospholipid
 containing starting material is preferably contacted in (a) with the extractant in a co-current
 or counter-current mixing operation. While the contact may be co- or counter-current,
 depending on the manner and apparatus wherein the two liquids are mixed, the overall
 process flow is counter-current, i.e. the phospholipid-containing starting material is contacted
 in a first stage with the extractant from a second or further stage, and so on.
 [00015]          In process step (b), the mixture obtained in step (a) is separated by a process
involving centrifugal forces.
 [00016]          The tenn "centrifugal forces" herein refers to the apparent outward force that
draws a rotating body away from the centre of rotation. The process preferably is a
mechanical process, more preferably by applying the centrifugal force in a rotating device,
such as a centrifuge.
 [00017]          The term "mixture" herein refers to any mixture that is obtained in any of the
stages of the present extraction process, and includes emulsions and dispersions, and
inhomogeneous mixtures and blends. The separation process is preferably executed in a
centrifugal device, at a Relative Centrifugal Force (RCF) in the range of from 2 to 25.000 G,
more preferably of from 10 to 20.000 G, yet more preferably of from 100 to 18.000 G, and
yet more preferably of from 400 to 15.000 G. Since the RCF is positively related with the
rotor radius and the rotation speed of a centrifuge, the rotation speed required for a given
rotor radius may conveniently be calculated by a skilled artisan.
[00018]           The extracted phospholipids preferably comprise one or more of phosphatidyl
choline     (PC),   lyso   phosphatidyl    choline   (LPC),  phosphatidyl     ethanolamine     (PE),
phosphatidyl inositol (PI) and/or phosphatidic acid (PA). The exact composition of the
extracted and residual components largely depends on the starting material, the extractant,
and the conditions under which the starting material is extracted, but also the chemical nature
of the extractant, and the composition of the extractant phase, e.g. water content and pH
value.
[00019]           The process preferably results in a final raffinate phase comprising less than
20 % by weight of phosphatidyl choline (PC), more preferably less than 15 % by weight, yet
                                                   4

 more preferably less than 12 % by weight.
 [00020]         More preferably, the final raffinate phase comprises phosphatidyl choline
 (PC) in an amount in the range of from 1 to 10 % by weight, more preferably of from 2 to 9
 % by weight, and yet more preferably of from 3 to 8 % by weight.
 [00021]         The final raffinate phase preferably has an Acetone Insoluble content of from
 55 to 75 % by weight, more preferably of from 60 to 70 % by weight, yet more preferably of
 from 65 to 70 % by weight.
                              Detailed Description of the Drawings
 [00022]         Fig. 1 depicts a preferred embodiment of the subject process. Herein, a
phospholipid feed tank (1) and an extractant tank (2) comprising a heat exchanger (not
depicted) are fluidly connected to a multistage centrifugal liquid-liquid extractor (3) having a
final extractant outlet (4) and a final raffinate outlet (4). The extractant feed is entered
counter-current to the phospholipid feed into the extractor (3), and the final extractant is
collected in an exetractant vessel (5) and a raffinate vessel (6). Both tanks (1) and (2) are
supplied with flow meters to adjust and control the flow needed for the actual experiment and
thus the extraction ratio. Temperature control equipment is installed at the heat exchanger
and at both centrifugal extractor inlets and outlets.
[00023]          Unadjusted lecithin and Ethanol adjusted to water content from 0 % to 10 %
by weight are filled into the tanks (1) and (2), respectively. The Extractant temperature may
be adjusted by circulating through the heat exchanger.
[00024]          Fig. 2 shows the Relative Centrifugal Force applied for a preferential
embodiment of the subject process, whereby a suitable centrifugal device was employed.
Herein, two different rotors led to a slight difference in the centrifugal forces that allowed a
fast separation.
[00025]          In the process according to the subject invention, preferably the final extract
obtained from the extractant phase comprises at least 25 % by weight of phosphatidyl choline
(PC), and more than 50 % by weight of Acetone Insolubles (AI).
[000261          The present process employs a multistage process, i.e. comprising repeated
extraction steps, and hence results in a higher yield of desired phospholipids in the extract
                                                   5

 phase, while simultaneously producing a raffinate phase having a composition significantly
 different from those typically obtained in the processes disclosed in the prior art.
 [00027]         The phospholipid-containing starting material may be any suitable material,
 such as crude lecithin of plant or animal origin, oil-derived gums and/or dried gums as
 obtainable from plant or animal oil and/or fat in degumming processes. Typically, the
 phospholipid composition of the starting material is in part influenced by the preparation
 method, however largely defined by the origin of the material.
 [00028]         Suitable lecithin compositions have been disclosed in detail in Kirk-Othmer,
 Food and Feed Technology, 5" Edition, Volume 1, 2007, John Wiley & Sons.
 [00029]         The phospholipid-containing material preferably comprises one or more
phospholipids selected from the group consisting of unmodified or chemically modified
 fonns of phosphatidyl choline (PC), LPC, phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE),
Nacylphosphatidyl ethanolamine (NAPE), phosphatidyl seine (PS), phosphatidyl inositol
(PI), phosphatidyl glycerol (PG), diphosphatidyl glycerol (DPG), phosphatidic acid (PA),
plasmalogen, lecithin and vegetable oil-derived gums. Of these, phosphatidyl choline (PC),
phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE), and phosphatidyl inositol (PI) typically form the majority of
the components.
 [00030]         The phospholipid-containing material for use in the subject process may
comprise triglyceride oil, or may be partially or completely de-oiled, for instance by acetone
or hexane extraction, as disclosed in DE-A-1234680. The presence of the triglycerides was
found to not be detrimental for the subject process, since the triglycerides were found hardly
soluble in the alcohol extractant employed. Hence the present process advantageously
permits the use of crude phospholipid compositions as a starting component. Moreover, the
presence of triglycerides in the starting material may reduce the viscosity, and hence may
reduce the energy required to achieve a suitable mixing of the extractant phase and the
raffinate phase.
[00031]         Furthermore, addition of oil may advantageously be reduced to the raffinate
fraction, thereby reducing the overall volume subjected to the de-oiling step.
[00032]         Preferred due to the wide availability is plant oil derived lecithin, selected
from the group consisting of soybean lecithin, corn germ oil lecithin, rapeseed lecithin
                                                 6

  including lecithin derived from canola, field mustard and other rapeseed variants and hybrids,
  rice oil lecithin, sunflower lecithin, cotton seed lecithin, peanut lecithin, coconut oil lecithin,
  lecithins derived from soybean oil, sunflower oil, rapeseed oil, cottonseed oil, olive oil, corn
  oil, ground nut or peanut oil, safflower oil, linola oil, linseed oil, palm oil, marine oils,
 biomass oils derived from other sources than those mentioned herein, and/or coconut oil, and
 mixtures thereof.
  [00033]          Suitable sources of marine oil lecithins include oils derived from marine life
 fonns such as microalgae or cyanobacteria. Alternatively, animal-based lecithin may be
 employed, including egg yolk lecithin, milk lecithin and/or brain lecithin, and or mixtures
 thereof. The raw material to be fractionated is preferably chosen in function of the fraction or
 fractions required. If a phospholipid fraction that is virtually free from linolenic acid moieties
 is desired, sunflower lecithin, cottonseed lecithin or corn germ oil lecithin may
 advantageously be used. For applications requiring a fraction with not too high in unsaturated
 fatty acid residues, and hence enhanced oxidative stability, rapeseed lecithin may preferably
 be employed as starting material. Soybean lecithin is strongly preferred due to the availability
 and its high PC content.
 [00034]           If a phospholipid-comprising mixture, which may further comprise
 triglycerides and other components normally associated with its isolation and/or preparation,
 is blended with an aliphatic alcohol under agitation, typically a two-phase system is formed,
 which upon on settling yields an alcohol-containing, lighter, upper layer containing some
phospholipids and possibly triglycerides and other alcohol soluble components, and a
phospholipid-containing lower layer containing the remainder of the triglycerides, along with
some alcohol.
 [00035]           The standard methods of analysis for the components disclosed herein are
according to the European Council Directive No 95/2/EC of 20 February 1995 on food
additives other than colours and sweeteners.
[00036]            While settler/mixer units may be employed to separate extractant and raffinate
phases, the separation due to normal gravity is slow, and requires careful control of the
temperatures of the liquids. Yet further, the heavier phase tends to have a comparatively high
viscosity, making the separation difficult, and leading to a loss in extract yield.
                                                   7

 [00037]           Applicants have now found that if the density separation at each stage is
 enhanced by increasing the gravitational forces by using one or more centrifugal extractors,
 while also increasing the energy put into emulsifying the phospholipid phase, the extraction
 yield of the described phospholipids may be strongly increased, while at the same time the
 time required to perform the extraction and phase separation is strongly reduced.
 [00038]           Moreover, the thus obtained lighter extracted fraction and the heavier raffinate
 fraction were found to have different compositions from those typically obtained in the
extraction process using mixer/settler units, thereby enhancing the potential for different
uses.
 [00039]           Applicants have further found the distribution of the various components over
both phases is primarily governed by the phospholipid-containing material; phospholipid
containing material to extractant ratio, the phospholipid composition, the temperature and
the extractant composition, especially its water content and/or the acid value, as well as the
mechanical agitations supplied to form the liquid/liquid emulsion.
[000401           The multi-component system makes a selective fractionation difficult, since
the extraction of the different components of the starting material may change when the
different parameters are varied. In general, the extractant phase contains more phospholipids
at elevated temperatures, at reduced water content.
[00041]           The present process preferably employs a multistage mixing and liquid/liquid
separation apparatus or device. The process according to the invention may be carried out as
a batch process, but preferably is executed in a continuous operation. Additionally to
centrifugal devices, also mixer/settler systems may advantageously be used.
[000421           In the liquid-liquid two-phase extraction process according to the invention,
extractant and material to be extracted are introduced into a multistage extraction apparatus.
The multistage extraction apparatus preferably has a first inlet and a second inlet. The
introduction of both liquids is preferably perfonned in a counter-current direction to each
other, i.e. the lighter phase may advantageously be introduced at the top of the multistage
separation device, in the first inlet, while the phospholipid -containing material may
advantageously be introduced at the bottom, i.e. the second inlet.
[00043]           In each stage, preferably a mixture of the feed to be extracted and of the
                                                  8

 extractant preferably may be cycled through a mixer and an overflow vessel, and a quantity
 of the mixture of solvent and substance may be withdrawn from the overflow vessel at each
 stage, and separated in a centrifuge into extract and raffinate.
 [00044]           The raffinate is then preferably introduced into the following extraction stage
 or moved to a further processing step from the final stage, whereas the extract is returned to a
 preceding stage, or discharged from the first stage into a further processing step.
 Accordingly, the present process preferably comprises introducing a feed comprising the
 phospholipid-containing material into a multistage extraction apparatus in a first direction;
 introducing an extractant comprising an aliphatic alcohol selected from C1 to C 3 alcohols and
 mixtures thereof, which extractant flows through the multistage extraction apparatus in a
 second direction and forms an extract phase of the fractionation process; contacting the feed
 and the extractant under agitation; wherein the second direction is counter-current to the first
 direction.
 [00045]          A particularly suitable multistage extraction apparatus comprises for each
 stage i) a rotor, ii) a mixing chamber connected to the rotor, and wherein the two liquid
 streams are mixed, and wherein the mixing chamber comprises iia) a stationary agitator
placed in the mixing chamber, and iib) a settling chamber in which the liquid streams are
 separated by the centrifugal force generated by the mixing chamber. The stationary agitator
preferably comprises a stationary disc, and wherein the mixing is achieved through the speed
differential between the stationary disc and the rotating mixing chamber. The disc may also
act as a pump, thereby moving the extract and raffinate phases through the multistage
apparatus.
[00046]           Both raffinate and extract were found to comprise a different composition of
phospholipids, and quite different from those obtained in other known processes, and may
thus be useful for different purposes, including food products, more preferably bakery
products, neutraceuticals, confectionery, convenience foods, margarines, spreads;
neutraceuticals and pharmaceuticals. Alternative preferred uses include cosmetics; animal
feed products and/or pharmaceuticals compositions, or as release agents or industrial
emulsifiers.
[00047]           Accordingly the subject invention also relates to the use of the phospholipid
                                                   9

  enriched extract or a phospholipid-depleted raffinate for food products, preferably bakery
  products, neutraceuticals, confectionery, convenience foods, margarines, spreads; animal
  feed products and/or pharmaceuticals compositions, or as release agents or industrial
  emulsifiers. Preferably the present process therefore also includes one or more steps for the
 isolation of the extract or raffinate, and the step of incorporating the extract or raffinate into a
 product as described herein above.
  [00048]        The extractant comprising the aliphatic alcohol flows through the multistage
 extraction apparatus in a first direction and contributes to the extractant phase. The material
 to be extracted flows through the multistage extraction apparatus in a second direction, which
 second direction is counter-current to the first direction, and contributes to a raffinate phase
 of the two-phase extraction process.
 [00049]         The two phases are contacted directly, under agitation, to transfer extractable
 components from the feed into the extractant phase, resulting in an increasingly enriched
 extractant phase, and an increasingly depleted raffinate phase.
 [00050]         The following, non-limiting examples illustrate the process according to the
 invention. It should be understood, however, that the invention is not limited to the specific
 details of the Examples.
                                         Experimental Part
 [00051]         Extractor: A multistage centrifugal liquid-liquid extractor obtained from
Rousselet Robatel (France) was employed in the experiments. The extractor comprised 6
rotating bowls, connected to a central rotor, with a maximum rotation speed of 2.900 rpm,
and a maximum flow rate (2 phases) of 25 to 30 1/h. The bowls had a useful volume of 0.39 1.
[00052]          The peripheral equipment was employed according to the schema depicted in
Fig. 1. Ethanol was adjusted to a water content from 0 % to 10 % by weight, and filled into
feed tanks. The temperature of the ethanol feed was adjusted by circulating it through a heat
exchanger, while the temperatures in the process stages were controlled at the heat exchanger
and at both centrifugal extractor inlets and outlets. Both lecithin and ethanol tank were
supplied with flow meters to adjust and control the flow needed for the actual experiment and
thus the extraction ratio.
                                                  10

  [00053]        At start up, the ethanol flow was adjusted first, and a rotation speed was set.
 Then the lecithin flow was adjusted.
 [00054]         The system was allowed to stabilize for about 5 min of continuous extract and
 raffinate outlet flow, and then the actual flows were determined by collecting extract and
 raffinate phase coming out of the extractor during 5 min and determining weight of the total
 amount. 51 of each fraction were collected for further analysis.
 [00055]         Yield determination: For yield calculation extract and raffinate streams were
 collected during 5 minutes and weighed. From that the throughput in kg/h was calculated.
 Since the extract phase still contained a certain amount of raffinate phase, the raffinate phase
 content was determined as follows:
 [00056]         A defined amount of well homogenised extract phase was weighed into a
 centrifuge flask of known weight and centrifuged at 5000 rpm for 10 min (10 C0 ). Then the
 supernatant extract phase was carefully decanted and sediment weighed as raffinate of the
 homogenized extract phase. The corrected raffinate and extract throughput were then
 extrapolated from this amount.
 [00057]         Acetone insolubles were determined according to Lange R., Fiebig H.J.
(1999): Separation of Phospholipids, Standard Methods of DGF, Fett/Lipid 101: 77-79.
 [00058]         This method is based on the solubility of lecithin components such as
triglycerides, fatty acids, sterols, and other acetone- soluble components, and the insolubility
of the phospholipids and glycophospholipids in acetone under the test conditions. The latter
are termed acetone insolubles (AI).
[00059]          Generally, about 5 g of a lecithin sample is repeatedly vigorously mixed with
about 40 ml of acetone at 00 C. Acetone soluble components are dissolved, while insoluble
components precipitate. The precipitates are then filtered off, and washed with acetone, and
the residue is dried. The method is repeated at least 4 times, or until no soluble components
are detected in the acetone. The amount of the combined residues is considered as the
acetone insoluble part of the lecithin sample, and the weight percentage is calculated, by
subtracting the content of acetone-soluble components and the water content.
[00060]         Compositional data: An aliquot of the well homogenised extract and raffinate,
respectively, were weighed into a round bottom flask of known weight. The solvent was
                                                  11

 removed in a rotary evaporator at 50-60 'C and reduced pressure, automatically adjusting
 pressure according to vapour pressure. A final drying step was performed in a freeze-dryer
 until constant weight was achieved. Dry mass and total yield were calculated from the
 corrected throughput and dry mass.
 [00061]         Chemical Composition: Dried samples of extract, with residual raffinate
 content removed, and of the raffinate phase were analysed for their Al content and acid
 value. The phospholipid composition was determined using a liquid-chromatographic
method.
 [00062]         The identification and quantification of the various phospholipid components
may conveniently be executed by different methods, including thin-layer chromatography
(TLC), high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and                 31
                                                                           P nuclear magnetic
resonance spectroscopy ( P-NMR) for the phospholipids only. Suitable methods are
disclosed in London E., Feigenson          G.W. (1979):      Phosphorous NMR Analysis       of
Phospholipids in Detergents, J. Lipid Res. 20: 408-412; Aitzetmiller K. (1984): HPLC and
Phospholipids, Part I: General Considerations, Fette, Seifen, Anstrichm. 86: 318-322; and
Aloisi J.D., Sherma J., Fried B. (1990): Comparison of Mobile Phases for Separation and
Quantification of Lipids by One-Dimensional TLC and Preadsorbent High Performance
Silica Gel Plates, J. Liq. Chromatogr. 13:3949-3961.
        Examples 1 to 8
[00063]          Crude soya lecithin was extracted with ethanol, comprising 2.5 % wt. and 4.5
% wt. water, respectively. Table 1 depicts the conditions that were applied results of various
runs:
        Table 1: Applied conditions
   Ex.     Extract.      T [0]      Water in Ethanol [%]       Extraction      Rotation
            stages                                                Ratio          speed
                                                              Extractant to
                                                                Raffinate
    1          4           30                4,5                    1            2900
    2          4           30                4,5                    1            2300
    3          6           12                4,5                    1            2300
    4          6           12                4,5                    1            2900
    5          6           12                2,5                    2            2300
                                                12

      6         6          12                  2,5                   2             2900
      7         4          12                  2,5                    1            2900
      8         4          12                  2,5                    1            2300
  [00064]         The obtained extract and raffinate phases were dried to remove volatiles
 extractant and water, and analysed for acetone insolubles, acid value and composition (see
 Table 2). The extraction ratio refers to the weight ratio of extractant and raffinate employed
 in each stage.
         Table 2: Dried extract and raffinate composition
    Ex.          Dried Extract                       Dried  Raffinate (ISOL)
          % AI     %PC       Acid        %      %      %      %       %PI         Acid
                            Value        Al     PA    PC      PE                 Value
     1     58,7    40,9       16,6      66,8    5,3   8,0    18,6      15,9       21,2
     2     54,2    39,5       18,4      66,1    4,6  13,2    16,9      12,4       19,5
     3     57,5    41,1       17,6      66,4    5,0   9,2    17,5     14,6        20,7
     4     56,4    39,3       17,2      66,7    5,0   8,6    17,8     13,2        20,5
     5     53,4    35,2       16,5      68,1    5,2   9,2     18      14,2        20,8
     6     54,1    34,7       15,7      68,7    5,4   6,5    18,7     14,4        21,7
     7      53      36        16,9      66,9   4,8   12,8    18,6     12,8        20,1
     8    51,5     37,8      17,4       67,1   4,7   12,8    17,5     12,3        20,1
 [00065]          The examples illustrate that using multistage counter-current centrifugal
extraction process, it is possible to achieve yields of up to 40 % of an ethanol soluble fraction
of lecithin showing a high PC content and an adequate PC/ Al ratio.
[00066]          The corresponding raffinate phase is strongly depleted in PC, and has a
composition that would typically only be achieved from performing single stage ethanol
extraction of previously de-oiled lecithin.
[00067]          The obtained raffinate fractions were found in particular useful as emulsifiers
for food products. In the experiments, it was found that a higher extraction ratio, i.e. extract
to raffinate ratio increased the Al content in the raffinate. Higher ethanol temperature also
led to increased Al in raffinate, as did a lower water concentration in the ethanol. Both
factors appear to enhance triglyceride extraction with the ethanol. While the PC content in
                                                  13

raffinate could be reduced by applying a higher extraction ratio, this was also obtained from
higher temperature, more extraction stages and increased rotor speed.
 [00068]        Further, a higher extraction ratio, higher temperature and a reduction of the
water content in the ethanol also lead to an increase of PA, PI and PE concentrations in the
raffinate.
[00069]         Higher water concentration and higher temperature of the ethanol were found
to increase the PC content in the extract, while increasing the extraction ratio led to a lower
PC content in the extract.
                                               14

 Claims
 1.      A counter-current extraction process involving a plurality of mixing and separation
 stages for fractionating a phospholipid-containing feed material into two or more fractions
 enriched in one or more phospholipids, comprising the following steps:
         (a) contacting the phospholipid-containing starting material under agitation with an
         extractant comprising an aliphatic alcohol selected from C1 to C3 alcohols and
         mixtures thereof for a period of time sufficient to effectuate the transfer of at least a
         fraction of the phospholipids into the extractant;
         (b) separating the obtained mixture into a phospholipid-enriched extract from a
         residual raffinate by a process comprising applying centrifugal forces,
         wherein the phospholipid-enriched extract from each separation stage is at least in
         part returned to the previous, or further upstream mixing stages, and wherein a final
         phospholipid -enriched extract is separated from a first residual raffinate.
2.       A process according to claim 1, wherein in (a) the phospholipid-containing starting
material is contacted with the extractant in a co-current or counter-current mixing operation.
3.      A process according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the extracted phospholipids
comprise one or more of phosphatidyl choline (PC), phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE),
phosphatidyl Inositol (PI) and/or phosphatidic acid (PA).
4.      A process according to any one of claims I to 3, wherein the final raffinate phase
comprises less than 12 % by weight of phosphatidyl choline (PC).
5.      A process according to any one of the previous claims, wherein the final extract
comprises at least 25 % by weight of phosphatidyl choline (PC), and more than 50 % by
weight of Aceton Insolubles (Al).
6.      A process according to any one of the previous claims, wherein the aliphatic alcohol
                                                  15

 is ethanol.
 7.       A process according to any one of the previous claims, wherein the water
 concentration in the aliphatic alcohol is in the range of from 0 to 10% by weight.
 8.      A process according to any one of the previous claims, wherein steps (a) and (b) are
 executed at least in part in a multistage extraction apparatus comprising for each stage:
         i) a rotor,
         ii) a mixing chamber connected to the rotor, and wherein the two liquid streams are
         mixed, and wherein the mixing chamber comprises
                  iia) a stationary agitator placed in the mixing chamber, and
                  iib) a settling chamber in which the liquid streams are separated by the
                  centrifugal force generated by the mixing chamber.
 9.      A process according to claim 8, wherein the stationary agitator comprises a stationary
 disc, and wherein the mixing is achieved through the speed differential between the
 stationary disc and the rotating mixing chamber.
 10.     A process according to any one of the previous claims, comprising at least two
extraction and separation stages, wherein the respective extractant is added to the respective
raffinate at one or more stages in a counter-current or co-current manner.
 11.     A process according to any one of the previous claims, wherein the extraction ratio is
in the range of from 1 to 5, wherein the extractant phase comprises water in an amount of
from 1 to 10 % by weight, wherein the extractant phase has a temperature of from 25 'C to
70 'C, and wherein from 2 to 10 extraction stages are employed using of from 2 to 20.000 g
for the separation step.
12.      The process according to any one of the previous claims, wherein the phospholipid
containing feed comprises lecithin.
                                                   16

 13.     The process according to claim 12, wherein the lecithin is selected from
soybean lecithin, corn lecithin, rapeseed lecithin, rice oil lecithin, sunflower lecithin, cotton
seed lecithin, palm oil lecithin, marine oil lecithin, biomass lecithin, peanut lecithin, egg yolk
lecithin, milk lecithin and/or brain lecithin, more preferably soybean lecithin or sunflower
lecithin.
 14.     The process according to any one of the previous claim, further comprising isolating
at least part of the phospholipids from the raffinate and/or extract phase.
15.      A phospholipid-enriched extract or a phospholipid-depleted raffinate obtainable
according to the process according to any one of the previous claims.
16.      Use of the phospholipid-enriched extract or a phospholipid-depleted raffinate for food
products, preferably bakery products, neutraceuticals, confectionery, convenience foods,
margarines, spreads; animal feed products and/or pharmaceuticals compositions, or as release
agents or industrial emulsifiers.
                                                 17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
