                                      ABSTRACT
        A video slot machine starts spinning display of video reels upon detecting a spin
operation, and performs a lottery to determine a special position in symbol stop
positions in a reel display area. A character appears behind the video reel in such a
manner that a displayed range of the character includes the symbol stop position
determined to be the special position. When the video reels stop with a chance symbol
stopped in front of the character, a replacement target is selected from the change
symbol and other symbols in its periphery in accordance with a section of the character
stopped by the chance symbol.      Then, outcome of the reels is determined with the
replacement target symbols replaced with a reward symbol, and payout is performed.

                        [FIG.2]
      W2
           Gather 3 Scatters to play Bonus Stage
         8       8   6(6a)      8          8(8c)
 20                                                     18
                                                         6 (6a)
8(8s)
                                     _                  -8
                  3CREDIS BET           WN
                 5470        300
               MENV                              0.02
      31          32          33           34        35

        VIDEO SLOT MACHINE, SERVER SYSTEM, AND COMPUTER SYSTEM
            Japanese Patent Application No. 2016-240070 filed on December 12, 2016 is
   hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
 5
                                        BACKGROUND
           Video slot machines are slot machines with symbol (graphic) columns in
    spinning reels, in a mechanical slot machine, implemented with video images.             The
   video slot machines have gained popularity with behaviors of reels and payout patterns
10 that would have been unachievable by mechanical slot machines.
           For example, Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 2008-36163 discloses
   a technique of achieving a wide variety of scatter payouts, based on combinations of
   symbols in video reels and background colors of the video reels.            Japanese Patent
   Application Publication No. 2015-66396 discloses a technique of implementing the
15 background of a video reel with a second video reel and using graphic, formed for the
   second video reel, for payout patterns.
           Among various aspects that can make the video slot machines distinguishable
   from other machines and more attractive, a process before the outcome is determined
   and variation of the payout patterns are of particularly important.
20
                                           SUMMARY
           According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a video slot machine
   comprising: at least one processor or circuit programmed to execute as:
           scroll displaying symbol columns of N reels (N > 3) in a reel display area
25 including two or more symbol stop positions for each of the reels;
           performing lottery to determine a special position in the symbol stop positions;
           identifiably displaying the special position in the reel display area, before the
                                                 1

   scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops; and
           performing a reward process when a symbol stopped at the special position,
   when the scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops, the symbol being a
   predetermined chance symbol.
 5         According to the second aspect of the invention, there is provided a server
   system comprising: at least one processor or circuit programmed to execute as:
           scroll displaying symbol columns of N reels (N > 3) in a reel display area
   including two or more symbol stop positions for each of the reels to control progress of
   a video slot game in a user terminal;
10         performing lottery to determine a special position in the symbol stop positions;
           identifiably displaying the special position in the reel display area, before the
   scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops; and
           performing a reward process when a symbol stopped at the special position,
   when the scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops, the symbol being a
15 predetermined chance symbol.
           According to the third aspect of the invention, there is provided a computer
   system comprising: a user terminal receiving a user operation; and a server system,
           the server system comprising at least one processor or circuit programmed to
   execute as:
20         scroll displaying symbol columns of N reels (N > 3) in a reel display area
   including two or more symbol stop positions for each of the reels to control progress of
   a video slot game in the user terminal;
           performing lottery to determine a special position in the symbol stop positions;
           identifiably displaying the special position in the reel display area, before the
25 scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops; and
           performing a reward process when a symbol stopped at the special position,
                                                 2

   when the scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops, the symbol being a
   predetermined chance symbol.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5        FIG. 1 is a front outer view illustrating an example of a configuration of a video
   slot machine according to a first embodiment.
          FIG. 2 is a diagram illustrating an example of a game screen of a video slot
   game according to the first embodiment.
          FIG. 3 is a diagram illustrating relationship between video reels and a reel
10 display area according to the first embodiment.
          FIG. 4 is a diagram illustrating an example of enemy characters (identifiably
   displayed object corresponding to special positions) according to the first embodiment.
          FIG. 5 is a first series of diagrams illustrating how the game screen of the video
   slot game according to the first embodiment transitions.
15        FIG. 6 is a second series of diagrams illustrating how the game screen of the
   video slot game according to the first embodiment transitions.
          FIG. 7 is a diagram illustrating an example of how positions as targets of
   replacement with a reward symbol are distributed and set, when a chance symbol has
   stopped at a symbol stop position corresponding to a leg section of an enemy character.
20        FIG. 8 is a diagram illustrating an example of how the positions as the targets of
   replacement with the reward symbol are distributed and set, when the chance symbol
   has stopped at a symbol stop position corresponding to a body section of the enemy
   character.
          FIG. 9 is a diagram illustrating an example of how the positions as the targets of
25 replacement with the reward symbol are distributed and set, when the chance symbol
   has stopped at a symbol stop position corresponding to a head section of an enemy
   character (normal character).
                                                 3

           FIG. 10 is a diagram illustrating an example of how the positions as the targets
   of replacement with the reward symbol are distributed and set, when the chance symbol
   has stopped at a symbol stop position corresponding to a head section of an enemy
   character (special character).
 5         FIG. 11 is a diagram illustrating replacement target position offsetting.
           FIG. 12 is a diagram illustrating an example of a payout change process
   performed when one symbol stop position is redundantly selected as a replacement
   target.
           FIG. 13 is a diagram illustrating an example of a game screen of a bonus game
10 stage according to the first embodiment.
           FIG. 14 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of the
   video slot machine according to the first embodiment.
           FIG. 15 is a diagram illustrating an example of a program and data stored in an
   information storage section of the video slot machine according to the first embodiment.
15         FIG. 16 is a first diagram illustrating an example of a data structure of
   replacement pattern defining data.
           FIG. 17 is a second diagram illustrating an example of the data structure of the
   replacement pattern defining data.
           FIG. 18 is a flowchart illustrating a flow of a process performed by the video
20 slot machine according to the first embodiment.
           FIG. 19 is a flowchart continuing from FIG. 18.
           FIG. 20 is a diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of a game system
   according to a second embodiment.
           FIG. 21 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of a server
25 system according to the second embodiment.
           FIG. 22 is a diagram illustrating an example of a program and data stored in a
   server storage section according to the second embodiment.
                                                 4

           FIG. 23 is a diagram illustrating an example of a data structure of user
   management data.
           FIG. 24 is a diagram illustrating an example of a data structure of play data
   according to the second embodiment.
 5         FIG. 25 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of a user
   terminal according to the second embodiment.
           FIG. 26 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of a user
   terminal according to a third embodiment.
           FIG. 27 is a diagram illustrating an example of a program and data stored in a
10 terminal storage section of the user terminal according to the third embodiment.
           FIG. 28 is a diagram illustrating an example of a game screen according to a
   modification.
           FIG. 29 is a flowchart illustrating a flow of a process performed by a video slot
   game according to the modification.
15         FIG. 30 is a flowchart continuing from FIG. 29.
                     DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
           According to one embodiment of the invention, there is provided a video slot
   machine comprising: at least one processor or circuit programmed to execute as:
20         scroll displaying symbol columns of N reels (N > 3) in a reel display area
   including two or more symbol stop positions for each of the reels;
           performing lottery to determine a special position in the symbol stop positions;
           identifiably displaying the special position in the reel display area, before the
   scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops; and
25         performing a reward process when a symbol stopped at the special position,
   when the scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops, the symbol being a
   predetermined chance symbol.
                                                 5

           The "chance symbol" as used herein is a symbol to be a key of getting an
   opportunity to activate the reward process. In the present embodiment, the special
   position, determined by the lottery, is identifiably displayed before the scroll displaying
   of the symbol columns stops, and the reward process is performed in accordance with
 5 whether or not the chance symbol has stopped at the special position when the scroll
   displaying stops Thus, novel display control before the outcome is determined can be
   implemented. The special position is determined in the symbol stop positions by lottery,
   and thus a larger variety of payout patterns can be achieved than in a configuration
   where the special position is fixed. Thus, the video slot machine can be more attractive.
10 The player does not know where the special position is to be set, and thus can enjoy a
   new type of excitement before the identifiable displaying.
           In the video slot machine, the reward process may at least include a process of
   replacing the chance symbol stopped at the special position with a predetermined
   reward symbol.
15         According to this configuration, the reward process is performed to change the
   chance symbol to the reward symbol. Thus, the arrangement of symbols at the point
   where the scroll displaying has stopped can be changed in accordance with whether or
   not the chance symbol has stopped at the special position, to determine the final
   outcome of the slot machine. Thus, the process before determining the outcome can be
20 entertaining, and the video slot machine can be even more attractive.
           In the video slot machine, the reward process may at least include a first
   replacement process of replacing a symbol in a reel including the chance symbol
   stopped at the special position with a predetermined reward symbol.
           According to this configuration, not only the chance symbol but also the other
25 symbols in the reel including the chance symbol can be replaced with the reward
   symbol at the same time. Thus, the reward can be more impressive to the player, and
   the video slot machine can be even more attractive.
                                                 6

            In the video slot machine, the reward process may at least include a second
   replacement process of replacing a symbol in a reel including the chance symbol
   stopped at the special position as well as a symbol in an adjacent reel with a
   predetermined reward symbol.
 5          According to this configuration, not only the chance symbol but also the
   symbols in the reel including the chance symbol as well as the other reel adjacent to the
   reel including the chance symbol can be replaced with the reward symbol. Thus, the
   reward can be more impressive to the player, and a wider variety of the payouts can be
   achieved.
10          In the video slot machine, the second replacement process may include replacing
   symbols in X continuous reels (N > X > 2) including the reel including the chance
   symbol stopped at the special position with the reward symbol.
            According to this configuration, the symbol in the X continuous reels including
   the reel including the chance symbol can be replaced with the reward symbol. Thus, a
15 wide area of reward symbol group can be provided based on the position at which the
   chance symbol has stopped. Thus, the reward can be more impressive to the player, and
   a wider variety of the payouts can be achieved.
            In the video slot machine, the performing the lottery to determine the special
   position may include performing lottery to determine a plurality of the special positions,
20        . the reward process including changing payout when the second replacement
   process results in overlapping reels including replacement targets.
            According to this configuration, when the second replacement process results in
   the reels that are the replacement targets overlapping with each other, the payout can be
   determined in accordance with rarity of the overlapping status. Thus, a wider variety of
25 the payout patterns can be achieved.
            In the video slot machine, the reward symbol may be a wild symbol or a scatter
   symbol.
                                                 7

           According to this configuration, the replacement with the wild symbol or the
   scatter symbol occurs. Thus, the reward process can be more impressive to the player,
   and the video slot machine can be more attractive.
           In the video slot machine, the performing the lottery to determine the special
 5 position may include performing lottery to determine a position in the reel display area
   where a character with a predetermined size is displayed as the special position,
           the identifiably displaying the special position may include displaying the
   character at the special position.
           According to this configuration, the character can be the identifiably displayed
10 object at the special position. Thus, the visibility of the reels, regarding the symbols,
   can be improved.
           In the video slot machine, the size of the character may at least include two of
   the symbol stop positions adjacent to each other.
           According to this configuration, the visibility of the special position can further
15 be increased. The special position is set to be at a plurality of continuous symbol stop
   positions, and thus the player can feel that there is a higher chance of the chance symbol
   stopping at the symbol stop position, and thus may expect to obtain a larger payout to
   feel more excited. The character can be drawn in a wide area, and thus there is more
   space for adding display effects such as a certain movement of the character that has
20 appeared until the reels stop. With such effect effectively utilized, the process before
   the outcome is determined can be more exciting, and the video slot machine can be
   more attractive.
           In the video slot machine, the performing the reward process may include
   performing a first reward process when a stop position of the chance symbol overlaps
25 with a first section of the character, and performing a second reward process when the
   stop position overlaps with a second section of the character.
                                                  8

           According to this configuration, different reward processes can be performed in
   accordance with the section of the character, with a size including a plurality of
   continuous symbol stoop positions, overlapped with the chance symbol. Thus, a wider
   variety of the processes before the outcome is determined and the payout patterns can be
 5 achieved.
           In the video slot machine, the character may at least include a first character and
   a second character,
           the performing the lottery to determine the special position may include
   performing lottery to determine a first special position where the first character is
10 displayed and a second special position where the second character is displayed,
           the identifiably displaying the special position may include displaying the first
   character at the first special position and displaying the second character at the second
   special position,
           the performing the reward process may include performing a first reward
15 process when a stop position of the chance symbol overlaps with the first character, and
   performing a second reward process when the stop position overlaps with the second
   character.
           According to this configuration, a plurality of types of characters are prepared,
   and different reward processes can be performed in accordance with the type of the
20 character corresponding to the position where the chance symbol has stopped. Thus, a
   wider variety of the processes before the outcome is determined and the payout patterns
   can be achieved.
           In the video slot machine, the first reward process may at least include a process
   of replacing a first number of symbols, and may include the chance symbol stopped at
25 the special position, with the predetermined reward symbol,
           the second reward process at least including replacing a second number of
                                                  9

   symbols, including the chance symbol stopped at the special position, with the reward
   symbol, the second number of symbols being larger than the first number of symbols.
           According to this configuration, the number of symbols to be replaced with the
   reward symbol can be changed in accordance with the type of the reward process. Thus,
 5 an even wider variety of the processes before the outcome is determined and the payout
   patterns can be achieved.
           In the video slot machine, the video slot machine may have a bonus game stage
   in which attacking, capturing, or acquiring is performed on a target object or a target
   character,
10         the character may be the target object or the target character appearing in the
   bonus game stage.
           According to this configuration, the target object or the target character, which is
   the target of the action in the bonus game stage, can appear as the identifiably displayed
   object, that is, the character corresponding to the special position in the normal game
15 screen of the slot game before the bonus game stage. Thus, the game world can be
   more consistent between the normal game screen of the slot game and the bonus game
   stage, whereby a video slot machine with a consistent display content can be
   implemented.
           According to another embodiment of the invention, there is provided a server
20 system comprising: at least one processor or circuit programmed to execute as:
           scroll displaying symbol columns of N reels (N ;> 3) in a reel display area
   including two or more symbol stop positions for each of the reels to control progress of
   a video slot game in a user terminal;
           performing lottery to determine a special position in the symbol stop positions;
25         identifiably displaying the special position in the reel display area, before the
   scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops; and
           performing a reward process when a symbol stopped at the special position,
                                                10

   when the scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops, the symbol being a
   predetermined chance symbol.
           According to this configuration, a server system having the effects described
   above can be implemented as a server system that enables a video slot game to be
 5 played with a user terminal.
           According to another embodiment of the invention, there is provided a
   computer system comprising: a user terminal receiving a user operation; and a server
   system,
           the server system comprising at least one processor or circuit programmed to
10 execute as:
           scroll displaying symbol columns of N reels (N > 3) in a reel display area
   including two or more symbol stop positions for each of the reels to control progress of
   a video slot game in the user terminal;
           performing lottery to determine a special position in the symbol stop positions;
15         identifiably displaying the special position in the reel display area, before the
   scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops; and
           performing a reward process when a symbol stopped at the special position,
   when the scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops, the symbol being a
   predetermined chance symbol.
20         The "computer system" as used herein may be a system including a single
   computer, and may be a system including a plurality of computers that are connected to
   each other to be capable of performing data communications with each other through a
   communication line.
           According to this configuration, a computer system that can achieve the effects
25 described above can be implemented.
                                                11

           Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described below. It is a
   matter of course that modes to which the present invention can be applied is not limited
   to the embodiments described below.
           [First embodiment]
 5         FIG. 1 is a front outer view illustrating an example of a configuration of a video
   slot machine 1300 to which the present invention is applied. The video slot machine
    1300 includes a casing 1301 having a lower portion provided with an operation board
    1302 having an upper surface provided with a spin button 1304.
           The video slot machine 1300 further includes a token input device 1340, a paper
10 money input device 1342, and a medium reading device 1344. The token input device
   1340, serving as a playing fee input section, is provided to be farther than the operation
   board 1302, and is used for inputting a token 98. The medium reading device 1344
   reads information, required for paying the playing fee, from an electronic payment
   medium 99.
15         For example, the electronic payment medium 99 may be implemented with an
   admission ticket issued by a manager of the video slot machine 1300, credit card,
   prepaid card, integrated circuit (IC) card, smartphone, a wearable computer, or the like.
   In the example illustrated in FIG. 1, the electronic payment medium 99 is illustrated to
   be a card type and the medium reading device 1344 is illustrated to have a card insert
20 port. Note that the electronic payment medium 99 and the medium reading device 1344
   may establish connection via near field communications to write and read information
   to and from the electronic payment medium 99.
           The video slot machine 1300 further includes a touch panel 1306 and a speaker
   1310 in an upper portion of the casing 1301. The touch panel 1306 functions as an
25 image display device and a contact position input device. The casing 1301 incorporates
   a control board 1350.
                                                 12

           The control board 1350 is a board dedicated for the video slot machine 1300.
   The control board 1350 includes a microprocessor of various types (such as a central
   processing unit (CPU) 1351, a graphics processing unit (GPU), and a digital signal
   processor (DSP)),
 5 an IC memory 1352 of various types (such as a video random access memory (VRAM),
   a RAM, and a read only memory (ROM)), an interface (I/F) controller 1357, and the
   like.
           For example, the I/F controller 1357 includes 1) a driver circuit for the touch
   panel 1306, 2) a circuit that receives a signal from the spin button 1304, 3) an output
10 amplifier circuit that outputs a sound signal to the speaker 1310, 4) a signal input/output
   circuit for playing fee input sections such as the token input device 1340, the paper
   money input device 1342, and the medium reading device 1344, and the like.
           These elements of the control board 1350 are electrically connected to each
   other via a bus circuit, to be capable of exchanging data and signals. The control board
15 1350 may be partially or entirely implemented with an Application Specific Integrated
   Circuit (ASIC), a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), or a System on a Chip (SoC).
           The control board 1350 executes a predetermined program to perform a
   calculation process, and enables slot play by controlling the components of the video
   slot machine 1300 in accordance with an operation input using the spin button 1304 and
20 the touch panel 1306. The video slot machine 1300 has a required program and various
   types of setting data stored in advance in the IC memory 1352. Note that the program
   and data can be downloaded from an external device every time the machine is started.
   In such a configuration, the video slot machine 1300 may include a communication
   device 1353.
25         The control board 1350 performs control so that the video slot machine 1300
   generates an image on a game screen of a slot game based on a result of the operation
   input using the spin button 1304, the touch panel 1306, or the like, causes the touch
                                                13

   panel 1306 to display the image, generates a sound signal corresponding to sound
   effects and operation sounds, and causes the speaker 1310 to emit the sound. Thus, the
   player can enjoy the slot game by operating the spin button 1304 while watching the
   game screen displayed on the touch panel 1306 and listening to the game sound from
 5 the speaker 1310.
           One or two of the token input device 1340, the paper money input device 1342,
   and the medium reading device 1344 may be omitted. Furthermore, a playing fee input
   section other than these may be employed. The video slot machine 1300 includes a
   power source device (not illustrated) and the like as appropriate.
10         FIG. 2 is a diagram illustrating an example of a game screen according to the
   present embodiment.      A game screen W2 according to the present embodiment is
   displayed on the touch panel 1306.        The game screen W2 according to the present
   embodiment includes a reel display area 20 and an information display section 30.
           The reel display area 20 includes two or more symbol stop positions for each of
15 N reels (N > 3). Symbol columns of the reels are displayed in a scrolling manner so that
   an image displayed replicates actual spinning reels.
           In the present embodiment, a design illustrated in FIG. 3 is employed where five
   video reels (first video reel 21 to fifth video reel 25) are arranged in a left and right
   direction, and three of continuous symbols 8 in a column of symbols 8 (symbol column)
20 set to each video reel is displayed on the reel display area 20. Thus, in, the present
   embodiment, a total of 15 (5 x 3) symbol stop positions 7 (areas sectionalized with
   broken lines in the figure) are prepared.
           Edges of the video reels, clearly illustrated in FIG. 3, are not displayed in the
   reel display area 20. The number of symbols, in the symbol column of each video reel,
25 to be displayed in the reel display area 20 can be set as appropriate. Thus, the number
   of symbol stop positions 7 can be set as appropriate. For example, the first video reel
   21 and the second video reel 22 may each have three symbol stop positions 7, whereas
                                                14

   the third video reel 23 to the fifth video reel 25 may each have four symbol stop
   positions 7. The number of symbol stop positions 7 may be variable.
           The symbol 8 set to be in the video reels (the first video reel 21 to the fifth video
   reel 25) according to the present embodiment may include a scatter symbol 8s and a
 5 chance symbol 8c.
           The design of the chance symbol 8c can be set as appropriate. The slot game
   according to the present invention is based on a theme of a shooting game of shooting
   down a character 6 (see FIG. 2). Thus, the chance symbol 8c is designed based on a
   theme of a target scope. An area inside an outer circumference circle of the symbol is
10 transparent except for a cross part, and thus a player can see the background through the
   symbol.
           FIG. 4 is a diagram illustrating an example of the character 6 according to the
   present embodiment. The character 6 is designed to have a size including one or a
   plurality of symbol stop positions 7 adjacent to each other. In the present embodiment,
15 the character 6 is designed to have a head section, a body section, and a leg section each
   including one of three continuous symbol stop positions 7 that are adjacent to each other
   in a vertical direction (a symbol flowing direction of the video reel: rotation display
   direction: scroll display direction).   The character 6 includes at least two types of
   characters including a normal character 6a and a special character 6b.
20         The design, the size, and the type of the character 6 may be set as appropriate to
   be different from those described above, depending on the theme of the slot game or a
   setting in the game world. For example, the height of the character 6 is not limited to
   that for three symbol stop positions as in the present embodiment, and a character of a
   type with a height for two symbol stop positions may be provided. The width of the
25 character 6 is not limited to that for a single reel as in the present embodiment, and a
   character of a type wide enough to include two or more adjacent reels may be provided.
   The character 6 may be designed as a group of a plurality of characters.
                                                15

           Referring back to FIG. 2, the information display section 30 in the game screen
   W2 includes 1) a menu icon 31 for performing an operation of calling a menu, 2)
   remaining credits 32 indicating an amount of betting units (illustrated as "CREDITS" in
   the figure, and is hereinafter referred to as "credit") possessed by the player, 3) bet
 5 setting display 33 indicating the current bet setting status, 4) acquired credit 34
   indicating the amount of credits acquired after the game has started, and 5) a rate
   display section 35 displaying what is known as a coin value indicating a premium per
   bet (or one coin).
           FIG. 5 to FIG. 6 are each a series of diagrams illustrating how the game screen
10 of the video slot game according to the present embodiment transitions. Note that only
   a limited area around the reel display area 20 in the game screen is illustrated for easier
   understanding.
           As illustrated in an example of a game screen W4 in FIG. 5(1), when the player
   presses the spin button 1304, the symbol columns in the video reels are displayed in a
15 scrolling manner to circulate in a predetermined direction, so that the first video reel 21
   to the fifth video reel 25 (see FIG. 3) replicate actual spinning reels in the reel display
   area 20.
           Next, as illustrated in an example of a game screen W6 in FIG. 5(2), the
   characters 6 appear to be displayed on the background of the reel display area 20. For
20 each play, a random lottery process (for example, a process of making determination
   under a rule set in advance, based on values of random numbers generated by random
   number generation) is performed to determine 1) whether or not the character 6 appears,
   2) the type of the appearing characters 6, and 3) the position (special position) of the
   character 6.
25         When the character 6 is determined to appear, control is performed so that two
   characters 6 appear at once and each appear behind the first video reel 21 to the fifth
   video reel 25. The character 6 that has appeared has the head section, the body section,
                                                16

   and the leg section respectively corresponding to an upper section, a middle section, and
   a lower section of the symbol stop positions 7 prepared to be in a 5 (horizontal) x 3
   (vertical) arrangement. Thus, the character 6 functions as a special position identifiably
   displaying object with which three continuous special positions are identifiably
 5 displayed.
           The character 6 that has appeared has an operation controlled to attack the player.
   For example, the character 6 having a gun has an operation controlled to fire the gun.
   The character 6 with a sword has an operation controlled to move toward the player
   (move closer in the screen).
10          Next, as illustrated in an example of a game screen W8 in FIG. 5(2), after the
   characters 6 have appeared, display control is performed so that the first video reel 21 to
   the fifth video reel 25 displayed on the reel display area 20 sequentially stop.
            Then, when all of the video reels stop as illustrated in an example of a game
   screen W10 in FIG. 6(1), a tentative outcome of the slot machine is determined. When
15 the symbols stopped in the reel display area 20 include the chance symbol 8c,
   replacement of symbols with a reward symbol 10 is performed in accordance with the
   position of the stopped symbol.
            Specifically, as illustrated in FIG. 6(1) when the chance symbol 8c stops at the
   symbol stop position without the character 6, that is, at a position other than the special
20 position, one chance symbol 8c is replaced with one reward symbol 10 to be displayed
   as illustrated in FIG. 6(2). Thus, the outcome of the reels is determined.
            In the present embodiment, the reward symbol 10 is fixed to the wild symbol.
   However, this should not be construed in a limiting sense. The reward symbol 10 may
   be fixed to a symbol advantageous to the player, such as a scatter symbol for example.
25 Alternatively, a plurality of types of replacement options, such as the wild symbol and
   the scatter symbol may be prepared, and the reward symbol 10 may be replaced with a
   replacement option selected by lottery at each replacement occasion.
                                                 17

           Replacement display effect of shooting the target scope with a gun is displayed,
   and then the replacement to the reward symbol 10 is completed. Specifically, sound of
   a gunshot is emitted, and display control is performed to provide display effect of a
   bullet hitting the background, which can be seen through the chance symbol 8c, to leave
 5 a bullet mark.     Preferably, the bullet mark is included in the design of the reward
   symbol 10.
           When the chance symbol 8c stops at the symbol stop position 7 overlapped with
   the character 6, that is, when the chance symbol 8c stops at the special position, the
   number of reward symbols 10 obtained by the replacing and the relative positional
10 relationship between the symbols to be replaced, that is, a replacing pattern is changed
   in accordance with the section of the character 6 corresponding to the symbol stop
   position 7 at which the chance symbol 8c has stopped.
            Specifically, when the chance symbol 8c stops at the symbol stop position 7
   corresponding to the leg section of the character 6 as illustrated in FIG. 7 (FIG. 7(1)),
15 gun shooting display effect including destroying the character 6 (destroying display
   effect: for example, display control with which the character 6 is hit by a bullet and
   disappears in a collapsing manner) is performed, and then a replacing pattern is applied
   in which the chance symbol 8c and other symbols on upper right and left of the chance
   symbol 8c determined as replacement targets are replaced with the reward symbol 10
20 (FIG. 7(2)).
           When the chance symbol 8c stops at the symbol stop position 7 corresponding to
   the body section of the character 6 as illustrated in FIG. 8 (FIG. 8(1)), the gun shooting
   display effect including destroying the character 6 is similarly performed, and then a
   replacing pattern is applied in which the chance symbol 8c and other symbols in the
25 video reel including the chance symbol 8c determined as the replacement targets are
   replaced with the reward symbol 10 (FIG. 8(2)). The replacement targets may be only
   those displayed in the reel display area 20 or may further include other symbols not
                                                18

   displayed in the reel display area 20. A result of payout calculation or the like is the
   same in both cases.
            In the example illustrated in FIG. 8, the replacing of the three symbols is clearly
   indicated with the symbol stop positions 7 corresponding to the replacement targets
 5 each individually replaced with the reward symbol 10, and the outer circumferences of
   the reward symbols 10 highlighted (see FIG. 8(2)). Here, the three reward symbols 10
   are continuously arranged in the vertical direction as a result of the replacement, and
   thus a replacing pattern may be applied in which one large reward symbol lla (one
   large wild symbol designed to be provided over the three symbol stop positions 7) may
10 be provided as a result of the replacement.
            As illustrated in FIG. 9, when the character 6 is the normal character 6a and the
   chance symbol 8c stops at the symbol stop position 7 corresponding to the head section
   of the character 6 (FIG. 9(1)), the gun shooting display effect including destroying the
   character 6 is performed, and then a replacing pattern is applied in which the
15 replacement targets to be replaced with the reward symbols 10 are set to be the chance
   symbol 8c, the other symbols in the video reel (the fourth video reel 24 in the illustrated
   example) including the chance symbol 8c, and symbols at predetermined relative
   positions in adjacent video reels (the third video reel 23 and the fifth video reel 25 in the
   illustrated example) adjacent to the video reel including the chance symbol 8c (FIG.
20 9(2)).
            In the example illustrated in FIG. 9, the replacement targets are set to form a
   shape of the letter T based on the chance symbol 8c. However, the relative positional
   relationship among the replacement target symbols is not limited to this. For example,
   the replacing pattern for setting the relative positional relationship of the replacement
25 targets to be in a cross shape or an inverted V shape with the chance symbol 8c at the
   top end may be employed.
                                                 19

            As illustrated in FIG. 10, when the character 6 is the special character 6b and the
   chance symbol 8c stops at position corresponding to the head section of the character 6,
   the gun shooting display effect including destroying the character 6 is performed, and
   then a replacing pattern is applied in which the replacement targets to be replaced with
 5 the reward symbols 10 are set to be the chance symbol 8c, all the symbols in the video
   reel (the fourth video reel 24 in the illustrated example) including the chance symbol 8c
   in the reel display area 20, and all the symbols in other video reels in a predetermined
   range (the third video reel 23 and the fifth video reel 25 at adjacent positions in the
   illustrated example) in the reel display area 20. Thus, in this embodiment, a total of
10 nine symbols are replaced.
            In the example illustrated in FIG. 10, the replacing of the nine symbols is clearly
   indicated with the symbol stop positions 7 corresponding to the replacement targets
   each individually replaced with the reward symbol 10, and the outer circumferences of
   the reward symbols 10 highlighted. Here, the nine reward symbols 10 are arranged in
15 the vertical and the horizontal direction as a result of the replacement, and thus a
   replacing pattern may be applied in which one large reward symbol 11 c designed to be
   provided over the nine symbol stop positions 7 may be provided as a result of the
   replacement.
            The replacing pattern illustrated in FIG. 10 might result in symbols outside the
20 reel display area 20 being the replacement targets. In such a case, as illustrated in FIG.
   11, setting positions of the replacement targets are offset (shifted) so that all the
   replacement targets can be within the reel display area 20.
            Specifically, FIG. 11(1) illustrates an example where the chance symbol 8c has
   stopped at the head section of the special character 6b in the fifth video reel 25. Direct
25 application of the replacing pattern as illustrated in FIG. 10 results in a less
   advantageous result for the player with only a total of six symbols in two reels of the
   fourth video reels 24 and the fifth video reel 25 replaced as illustrated in FIG. 11(2).
                                                 20

   Thus, as illustrated in FIG. 11(3), the setting positions of the replacement targets are
   offset toward the left into the screen by a distance corresponding to a single reel so that
   all the nine replacement targets can be within the reel display area 20. Thus, the nine
   symbols in the third video reel 23 to the fifth video reel 25 are set as the replacement
 5 targets. This process is referred to as "replacement target position offsetting".
            The replacement target position offsetting might result in the symbol stop
   positions to be the replacement targets overlapping as illustrated in FIG. 12.
            Specifically, FIG. 12(1) illustrates the chance symbol 8c stopped at the head
   section of the character 6(6b) in each of the third video reel 23 and the fifth video reel
10 25. In this situation, the replacement target position offsetting illustrated in FIG. 11
   results in the symbol stop positions corresponding to the replacement target overlapping
   in the third video reel 23 and the fourth video reel 24 as illustrated in FIG. 12(2). In
   other words, the reels corresponding to the replacement target overlap. This can be
   regarded as setting a plurality of reward symbols 10 at a single stop position.
15          Thus, when a single symbol stop position 7 is redundantly selected as the
   replacement target with a single spinning (single play), an overlapping reward symbol
    12 is identifiably displayed as illustrated in FIG. 12(3), with the payout changed.
            For example, FIG. 12 illustrates an example of a winning combination with rows
   each including five symbols in the horizontal direction based on the reward symbols 10
20 in the second video reel 22 and the third video reel 23, based on a position of a symbol
   8d with a design of a carrot. In this example, the standard multiplier of the winning
   combination with rows each including five symbols in the horizontal direction is x10.
   Furthermore, a bonus multiplier of x2 is set for the symbol stop position 7, contributing
   to the pay, redundantly selected as the replacement target.            Thus, the payout is
25 calculated based on the multiplier of x20 (10 x 2). The bonus multiplier is not limited
   to 2 and may be set as appropriate. For example, the multiplier may be determined
                                                  21

   based on a predetermined function to increase as the number of overlapping symbol
   stop positions 7 or the number of overlapping reels increases.
           In the video slot according to the present embodiment, a bonus game stage can
   be played when the outcome is determined to include three or more scatter symbols 8s
 5 (see FIG. 2) in the reel display area 20.
           FIG. 13 illustrates a game screen W12 representing an example of the bonus
   game stage according to the present embodiment. In this example, the player plays a
   game of touching and selecting one of a predetermined number of characters 6
   displayed over the entire screen of a touch panel 1306 to attack the selected character 6.
10 The characters 6 are allocated with different bonus credits set in advance. When the
   player performs a selection operation, display effect of shooting down the character 6
   selected is performed, and the bonus credit allocated to the character 6 is paid out to the
   player. Then, the bonus game is terminated. After the bonus game ends, the game
   screen returns to a normal display of the slot game (see FIG. 2).
15         It is a matter of course that the details of the bonus game stage can be set as
   appropriate, as long as the details conform to the theme of the slot game or the game
   world setting. Specifically, actions such as attacking, capturing, collecting, saving, and
   acquiring are performed on a target object or a target character in the slot game.
           [Configuration]
20         FIG. 14 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of the
   video slot machine 1300 according to the present embodiment. The video slot machine
   1300 according to the present embodiment includes an operation input section 100, a
   processor section 200p, a sound output section 390, an image display section 392, and
   an information storage section 500d. When the video slot machine 1300 needs to
25 communicate with an external device, the control board 1350 further includes a
   communication unit 394 as appropriate.
                                                22

           The operation input section 100 is for inputting various operations by the player.
   This corresponds to the spin button 1304 and the touch panel 1306 in FIG. 1.
           The processor section 200p is implemented with electronic parts such as a
   microprocessor (e.g., CPU and GPU), an ASIC, and an IC memory.                The processor
 5 200p performs input/output control to exchange data with each of the functional
   sections including the operation input section 100 and the information storage section
   500d. The processor section 200p executes various calculation processes based on a
   predetermined program or data, an operation input signal from the operation input
   section 100 to entirely control the operation of the video slot machine 1300.
10         The processor section 200p according to the present embodiment includes a
   game management section 230, a timer section 280, a sound generation section 290, and
   an image generation section 292. Note that functional sections other than these may be
   included as appropriate. When the video slot machine 1300 needs to communicate with
   an external device, a communication control section 294 may further be provided.
15         The game management section.230 performs various processes related to
   execution and management of the video slot game in which a symbol column of each of
   N reels (N > 3) is displayed in a scrolling manner in the reel display area having two
   symbol stop positions or more.        Specifically, the game management section 230
   according to the present embodiment includes a special position lottery section 231, an
20 identifiable display control section 232, and a reward process execution section 233.
           The special position lottery section 231 performs a lottery to determine the
   special position in the symbol stop positions 7 (see FIG. 3). In the present embodiment,
   this corresponds to 1) an appearing/absence determining lottery process for determining
   whether or not to make the character 6 appear, and 2) an appearing position determining
25 lottery process for determining a reel the background of which to include the appearing
   character 6. The latter lottery process is substantially equivalent to a lottery process for
   determining the special position.
                                                23

            The identifiable display control section 232 identifiably displays the special
   position in the reel display area before the scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops.
   In the present embodiment, this corresponds to 1) a type selection lottery process for
   selecting the type of the character 6 that appears, 2) an identifiable displaying process
 5 for displaying the character 6 of the selected types so that the character 6 appears at the
   special position in the reel display area 20, and 3) a post-appearing operation control
   process.
            The reward process execution section 233 performs a reward process when a
   chance symbol stops at the special position when the scroll displaying of the reels
10 (symbol columns) ends.
            Specifically, the reward process execution section 233 performs the reward
   process including: 1) a first replacement process for replacing a chance symbol that has
   stopped at the special position in the reel with a predetermined reward symbol, and 2) a
   second replacement process of replacing symbols in the reel including the chance
15 symbol stopped at the special position as well as symbols in adjacent reels with the
   predetermined reward symbols.
            Specifically, the second replacement process includes replacing symbols in X
   continuous reels (N > X > 2) including the reels including the chance symbol that has
   stopped at the special position with the reward symbols, and changing the payout when
20 the reels corresponding to the replacement target overlap.
            In the present embodiment, the example illustrated in FIG. 8 corresponds to the
   first replacement process and the examples illustrated in FIG. 9 or FIG. 10 correspond
   to the second replacement process. A configuration of performing only one of the first
   replacement process and the second replacement process may be employed.
25          The reward process execution section 233 performs a first reward process when
   the chance symbol stops at a position overlapping with a first section of the character,
                                                24

   and performs a second reward process when the chance symbol stops at a position
   overlapping with a second section of the character.
           Specifically, the first reward process at least includes replacing a first number of
   symbols, including the chance symbol stopped at the special position, with the
 5 predetermined reward symbol. The second reward process at least includes replacing a
   second number of symbols, larger than the first number of symbols, including the
   chance symbol stopped at the special position with the reward symbol.
           In the present embodiment, this corresponds to selecting a replacing pattern in
   accordance the section of the character 6 (the head section, the body section, or the leg
10 section) corresponding to the special position at which the chance symbol 8c has
   stopped, determining the replacement target based on the replacing pattern thus selected,
   and replacing the replacement target with the reward symbol 10.              In the present
   embodiment, the first section corresponds to the body section or the leg section, and the
   example illustrated in FIG. 7 or FIG. 8 corresponds to the first reward process. The
15 second section corresponds to the head section, and the example illustrated in FIG. 9 or
   FIG. 10 corresponds to the second reward process.
           The timer section 280 uses a system clock to obtain the current date and time, a
   time limit, and the like.
           The sound generation section 290 is implemented with an integrated circuit (IC)
20 or by executing software that generates sound data and performs decoding, and
   generates or decodes sound data on a sound related to the video slot, background music
   (BGM), and a character voice.
           The sound output section 390 outputs sound based on the input sound signal.
   The sound output section 390 corresponds to the speaker 1310 in FIG. 1.
25         The image generation section 292 can generate a game screen and the like. The
   image signal for displaying the game screen can be output to the image display section
   392.
                                                25

           The image display section 392 displays the game screen based on the image
   signals input from the image generation section 292. The image display section 392
   may be implemented with an image display device such as a flat panel display, a
   cathode ray tube (CRT), a projector, or a head-mounted display. The image display
 5 section 392 corresponds to the touch panel 1306 in the example illustrated in FIG. 1.
           The communication control section 294 performs a data communication process
   for data communications, and exchanges data with an external device through the
   communication section 394.
           The communication section 394 connects to a communication line to implement
10 communications. The communication section 394 is implemented with a transceiver, a
   modem, a terminal adapter (TA), a jack for a communication cable, a control circuit,
   and the like.
           The information storage section 500d stores a program and various types of data
   for implementing various functions of the processor section 200p for controlling the
15 video slot machine 1300. The information storage section 500d is used as a work area
   for the processor section 200p, and temporarily stores the results of calculations
   performed by the processor section 200p based on various programs. The function of
   the information storage section 500d is implemented with an IC memory (e.g., RAM
   and ROM), a magnetic disk (e.g., hard disk), an optical disk (e.g., CD-ROM and DVD),
20 an online storage, or the like corresponding to the IC memory 1352 in the control board
   1350 in the example illustrated in FIG. 1. When the video slot machine 1300 can
   communicate with an external device, the function may be implemented with an
   external storage prepared on a network.
           FIG. 15 is a diagram illustrating an example of a program and data stored in the
25 information storage section 500d according to the present embodiment.                 The
   information storage section 500d stores therein in advance, a slot game program 507,
   first reel symbol column data 511, second reel symbol column data 512, third reel
                                               26

   symbol column data 513, fourth reel symbol column data 514, fifth reel symbol column
   data 515, character defining data 520, reward symbol defining data 522, replacement
   pattern defining data 530, and bonus game stage data 550.
           The information storage section 500d stores therein data, sequentially generated
 5 and managed, including play data 700 and current date and time 800. The information
   storage section 500d may further store therein various types of information such as a
   timer, a counter, and various flags.
           The slot game program 507 is a program read and executed by the processor
   section 200p for implementing functions of the game management section 230. The
10 program may include programs for implementing the functions of the sound generation
   section 290, the image generation section 292, and the communication control section
   294.
           The first reel symbol column data 511 to the fifth reel symbol column data 515
   respectively define the symbol column for the first video reel 21 to the fifth video reel
15 25 (see FIG. 3).
           The character defining data 520 defines an identifiably displayed object at the
   special position, and is prepared for each type of character 6 (see FIG. 4).         One
   character defining data 520 includes model data and texture data for displaying the
   corresponding type of character 6 on the game screen as well as motion data for
20 controlling operations of the character 6.
           The reward symbol defining data 522 defines the reward symbol 10.            The
   reward symbol defining data 522, which defines the reward symbol 10, may also be
   prepared for each type of large reward symbols 11 a to 11 c (see FIG. 8 to FIG. 10) and
   for the overlapping reward symbol 12 (see FIG. 12), in the game using these symbols.
25         The replacement pattern defining data 530 defines a pattern for replacing the
   chance symbol 8c and other symbols in its periphery with the reward symbol 10.
                                              27

            As illustrated in FIG. 16 and FIG. 17, one replacement pattern defining data 530
   includes an applying condition 531 defining a condition for applying the defining data,
   replacement target relative position defining data 536, and replacement target position
   offset setting 538. Not that other types of data can be included. FIG. 16 illustrates an
 5 example of the replacement pattern defining data 530 corresponding to the example
   illustrated in FIG. 7. FIG. 17 illustrates an example of the replacement pattern defining
   data 530 corresponding to the examples illustrated in FIGs. 10 and 11.
            The applying condition 531 according to the present embodiment includes a
   character type condition 532 and a section condition 534. Note that other types of
10 condition can be included as appropriate.
            The character type condition 532 is a condition related to the type of the
   character 6.
            The section condition 534 is a condition related to the section of the character 6
   corresponding to the symbol stop position at which the chance symbol 8c has stopped.
15 In other words, the condition is related to positional coordinates of the special position
   at which the chance symbol 8c has stopped.
            The replacement target relative position defining data 536 defines relative
   positional relationship among a reference position, which is the stopped position of the
   chance symbol 8c, and symbols, to be replacement targets, other than the chance symbol
20 8c. Thus, the data may be regarded as defining a distribution pattern of the reward
   symbols 10 in the reel display area 20, after the replacement.
            In FIGs. 16 and 17, a rectangular frame in which the chance symbol 8c is
   illustrated represents the symbol stop position where the chance symbol 8c has stopped,
   and rectangular frames including the word "target" represent the symbol stop positions
25 of the other symbols to be the replacement targets in the periphery of the symbol stop
   position of the chance symbol 8c.
                                                28

           How the replacement target relative position defining data 536 is defined is not
   limited to that illustrated in FIGs. 16 and 17, and other modes may be employed.
   Furthermore, the detail of the definition of the replacement target relative position
   defining data 536 can be set as appropriate. For example, a "direction" may be set in
 5 the replacement target relative position defining data 536. Thus, defining data defining
   the "target" to be at symbol stop positions in the direction thus set from the reference
   position, which is the stop position of the chance symbol 8c, may be employed.
           The replacement target position offset setting 538 defines whether or not to
   perform the offset control so that all the replacement targets can be within the reel
10 display area 20, when a range of the replacement target, defined by the replacement
   target relative position defining data 536, spreads out of the reel display area 20. The
   replacement target position offset setting 538 in FIG. 16 is set to be "OFF".          The
   replacement target position offset setting 538 illustrated in FIG. 17, corresponding to
   the examples illustrated in FIGs. 10 and 11, is set to be "ON".
15         Referring back to FIG. 15, the bonus game stage data 550 includes various types
   of data for implementing the bonus game stage (see FIG. 13).
           The play data 700 according to the present embodiment includes various types
   of data describing a slot game progress status, and includes remaining credits 702, bet
   setting data 704, an acquired credit amount 706, reel outcome data 708, an appearing
20 character list 710, a character appearing position list 712, reel display control data 714,
   character control data 716, and bonus game control data 718. Note that other data can
   be included as appropriate.
           The reel outcome data 708 is a list of types of symbols, for each symbol stop
   position, displayed in the reel display area 20 when the video reels stop.
25         The appearing character list 710 stores therein results of selecting the appearing
   characters 6. Although type information of two characters 6 is stored in the present
   embodiment, when "not appearing" is determined with the lottery to determine whether
                                                29

   or not the character 6 appears, the list includes a predetermined value indicating that the
   type is not set.
            The character appearing position list 712 is a list of identification information on
   a video reel corresponding to the appearing position of the character 6. In other words,
 5 the character appearing position list 712 is a list of coordinates of the special position, in
   the symbol stop positions 7 (see FIG. 3) in the reel display area.
            The reel display control data 714 is a data set describing statuses of the video
   reels displayed in the reel display area 20, and is a list in which the position and the type
   of the symbol displayed in the reel display area 20 are associated with each other. The
10 control data sequentially changes while the video reels are spinning, and provides a
   result matching the reel outcome data 708 when the video reels stop spinning.
            The character control data 716 includes various types of control data for
   displaying the character 6 in the game screen.
            The bonus game control data 718 includes various types of control data for
15 playing the bonus game stage.
            [Operations]
            Next, operations of the video slot machine 1300 according to the present
   embodiment are described.
            FIG. 18 and FIG. 19 are each a flowchart illustrating a flow of a process
20 performed by the video slot machine 1300. First of all, the video slot machine 1300
   initializes the bet setting and the like (step S10). Specifically, the number of betting
   lines is reset to "1", and the acquired credit amount 706 is reset to "0". Then, the video
   slot machine 1300 causes the touch panel 1306 to display an initial screen of the slot
   game (step S12). The initial screen is a screen that is what is known as a "player wait
25 mode" and "attract mode".
            Next, the video slot machine 1300 receives a credit input (step S20).
   Specifically, the remaining credits 702 (see FIG. 15) is incremented at a predetermined
                                                 30

   rate, based on the number of tokens 98 (see FIG. 2) input to the token input device 1340
   and the amount of paper money input to the paper money input device 1342. When the
   medium reading device 1344 reads the electronic payment medium 99, a designated
   amount of electronic payment is received and the remaining credits 702 (see FIG. 15) is
 5 incremented at a predetermined rate, based on the payment amount.
           When the remaining credits 702 are not smaller than the playable lower limit
   (TRUE in step S22), the video slot machine 1300 receives the bet setting (for example,
   the change in the number of betting lines), and updates the bet setting data 704 (see FIG.
   15) (step S24).
10         When a predetermined credit withdrawal operation is detected (NO in step S30
   and YES in step S32), the video slot machine 1300 performs a withdrawal process of
   paying out the credits in the amount corresponding to the remaining credits 702 (step
   S34).
           When an operation on the spin button 1304, that is, a spin operation is detected
15 (YES in step S30), the video slot machine 1300 consumes the credit for the playing fee
   based on the current bet setting (step S36), and then performs a lottery to determine the
   reel outcome and the special position (step S40).
           How the reel outcome is determined can be selected as appropriate.            For
   example, five random numbers corresponding to the first video reel 21 to the fifth video
20 reel 25 are generated. Then, ranges, each used for picking out three continuous symbols
   in the symbol column, are determined, based on the random numbers, to be shifted from
   each other. The picking out range corresponds to the range of the symbol column to be
   displayed in the reel display area 20. The result of this process is stored in the reel
   outcome data 708 (see FIG. 15).
25         In the present embodiment, the special position is determined by 1) the
   appearing/absence determining lottery process for determining whether or not to make
   an enemy character appear, 2) a type selecting lottery process for determining a type of
                                               31

   the enemy character that appears, and 3) a special position lottery process for
   determining the appearing position for each enemy character that appears.
           The lottery processes each include generating random numbers and making
   determination by comparing the generated random numbers with a random number
 5 range for each lottery result. The results of the appearing/absence determining lottery
   process and the type selecting lottery process are stored in the appearing character list
   710, and a result of the special position lottery process is stored in the character
   appearing position list 712 (see FIG. 15).
           The special position lottery process according to the present embodiment
10 corresponds to selecting a video reel the background of which to include the appearing
   character 6. Specifically, the character 6 according to the present embodiment has a
   height corresponding to the number of symbol stop positions arranged in the reel
   spinning direction in the reel display area 20, that is, a height equivalent to three symbol
   stop positions. Thus, random numbers are generated for each character 6 that appears,
15 and the video reel the background of which to include the appearing character 6 is
   determined based on the random numbers.             When the character 6 with a height
   corresponding to two symbol stop positions 2 or less is appeared, the video reel the
   background of which to include the appearing character 6 is determined and then
   whether the head section is arranged at the symbol stop position corresponding to the
20 upper section or at the symbol stop position corresponding to the middle section in the
   reel display area 20 may be determined with random numbers generated.
           The random number may be generated in various ways for the lottery. As a
   matter of course, a method other than that described above may be employed. For
   example, each lottery may be allocated with the number of digits (order) and a random
25 number with the digits required for all the lotteries may be generated once.
                                                32

            Next, the video slot machine 1300 starts spinning display of the video reels
   (circulating scroll displaying of the symbol columns) (step S42). Thus, the reel display
   control data 714 sequentially changes (see FIG. 15).
            When the character 6 is set to appear, that is, when the special position is set
 5 (YES in step S44), the character 6 is started to be displayed (step S46). Thus, the
   special position is started to be identifiably displayed, and the character control data 716
   changes as appropriate (see FIG. 15).
            When a predetermined period of time elapses after the spinning display of the
   video reels has started, the video slot machine 1300 sequentially stops the spinning
10 display (circulating scroll displaying) of the video reels (step S48). This operation of
   stopping the spinning of the video reel is performed to obtain a result matching the reel
   outcome determined in step S40.
            Then, the process transitions to FIG. 19. Next, the video slot machine 1300
   executes a loop A (step S60 to step S72) for each chance symbol 8c in the reel outcome.
15          In the loop A, first of all, whether or not the chance symbol 8c, which is a
   process target, has stopped in front of the character 6 (step S62) is determined. In other
   words, whether or not the symbol stop position where the chance symbol 8c has stopped
   is set to be the special position is determined.
            When the result is NO (NO in step S62), the video slot machine 1300 replaces
20 the chance symbol 8c that is the process target with one reward symbol 10 to be
   displayed (step S64; see FIG. 6).
            When the result is YES (YES in step S62), the video slot machine 1300
   implements action display effect including gunshot to the character displayed behind the
   chance symbol 8c that is the process target and display effect of the character 6 being
25 destroyed and disappearing (step S66). Thus, the identifiable displaying of the special
   position using the character 6 is cancelled.
                                                 33

           Next, the video slot machine 1300 selects the replacement pattern to be applied
   from the replacement pattern defining data 530 (see FIG. 15 to FIG. 17) (step S68).
   Then, the replacement target is determined in the symbols displayed in the reel display
   area 20 in the stopped state in accordance with the replacement target relative position
 5 defining data 536 (see FIG. 16) corresponding to the replacement pattern thus selected,
   and the symbols thus determined are replaced with the reward symbol 10 (step S70).
   Thus, the loop A is completed (step S72).
           Before the replacing in step S70, if the replacement target position offset setting
   538 (see FIG. 16 and FIG. 17) corresponding to the replacement pattern selected in step
10 S68 is set to be "ON", the replacement target position offsetting is performed (see FIG.
   11) so that the replacement target position distribution, defined by the replacement
   target relative position defining data 536, can be entirely within the reel display area 20.
           When the loop A is completed for all the chance symbols 8c, the video slot
   machine 1300 then implements the payout process for the current slot game (step S90).
15 The obtained payout is set to the acquired credit amount 706 and added to the remaining
   credits 702.
           Next, the video slot machine 1300 determines whether or not a bonus game
   stage start condition is satisfied (step S92).     In the present embodiment, the start
   condition is determined to be satisfied when the reel outcome includes three scatter
20 symbols 8s. Note that the start condition can be set as appropriate.
           When the start condition is satisfied (YES in step S92), the video slot machine
    1300 performs bonus game stage play control (step S94), performs the bonus payout in
   accordance with the result of the play (step S96), and then prepares for the next spin to
    start.
25         The present embodiment described above can provide a video slot machine
   featuring novel display control before the outcome is determined and a wide variety of
   payout patterns.
                                                34

            Specifically, the special position is selected from the symbol stop positions 7 in
   the reel display area 20 for each play (each time the spin operation is performed), and
   the special position is identifiably displayed using the character 6. When the symbol
   stop position 7 at which the chance symbol 8c has stopped matches the special position,
 5 the outcome is determined with the chance symbol 8c and other peripheral symbols
   replaced with the reward symbol 10. In this manner, the novel display control before
   the outcome is determined can be achieved.
           The special position is not fixed, and whether or not the special position is set
   (that is, whether or not the character 6 appears) is not determined in the first place.
10 Thus, an extremely wide variety of the display control before the outcome is determined
   can be achieved, whereby the video slot machine 1300 can be more attractive.
            The distribution pattern of the replacement target position where the replacing
   with the reward symbol 10 occurs changes in accordance with various factors. The
   factors include a combination of the identifiably displayed objects (characters 6) with
15 which the special positions are identifiably displayed, relative positional relationship
   between arranged positions, and the section of the identifiably displayed object where
   the chance symbol 8c has stopped.         Thus, a wide variety of payout patterns can be
   provided, whereby the video slot machine 1300 can be even more attractive.
            The identifiably displayed object for the special position is designed to be a
20 target of an action such as an attacking or capturing in the bonus game stage.
   Furthermore, the replacement with the reward symbol 10 involves the display effect
   suggestive of an action game. Thus, the bonus stage can be more consistent with the
   game world of the slot game than in conventional video slot machines, whereby the
   video slot machine 1300 can be even more attractive.
25          [Second embodiment]
           Next, a second embodiment of the present invention is described. In the present
   embodiment, the video slot game is implemented as an online game. Components that
                                                  35

   are the same as the counterparts in the first embodiment are denoted with the same
   reference numerals, and the description thereof will be omitted. The difference from the
   first embodiment will be mainly described.
           First of all, an example of a hardware configuration according to the present
 5 embodiment is described.
           FIG. 20 is a diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of a game system
   according to the present embodiment. A game system 1000 according to the present
   embodiment is a computer system including a server system 1100 and a user terminal
    1500 that can be connected to a communication line 9 to communicate with each other
10 to exchange data. The example illustrated in FIG. 20 includes a single user terminal
    1500. However, in an actual operation, a plurality of user terminals 1500 of different
   users who play the game (hereinafter, referred to as "players") may each be connected
   to and communicate with the server system 1100. The game system 1000 as a whole
   may be referred to as a computer system, or the sever system 1100 and the user terminal
15  1500 may each be referred to as an individual computer system.
            The communication line 9 is a communication channel that enables data
   communications.      Specifically, the communication line 9 includes a communication
   network such as a local area network (LAN) using a private line (private cable) for
    direct connection, Ethernet (registered trademark), and the like, a telecommunication
20 network, a cable network, and the Internet. The communication method may be a cable
    communication method or a wireless communication method.
            The server system 1100 includes a main body device 1101, a keyboard 1106, a
    touch panel 1108, and a storage 1140. A control board 1150 is provided in the main
    body device 1101.
25          The control board 1150 includes microprocessors of various types (e.g., a CPU
    1151, a GPU, and a DSP),
                                                36

   an IC memory 1152 of various types (e.g., a VRAM, a RAM, and a ROM), and a
   communication device 1153.         The control board 1150 may partially or entirely be
   implemented with an ASIC, a FPGA, and an SoC.
           Through a calculation process performed by the control board 1150 based on a
 5 predetermined program and data, the server system 1100 implements 1) a user
   management function of managing a process related to user registration and the like and
   user-related information, 2) an online shopping function of selling tokens in the video
   slot game to the user online, and 3) a game management function of providing data
   required to play the slot play with the user terminal 1500, to manage play control on the
10 game played with the user terminal 1500. Thus, the video slot game according to the
   present embodiment is implemented as one type of client-server games.
           The server system 1100 is illustrated/described as a single server. Alternatively,
   a plurality of blade servers, in charge of various functions, may be installed while being
   connected to each other via an internal bus to be capable of performing data
15 communications with each other.        Furthermore, a plurality of independent servers,
   disposed in locations distant from each other, may perform data communications with
   each other via the communication line 9 to function as the server system 1100 as a
   whole.
           The server system 1100 is not limited to a configuration managed by a single
20 administrator,    and may be a system in which servers managed by different
   administrators are connected to each other in such a manner as to be able to
   communicate with each other.         For example, the video slot game and the online
   shopping may be managed by different administrators and implemented by difference
   servers connected to each other in such a manner as to be able to communicate with
25 each other to function as an integrated server system.
           The user terminal 1500 is a computer system, usable by a registered user serving
   as a player to play the slot play, and is an electronic device (electronic apparatus) that
                                                37

   can access the server system 1100 via the communication line 9 to implement the game.
   The user terminal 1500 according to the present embodiment is a device known as a
   smartphone.    The user terminal 1500 may also be a personal computer, a tablet
   computer, a wearable computer, or the like.
 5         The user terminal 1500 includes an arrow key 1502, a button switch 1504, the
   touch panel 1506 that functions as an image display device and a touch position input
   device, a built-in battery 1509, a speaker 1510, a microphone 1512, a control board
   1550, and a memory card reader 1542 that can write and read data to and from a
   memory card 1540 that is a computer readable storage medium. The user terminal 1500
10 further includes a power button, a volume control button, and the like (not illustrated).
   Furthermore, the user terminal 1500 may be provided with an IC card reader that can
   implement contactless writing and reading of data to and from an IC card as a credit
   card or a prepaid card usable for payment involved in playing the slot.
           The control board 1550 includes a microprocessor of various types (e.g., the
15 CPU 1551, a GPU, and a DSP), an IC memory 1552 of various types (e.g., a VRAM, a
   RAM, and a ROM), a wireless communication module 1553 for performing wireless
   communications with a mobile phone base station, a wireless LAN base station, or the
   like connected to the communication line 9, an interface circuit 1557, and the like.
           The interface circuit 1557 includes circuits such as a driver circuit that drives the
20 touch panel 1506, a circuit that receives signals from the arrow key 1502 and the button
   switch 1504, an output amplifier circuit that outputs a sound signal to the speaker 1510,
   an input signal generation circuit that generates a signal corresponding to the sound
   collected by the microphone 1512, a signal input-output circuit that inputs and outputs a
   signal to and from the memory card reader 1542, and a signal input-output circuit that
25 inputs and outputs a signal to and from a position measurement module 1555.
           The elements mounted on the control board 1550 are electrically connected with
    each other via a bus circuit or the like to be capable of exchanging data and signals.
                                                38

   The control board 1550 may partially or entirely be implemented with an ASIC, an
   FPGA, or a SoC. The control board 1550 stores a client program and various types of
   data, for implementing a function as a user terminal of the video slot game according to
   the present embodiment, in the IC memory 1552.
 5         The client program and various types of setting data are downloaded by the user
   terminal 1500 from the server system 1100 in the present embodiment. The program
   and the data may also be read from a storage medium such as the memory card 1540
   additionally provided.
           FIG. 21 is a block diagram illustrating an example of the configuration of the
10 server system 1100 according to the present embodiment.           The server system 1100
   according to the present embodiment includes an operation input section 100s, a server
   processing section 200s, a sound output section 390s, an image display section 392s, a
   communication section 394s, and a server storage section 500s.
           The operation input section 100s is for inputting various operations for
15 management. The keyboard 1106 in FIG. 20 corresponds to this section.
           The server processing section 200s is implemented with electronic parts such as
   a microprocessor (e.g., a CPU and a GPU), an ASIC, and an IC memory. The server
   processing section 200s controls data exchanged between functional sections including
   the operation input section 100s and the server storage section 500s, and performs a
20 calculation process based on a predetermined program, data, the operation input signal
   from the operation input section 100s, data revived from the user terminal 1500, and the
   like to entirely control the operation of the server system 1100.
           The server processing section 200s according to the present embodiment
   includes a user management section 202, an online shopping management section 210, a
25 game management section 230, a timer section 280s, a sound generation section 290s,
   an image generation section 292s, and a communication control section 294s. Note that
   other functional sections other than these may be included as appropriate.
                                                 39

           The user management section 202 performs a process related to a user
   registration procedure and manages the data of each user associated with the account
   (user ID). In the present embodiment, the section has various functions including: 1)
   issuing an account to a registered user; 2) registration information management for
 5 registering and managing personal information for each account; 3) book keeping
   management for a payment medium consumed for paying for a charged element related
   to the video slot game (in the present embodiment, purchase of a token, playing fee for
   the slot game); and 4) play history management for managing login/logout history.
   Note that any other appropriate management function for other data associated with the
10 account can be included.
           The online shopping management section 210 is in charge of control related to
   the online shopping that is one of the charged elements, and can be implemented with a
   known online shopping technique. In the present embodiment, the player can purchase
   tokens of a video slot through online shopping.      Any other elements may be set as
15 appropriate to be sold in the online shopping.
            The timer section 280s uses a system clock to obtain the current date and time, a
   time limit, and the like.
            The sound generation section 290s is implemented with an integrated circuit
   (IC) or by executing software that generates sound data and performs decoding, and
20 generates or decodes sound data on a sound related to system management for the server
   system 1100 or related to the slot play, background music (BGM), and a character voice.
   The resultant sound signal related to the system management is output to the sound
   output section 390s.
            The sound output section 390s receives the sound signal to emit the
25 corresponding sound, and corresponds to a speaker (not illustrated) of the main body
   device 1101 or the touch panel 1108 in the example illustrated in FIG. 20.
                                               40

           The image generation section 292s can generate an image related to the system
   management for the server system 1100, a game image (or data for displaying the game
   image on the user terminal 1500), and the like.       The image related to the system
   management can be output to the image display section 392s.
 5         The image display section 392s displays various images for system management
   based on the image signals input from the image generation section 292s. The image
   display section 392s may be implemented with an image display device such as a flat
   panel display, a CRT, a projector, or a head-mounted display.        The image display
   section 392s corresponds to the touch panel 1108 in the example illustrated in FIG. 20.
10         The communication control section 294s performs a data process related to the
   data communication, and exchanges data with an external device through the
   communication section 394s. In the present embodiment, a process related to the data
   communications with the user terminal 1500 is performed.
           The communication section 394s connects to the communication line 9 to
15 implement communications. The communication section 394s is implemented with a
   transceiver, a modem, a TA, a jack for a communication cable, a control circuit, and the
   like. In the example illustrated in FIG. 20, the communication device 1153 corresponds
   to the communication section 394s.
           The server storage section 500s stores a program and various types of data for
20 implementing various functions of the server processing section 200s for entirely
   controlling the server system 1100. The server storage section 500s is used as a work
   area for the server processing section 200s, and temporarily stores the results of
   calculations performed by the server processing section 200s based on various programs.
   The function of the server storage section 500s is implemented with an IC memory (e.g.,
25 RAM and ROM), a magnetic disk (e.g., hard disk), an optical disk (e.g., CD-ROM and
   DVD), an online storage, or the like corresponding to a storage medium such as the IC
                                               41

   memory 1152 and hard disk mounted in the main body device 1101 and the storage
   1140, in the example illustrated in FIG. 20.
           FIG. 22 is a diagram illustrating an example of a program and data stored in the
   server storage section 500s according to the present embodiment. The server storage
 5 section 500s stores therein in advance, a server program 503, a distributed game client
   program 505, online product defining data 509, and game initial setting data 510.
           The server storage section 500s stores data, sequentially generated and managed,
   including user management data 600, the play data 700, and the current date and time
   800. Furthermore, the server storage section 500s may store information on a timer, a
10 counter, various flags, and the like as appropriate.
           The server program 503 is read out and executed by the sever processing section
   200s for implementing functions of the user management section 202, the online
   shopping management section 210, and the game management section 230 (see FIG.
   21).
15         The distributed game client program 505 is an original of a game client program
   provided to the user terminal 1500.
           The online product defining data 509 is data defining a product purchasable
   through the online shopping implemented with the online shopping management section
   210 (see FIG. 21).
20         The game initial setting data 510 includes various types of initial setting .data,
   defining data, and the like for executing the video slot game according to the present
   embodiment.
           The user management data 600 is prepared for each registered user, that is, for
   each player, and includes various types of data associated with the user account. In
25 other words, the data is first play information on a player related to the video slot game.
   For example, as illustrated in FIG. 23, one user management data 600 includes a unique
                                                42

   user account 601, payment medium accounting data 602, play history data 603, and
   remaining possessed token 604. Note that other data can be included as appropriate.
           The payment medium accounting data 602 serves as what is known as an
   account book storing therein information on a charged/consumed amount of the
 5 payment medium associated with the user, information on a reason for the
   charging/consumption, and information on changed date and time in association with
   each other.     This data can also be referred to as charge history data or charge
   information.
           The play history data 603 is data in which the past game played timings are
10 stored in series, and is automatically updated at a login/logout timing.
           The play data 700 according to the present embodiment basically includes the
   same configuration as that in the first embodiment, and additionally includes a player
   account 701 that indicates the player to which the play data is related as illustrated in
   FIG. 24.
15         FIG. 25 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of the user
   terminal 1500 according to the present embodiment. The user terminal 1500 according
   to the present embodiment includes an operation input section 100t, a terminal
   processing section 200t, a sound output section 390t, an image display section 392t, a
   communication section 394t, and a terminal storage section 500t.
20         The operation input section 100t outputs an operation input signal, based on
   various operations input by the player, to the terminal processing section 200t , and can
   be implemented with a push switch, a joystick, a touch pad, a track ball, an
   accelerometer, a gyro, a CCD module, or the like. The operation input section 100t
   corresponds to the arrow key 1502, the button switch 1504, and the touch panel 1506 in
25 FIG. 20.
           The terminal processing section 200t is implemented with electronic parts such
   as a microprocessor (e.g., CPU and GPU), an ASIC, and an IC memory. The terminal
                                                43

   processing section 200t performs input/output control to exchange data with each of the
   functional sections including the operation input section 100t and the terminal storage
   section 500t.    The terminal processing section 200t executes various calculation
   processes based on a predetermined program or data, the operation input signal from the
 5 operation input section 100t, and various types of data received from the sever system
   1100 to control the operation of the user terminal 1500. The terminal processing section
   200t corresponds to the control board 1550 in FIG. 20. The terminal processing section
   200t according to the present embodiment includes a user terminal calculation section
   270, a timer section 280t, a sound generation section 290t, an image generation section
10 292t, and a communication control section 294t.
           The user terminal calculation section 270 includes          an operation signal
   transmission control section 271, a game screen display control section 272, and a
   sound play control section 273.
           The operation signal transmission control section 271 performs a process of
15 transmitting various types of data and a request to the sever system 1100 in accordance
   with an operation on the operation input section l00t.
           The game screen display control section 272 performs control for displaying a
   game screen of the video slot game based on various types of data received from the
   server system 1100. In this configuration, the server system 1100 generates the image
20 of the game screen.      Alternatively, a configuration where the user terminal 1500
   generates the image may also be employed.
           The sound play control section 273 performs control to emit a sound (for
   example, sound effects, a BGM, and the like) based on various types of sound data
   received from the server system 1100.
25         For example, the sound generation section 290t is implemented with a processor
   such as a DSP or a sound synthesizing IC, an audio codec for playing a sound file, or
   the like, and generates a sound signal for sound effects, a BGM, various types of
                                                44

   operation sounds, and the like related to the video slot game, and outputs the signal thus
   generated to the sound output section 390t.
           The sound output section 390t is implemented with a device that outputs sound
   such as sound effects, a BGM, or the like, based on the sound signal received from the
 5 sound generation section 290t.      The sound output section 390t corresponds to the
   speaker 1510 in FIG. 20.
           For example, the image generation section 292t is implemented with a processor
   (e.g., a GPU or a DSP), a video signal IC, a program (e.g., video codec), a drawing
   frame IC memory (e.g., frame buffer), and the like.
10         The image generation section 292t generates an image of one game screen every
   frame (e.g., 1/60th of a second) based on the various types of data received from the
   server system 1100, and outputs the generated image signal of the game screen to the
   image display section 392t.
           The image display section 392t displays various game images based on the
15 image signals input from the image generation section 292t. The image display section
   392t may be implemented with an image display device such as a flat panel display, a
   CRT, a projector, or a head-mounted display. In the present embodiment, the touch
   panel 1506 illustrated in FIG. 20 corresponds to the image display section 392t.
           The communication control section 294t performs a data process related to the
20 data communication, and exchanges data with an external device through the
   communication section 394t.        The communication section 394t connects to the
   communication line 9 to implement communications. For example, the communication
   section 394t is implemented with a transceiver, a modem, a TA, a jack for a
   communication cable, a control circuit, and the like, and corresponds to the wireless
25 communication module 1553 in FIG. 20.
           The terminal storage section 500t stores therein a system program for
   implementing various functions for causing the terminal processing section 200t to
                                               45

   entirely control the user terminal 1500, a program and various types of data required for
   the video slot game, and the like. The terminal storage section 500t is used as a work
   area for the terminal processing section 200t, and temporarily stores a result of
   calculation performed by the terminal processing section 200t in accordance with
 5 various programs, input data received from the operation input section 100t, and the like.
   These functions are implemented with an IC memory (e.g., RAM and ROM), a
   magnetic disk (e.g., hard disk), an optical disk (e.g., CD-ROM and DVD), or the like.
   The IC memory 1552 and the memory card 1540 in the control board 1550 illustrated in
   FIG. 20 correspond to the terminal storage section 500t. The terminal storage section
10 500t may be implemented with an online storage.
           The terminal storage section 500t according to the present embodiment stores
   therein a game client program 504. Note that other data, including data in which user
   position information is stored in time series, can be included as appropriate.
           The game client program 504 is application software that implements a function
15 of the user terminal calculation section 270 when read and executed by the terminal
   processing section 200t, and may be embedded as a part of the terminal system program.
   In the present embodiment, the game client program 504 is a copy of the distributed
   game client program 505 (see FIG. 22) provided from the sever system 1100.
           The game client program 504 may be implemented with a dedicated client
20 program or with a web browser program and a plugin that implements an interactive
   image display, depending on a technique and a method for implementing the video slot
   game.
           The operation of the game system 1000 may be regarded as being executed by
   the server system 1100 through the flowcharts in FIGs. 18 and 19. The credit input
25 reception may be regarded as reception of input of a token possessed by the player or a
   confirmation operation for payment using a payment medium.
                                                46

           The present embodiment can provide the same advantageous effect as the first
   embodiment through the online game.
           [Third embodiment]
           Next, a third embodiment of the present invention is described.
 5         The present embodiment is implemented to be basically the same as the second
   embodiment, but is different from the second embodiment in that the user terminal 1500
   controls the progress of the video slot game.          The following mainly describes
   differences from the second embodiments.         Components that are the same as the
   counterparts in the first and second embodiments are denoted with the same reference
10 numerals, and the description thereof will be omitted.
           FIG. 26 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of a user
   terminal 1500B according to the present embodiment.           The user terminal 1500B
   according to the present embodiment is a terminal in which the game screen display
   control section 272 and the sound play control section 273 are omitted and the game
15 management section 230 included in the server system 1100 according to the first
   embodiment is provided instead. Specifically, the user terminal 1500B according to the
   present embodiment independently performs a calculation process related to the game
   progress and generates images of the game space.
           FIG. 27 is a diagram illustrating an example of a program and data stored in the
20 terminal storage section 500 of the user terminal 1500B according to the present
   embodiment. The terminal storage section 500 according to the present embodiment
   stores therein a game program 508. The game program 508 is a program that causes the
   terminal processing section 200 to implement the user terminal calculation section 270
   and the game management section 230 according to the present embodiment. In the
25 present embodiment, as the game management section 230 is implemented with the user
   terminal 15 00B, data from the game initial setting data 510 to the current date and time
                                               47

   800 not including the user management data 600 is stored in the terminal storage section
   500t.
           A flow of the process according to the present embodiment is basically the same
   as the flow of the process performed by the sever system 1100 according to the second
 5 embodiment, that is, the flowcharts in FIG. 18 and FIG. 19 according to the first
   embodiment. The user terminal 1500B implements the game management section 230,
   and thus the subject of each step may be changed to the server system 1100 or the user
   terminal 1500B as appropriate.      When the user terminal 1500B performs a process
   requiring the user management data 600 to be referred to, such as login, the server
10 system 1100 is requested to provide required data or perform matching, or may be
   requested to perform the entire process.
           The present embodiment can provide the same advantageous effect as the first
   and second embodiments.
           The user terminal 1500B may be partially in charge of the functions of the game
15 management section 230 in a limited manner, instead of being entirely in charge of the
   functions.
           [Modifications]
           The embodiments to which the invention is applied have been described above.
   Note that the invention is not limited thereto. Various modifications may be made as
20 appropriate, such as adding other elements, omitting some of the elements, or changing
   some of the elements.
           [First modification]
           For example, the theme and the game world of the video slot machine can be set
   differently as appropriate, and the design of the chance symbol and the identifiably
25 displayed object for the special position can be changed accordingly.
           For example, FIG. 28 illustrates an example of a game screen W14 the theme of
   which is designed to be fishing. Here, the chance symbol 8c is designed to be a float
                                                48

   floating on water.    Other symbols 8 are designed to be images indicating the water
   surface or waves. Characters 6f to be the special position identifiably displaying objects
   are designed to be images of fish or water creatures. A preferable content of the bonus
   game stage is a game of fishing or capturing fantastic large fish or fantastic water
 5 creatures.
            Other possible themes of the video slot game include attacking to a submarine, a
   ship, or a battle craft, hunting, capturing live stocks running away, saving victims,
   insect collecting, arresting criminals, and the like.
            [Second modification]
10          In the embodiment described above, the identifiable displaying of the special
   position is unchanged between the start of the displaying and the end of the reel
   spinning. Thus, the character 6 does not shift from the background of the video reel that
   is the appearing position to other video reels. Alternatively, the displayed position of
   the character 6 may be changed before the reels stop spinning.
15          This is described in detail based on the example illustrated in FIG. 28.       As
   illustrated in flowcharts in FIG. 29 and FIG. 30, step S47 is executed instead of step S46
   in the first embodiment. In step S47, display effect for making the character 6f (fish)
   serving as the special position identifiably displaying object appear in the game screen
   W14 and swim around in the screen.          Then, the character 6f (fish) may stop at the
20 special position before the video reels stop spinning (step S58).
            With this configuration, the character 6f (fish) serving as the special position
   identifiably displaying object keeps moving until the video reels stop spinning. Thus,
   the special position keeps changing to fuel the excitement.
            [Third modification]
25          In the embodiment described above, the "replacing" for displaying the reward
   symbol is described as a physical process of substituting a symbol. Alternatively, the
   "replacing" may be implemented by simply displaying the reward symbol in front of a
                                                 49

  symbol in an overlapping manner. This can similarly achieve the "replacing" with the
  same effects.
          Although only some embodiments of the present invention have been described
  in detail above, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications
5 are possible in the embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings
  and advantages of this invention. Accordingly, all such modifications are intended to be
  included within scope of this invention.
                                              50

   What is claimed is:
   1.      A video slot machine comprising: at least one processor or circuit programmed
   to execute as:
 5         scroll displaying symbol columns of N reels (N > 3) in a reel display area
   including two or more symbol stop positions for each of the reels;
           performing lottery to determine a special position in the symbol stop positions;
           identifiably displaying the special position in the reel display area, before the
   scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops; and
10         performing a reward process when a symbol stopped at the special position,
   when the scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops, the symbol being a
   predetermined chance symbol.
   2.      The video slot machine as defined in claim 1, the reward process at least
15 including a process of replacing the chance symbol stopped at the special position with
   a predetermined reward symbol.
   3.      The video slot machine as defined in claim 1, the reward process at least
   including a first replacement process of replacing a symbol in a reel including the
20 chance symbol stopped at the special position with a predetermined reward symbol.
   4.      The video slot machine as defined in claim 1, the reward process at least
   including a second replacement process of replacing a symbol in a reel including the
   chance symbol stopped at the special position as well as a symbol in an adjacent reel
25 with a predetermined reward symbol.
                                                51

   5.      The video slot machine as defined in claim 4, the second replacement process
   including replacing symbols in X continuous reels (N > X > 2) including the reel
   including the chance symbol stopped at the special position with the reward symbol.
 5 6.      The video slot machine as defined in claim 4, the performing the lottery to
   determine the special position including performing lottery to determine a plurality of
   the special positions,
           the reward process including changing payout when the second replacement
   process results in overlapping reels including replacement targets.
10
   7.      The video slot machine as defined in claim 2, the reward symbol being a wild
   symbol or a scatter symbol.
   8.      The video slot machine as defined in claim 1, the performing the lottery to
15 determine the special position including performing lottery to determine a position in
   the reel display area where a character with a predetermined size is displayed as the
   special position,
           the identifiably displaying the special position including displaying the character
   at the special position.
20
   9.      The video slot machine as defined in claim 8, the size of the character at least
   including two of the symbol stop positions adjacent to each other.
    10.    The video slot machine as defined in claim 9, the performing the reward process
25 including performing a first reward process when a stop position of the chance symbol
   overlaps with a first section of the character, and performing a second reward process
   when the stop position overlaps with a second section of the character.
                                                52

   11.      The video slot machine as defined in claim 8, the character at least including a
   first character and a second character,
            the performing the lottery to determine the special position including performing
 5 lottery to determine a first special position where the first character is displayed and a
   second special position where the second character is displayed,
            the identifiably displaying the special position including displaying the first
   character at the first special position and displaying the second character at the second
   special position,
10          the performing the reward process including performing a first reward process
   when a stop position of the chance symbol overlaps with the first character, and
   performing a second reward process when the stop position overlaps with the second
   character.
15 12.      The video slot machine as defined in claim 10, the first reward process at least
   including a process of replacing a first number of symbols, including the chance symbol
   stopped at the special position, with the predetermined reward symbol,
            the second reward process at least including replacing a second number of
   symbols, including the chance symbol stopped at the special position, with the reward
20 symbol, the second number of symbols being larger than the first number of symbols.
   13.      The video slot machine as defined in claim 11, the first reward process at least
   including a process of replacing a first number of symbols, including the chance symbol
   stopped at the special position, with the predetermined reward symbol,
25          the second reward process at least including replacing a second number of
   symbols, including the chance symbol stopped at the special position, with the reward
   symbol, the second number of symbols being larger than the first number of symbols.
                                                 53

   14.     The video slot machine as defined in claim 8, the video slot machine having a
   bonus game stage in which attacking, capturing, or acquiring is performed on a target
   object or a target character,
 5         the character being the target object or the target character appearing in the
   bonus game stage.
   15.     The video slot machine as defined in claim 10, the video slot machine having a
   bonus game stage in which attacking, capturing, or acquiring is performed on a target
10 object or a target character,
           the character being the target object or the target character appearing in the
   bonus game stage.
   16.     The video slot machine as defined in claim 11, the video slot machine having a
15 bonus game stage in which attacking, capturing, or acquiring is performed on a target
   object or a target character,
           the character being the target object or the target character appearing in the
   bonus game stage.
20 17.     A server system comprising: at least one processor or circuit programmed to
   execute as:
           scroll displaying symbol columns of N reels (N > 3) in a reel display area
   including two or more symbol stop positions for each of the reels to control progress of
   a video slot game in a user terminal;
25         performing lottery to determine a special position in the symbol stop positions;
           identifiably displaying the special position in the reel display area, before the
   scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops; and
                                                54

           performing a reward process when a symbol stopped at the special position,
   when the scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops, the symbol being a
   predetermined chance symbol.
 5 18.     A computer system comprising: a user terminal receiving a user operation; and a
   server system,
           the server system comprising at least one processor or circuit programmed to
   execute as:
           scroll displaying symbol columns of N reels (N > 3) in a reel display area
10 including two or more symbol stop positions for each of the reels to control progress of
   a video slot game in the user terminal;
           performing lottery to determine a special position in the symbol stop positions;
           identifiably displaying the special position in the reel display area, before the
   scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops; and
15         performing a reward process when a symbol stopped at the special position,
   when the scroll displaying of the symbol columns stops, the symbol being a
   predetermined chance symbol.
                                                55

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
