                                            ABSTRACT
          A system, method and apparatus provides a unique pool betting product where players
  make selections in a number of different events which occur in sequential legs or time
  periods. After some and preferably most of the legs have been completed, players who have
5 correct "win" predictions for each of the events or legs that are completed and thus remain in
  contention for the Jackpot Pool, and potentially those still eligible for consolations prizes,
  will be offered an opportunity to sell their tickets, in whole or in part, to the game operator or
  through the game operator.

                       WAGERING APPARATUS, METHODS AND SYSTEMS
                                            BACKGROUND
             There are a range of betting and lottery products in the market. For example, there are
    pure pool betting products, such as the Pick 6 horse racing product in the United States and
 5  the Scoop 6 racing product (among others) in the United Kingdom. There are also sports
    betting products such as soccer individual games and/or pool wagering products. Pick 6 and
    Scoop 6 provides a six leg jackpot type bet that may also include a bonus pool and
    consolation prizes. The product type is relatively successful and provides players with a
    chance to win a large sum by betting on six races on a given race day. Similar multiple leg
 0  pool wagering is allowed for other types of racing events and multiple sports events.
             In the United Kingdom, there also presently exists a free to play game offered by
    Skybet, the 'Super 6' whereby players are allowed to make just one set of soccer correct
    score selections to try to win a guaranteed payout. The Super 6 also has some similarities to
    the traditional soccer pools product but is different in that it is not predicting draws and only
 5  six selections are necessary. Many countries have similar pool products where players are
    asked to select winners in six or seven horse or dog races and can win a share of a large pool.
    In the United States, numerous states have lotteries where players select for example six
    numbers and purchase a lottery ticket for a specific drawing. There is also a "Mega Millions"
    game in which several states participate in a pooled jackpot. The correct selection of all six
 '0 numbers allows the ticket bearer to claim all or a portion of the pooled jackpot, depending on
    the number of winning tickets.
             The traditional soccer pools products in the United Kingdom offer a large payout if
    the player can select a large number of matches that result in a draw - particularly a score
    draw. Within soccer betting, correct score betting is the second most popular market after the
25  central Home/Draw/Away ("H/D/A") markets. A prominent United Kingdom based betting
    and gaming company recently reported that 84% of its retail (i.e. in betting shops) soccer bets
    were coupon based accumulators. Almost 90% of those are on four-fold and above. A four
    fold is four selections, so 90% of the bets are on four selections and more. By comparison, in
    online betting, twice as many bets are singles as is the case in betting shops, and only 55%
30  are four-fold and above.
             Within this market segment, there is a need for new products to generate and maintain
    consumer interest.

    SUMMARY
             The present disclosure is directed to a market gap for the creation of a unique betting
    product where players make selections in a number of different legs which, as defined below,
    can include any of a variety of different discrete events (e.g., an auto race), partial events
 5  (e.g., an inning of a baseball game, a set in tennis), components of events (e.g., one or more at
    bats by a particular player in baseball game or numbers selected in a particular position in a
    lottery drawing), multiple independent events (e.g., two football games that may occur
    sequentially or concurrently) and/or compilations of events (e.g., a championship series).
    Those players who correctly select all (or some predefined portion) of the winners of each leg
 0  have an opportunity to solely obtain and/or share in the proceeds of the stakes of all the other
    players, less any applicable deduction to cover operating costs and/or operator profit, and
    have the opportunity to win a prize. For example, in multi-leg event pools, prizes may include
    without limit a full or fractional portion of a Jackpot Pool (e.g., for all correct selections),
    potentially a Bonus Pool (e.g., for one additional outcome the following week, game, or
 5  event) and/or a possible Consolation Pool (e.g., for a subset of correct selections, or other
    pre-defined forms of partial correctness, such as, for example: did a horse place for
    consolation, rather than win for jackpot).        As another example, if the multi-leg event
    accommodates accumulator or parlay wagering, the players that correctly select the outcomes
    of each leg (or any other number of designated legs, for instance) have an opportunity to
 '0 solely obtain and/or share one or more prizes.
             In either case, if no player selects a correct winning combination of results, as one
    example, the amounts staked available to win may be carried forward until a next betting
    cycle, for example the next week, and may be available to win by anyone selecting a correct
    combination of outcomes, or alternatively all or any portion of the amounts staked available
25  to win may be retained by an operator or other designated entity. As should be understood,
    although not explicitly disclosed herein, there are many other outcome for how the amounts
    staked available to win may be handled and/or disposed of, and should be considered
    incorporated herein.
             However, to ensure that a significant prize is available in the first cycle or first week
30  or after a prize is claimed, in one example it is contemplated that there may be an operator
    guaranteed amount available to win each time the games are played, at least until significant
    reserves have been built up.

           Notably, various implementations may be betting scenarios or alternatively in other
   implementations players may choose to play just for fun, where no stakes are actually
   wagered.
           A unique differentiator of the product of the present disclosure may be that at any
 5 desired time after initiation of an event (such as at any time after a "ticket" is purchased until
   completion of an event, after each leg has been completed, between legs, including
   potentially as a leg is "in-play", and/or during a designated span of time before, during and/or
   after any of the legs), any desired number of players who remain eligible for a prize (and
   potentially those still eligible for bonus and/or consolation prizes) or to win or have correct
 0 (win) predictions for each of the events or legs that are completed, may be offered a "buy
   out" or an opportunity to sell their tickets (in whole or alternatively may be in part (i.e., a
   fractional amount) to the game operator or through the game operator (or alternatively
   directly) to a third party (e.g., one or more system operator(s), business entity or entities such
   as a merchant(s), one or more other persons, other player(s), etc.). Thus, for example, the
 5 game operator (or any other entity) may offer the player a fractional amount of the potential
   Jackpot Pool to buy the ticket for the still pending game(s) and thereby provide the player the
   opportunity to cash in and avoid the risk of being eliminated on a later leg or the final event.
   In other examples, a ticket held by players may be comprised of one or more divisions, and
   the buy-out offer or sale may involve just certain divisions of the ticket, so that those
 O divisions are sold but the player retains ownership of the remaining divisions of the ticket. In
   yet another example, a ticket held by a player may include an accumulator or parlay wager, in
   which case the player may receive (or initiate) a buy-out offer or sale for a fractional amount
   of a prize (e.g., a jackpot), and which may occur at any time, such as before, during and/or
   after any of the legs specified by the wager have been completed.
25         In addition to the Jackpot Pool or final Jackpot, there are other pools that could form
   part of the pool game. Part of the amount staked could be reserved to provide one or more
   Consolation Pool(s) which may be won by those who correctly select a portion of the correct
   outcomes or another consolation scenario. As an example, a player may be eligible for a
   Consolation Pool by selecting "any 5" of a Breeder's Cup Pick 6 pool, 5 of 7 such as V75 (a
30 Swedish multi-leg pool bet based on the sport of 'trotting'), or every selection "placed" in the
   event every selection did not win, as is the consolations in the UK scoop6.           In addition,
   another part of the amount staked could be reserved to provide a Bonus Pool which will be
   available to winners of the main pool, if they are able to select additional outcomes after they
   have successfully won the Jackpot Pool. In addition, the players that correctly select the

    winners of any number of legs can also win one or more interim Jackpots that occurs prior to
    completion of the event. Thus, the amount staked for the various interim Jackpots would be
    different than the final Jackpot, which occurs where there is a winner(s) of the last leg that
    occurs at the end of the event. When either of these pools are offered, any purchaser of a
 5  ticket such as the operator discussed above would become the owner of the rights in the ticket
    with respect to the opportunity to win the Consolation Pool(s), interim Jackpot(s) or Bonus
    Pool.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             FIG. 1 is a schematic representation of a wagering system hardware and network
 0  connected to various wagering stations or wagering terminals and other devices which may
    be used in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure.
             FIG. 2 is a more detailed schematic representation of the wagering system hardware
    and network that controls the operation of the system of FIG. 1.
             FIG. 3 is a block diagram of the functional architecture of a program for the wagering
 5  system hardware of Fig. 2.
             FIG. 4 is a table depicting goal expectancy for six years across the main soccer
    leagues and the World Cup.
             FIG. 5 is an exemplary flow chart of the logic of the software subroutine program of
    the central server system.
 '0 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             The present disclosure is directed to a new betting product developed for a wide range
    of applications, including any event where betting may be utilized or even scenarios where
    play is just for fun, such as, and without limitation, any type of actual or virtual sporting
    event or any type of game; for instance, one implementation may apply to the most globally
25  bet upon sport in the world, soccer and specifically United Kingdom Premier League soccer.
    The concept, however, has more widespread applications and potential appeal, and thus it
    may be applied to other types of sporting events (i.e., American football, horse racing, car
    racing, hockey, baseball, basketball, lacrosse, wrestling, just as a few examples) as well as
    being expanded to other events such as games (both virtual and real), including but not
30  limited to, virtual and real card games (e.g., jacks, poker, blackjack, Texas hold 'em, etc.),
    lotteries, racing, slot machines and other multi-leg/multi-events/multi-outcome or divisible
    games (such as games or sets in tennis, innings in baseball, etc.), or any combinations of
    desired events. Further, the betting product of the present disclosure is suitable for "betting
    for fun," which is betting with no actual stakes at risk.

            FIG. 1 is a schematic of an exemplary wagering system hardware and network that
    will be used herein to describe and illustrate one implementation of the present disclosure.
    The system includes a network, including a system controller, for example, such as based on
    a central server system 12 being interconnected through the internet 10 to a plurality of wager
 5  input devices such as wagering stations 14, wagering terminals (including self-service
    wagering terminals) 16, and internet connected computing systems 18, smart phones 20,
    tablet computers 22 and televisions 24 each of which is representative of a plurality of each
    type of wager input device (e.g. wagering stations 14A-N). As should be understood the term
    "system controller" should be broadly construed to comprise any hardware device or devices
 0  that includes at least one central processing unit (CPU) or other processing device and
    associated memory.     As will also be discussed below, the concepts herein may also be
    applied to gaming machines, so gaming machine 26 is depicted as an additional input device
    to the central server system 12 in Fig. 1. The term "leg" as used herein should be broadly
    construed and may comprise any desired number of individual components of any type of
 5  event, such as any type of game or sporting event. For example, and without limitation, a leg
    may comprise a sporting event in its entirety, such as a soccer game, American football game,
    horse race, car race, hockey game, baseball game, basketball game, lacrosse game, wrestling
    match, etc., any portion of a sporting event, such as an inning of baseball, a half of a soccer
    game, a single horse race, a quarter of an American football game, a single wrestling match,
 '0 etc., an occurrence within an event or game, such as a particular player scoring a goal (e.g., in
    hockey or soccer) or a particular player getting a hit in a baseball game, or a combination of
    games or events such as the World Series in baseball or any other sports playoff series. In
    addition, as an example and without limitation, a leg may comprise any desired number of
    individual components of any game or a game in its entirety, virtual and real, such as, for
25  instance, and without limitation, keno, jacks, poker, blackjack, Texas hold 'em, racing, video
    games (including live and online video games, as examples), slot machines and lotteries, etc.
    As one example, with respect to slot machines, a separate leg may correspond to each reel
    (whether virtual or mechanical), or any particular number or designated reels, of the slot
    machine.    As another example, with respect to a lottery, a separate leg may correspond to
30  each item, or any particular number or designated items, used to determine who may have
    won a given lottery, such as numbered balls. As another example, with respect to a card
    game (e.g., whether virtual or mechanical, etc.), a separate leg may correspond to each card,
    or any particular number or designated cards, that are played in a given card game. As should
    be understood, however, the amount and nature of the individual components that comprises
                                                    1S

    a leg may vary widely in a given application as may be desired, such as ranging anywhere
    from one (i.e., an entire event) to a plurality of individual components (i.e., parts of an event,
    such as reels of a slot machine, numbers in a lottery, cards in a card game, portions of a game
    or sporting event, etc.).
 5           The wager stations 14 and wagering terminals 16 of FIG. 1 are depicted in an
    exemplary only embodiments, but as known in the art they may include a support structure,
    housing or cabinet which provides support for a plurality of displays, inputs, controls and
    other features of a conventional wager terminal. The wagering stations 14 may be configured
    so that users can be the party placing a wager, while the wagering terminals 16 may be
 0  configured for an operator at a commercial location such as a store or betting facility. The
    wager stations 14 and wagering terminals 16 may be positioned on a base or stand or can be
    configured as a table-top which a user can operate preferably while sitting. The wagering
    stations 14 and wagering terminals 16 may further include a device for accepting a monetary
    value associated with a wager wherein the device may include, for example, a coin collector,
 5  a bill collector or a card reader. The wagering stations 14 and wagering terminals 16 may
    further include one or more of a display, a card reader/writer and/or a ticket and/or voucher
    printer to visually display, store on a card and/or a player account(s), and/or print wager
    receipts and potentially vouchers representing cash-out values and successful play awards
    (e.g., an "award" or "awards" as defined herein shall be broadly construed and shall include,
 ,0 without limitation, a designated currency, virtual currency, tokens, credits, coupons, services,
    personal or real property, virtual property, assets, investments, negotiable instruments (such
    as checks), commodities, food, lodging, entertainment, alleviation of obligations, gaming
    opportunities, wager enhancement and/or any other benefits) or portions thereof that may be
    provided or otherwise offered to a player). The wagering stations 14 and wagering terminals
25  16 may also include a ticket or voucher reader and/or a dispenser for dispensing a monetary
    amount, such as, without limitation, cash, virtual currency and/or tokens, etc. For example,
    the ticket or voucher reader may be adapted to read and allocate credits or other value
    associated with a ticket or voucher to one or more players and/or player accounts. The bill
    collector, ticket or voucher reader and dispenser may be separate or integrated into a single
30  sub-unit.
             The wager stations 14 and wagering terminals 16 preferably include at least one
    processor, such as a microprocessor, a microcontroller-based platform, a suitable integrated
    circuit or one or more application-specific integrated circuits (ASIC's). The processor is in
    communication with or operable to access or to exchange signals with at least one data
                                                     r;

    storage or memory device. The processor and the memory device reside within the cabinet.
    The memory device stores program code and instructions, executable by the processor, to
    control the wager stations 14 and wagering terminals 16 and communicate with the central
    server system 12. The memory device also stores other data such as image data, event data,
 5  user input data, ticket tracking assignment generators, pay-table data or information and
    applicable rules that relate to the operation of the wager stations 14 and wagering terminals
    16 and the particular type of buy-out method and process described herein.
            It is also contemplated that an operator or a player can use a computing system 18,
    such as a desktop computer, a laptop personal computer, a personal digital assistant (PDA) or
 0  smartphone 20, portable tablet computing device 22, or other computerized platform or
    interactive web-enabled television 24 to access the central server system 12 via a network,
    internet or intranet, so as to initiate a wager and access the collective wagering pool. In this
    implementation, it is contemplated the users' devices would also receive messages and the
    buy-out offers discussed below from the pool operator via the central server system 12, so
 5  that the individual user could participate in the wagering system and buy-back option via the
    user's connected device.
            It is contemplated that the wager stations 14, wager terminals 16 and/or personal
    computing systems 18, as well as the smart phones 20, tablet computers 22 and televisions 24
    disclosed herein may be operable over a wired or wireless network, such as part of a wired or
 '0 wireless wagering system. In this embodiment, the computing systems 18 may be a hand
    held device, a mobile device or any other suitable wireless device that enables a user to
    participate in the pooled wagering system at any suitable location. It is contemplated that the
    computing systems 18 or at least the server system as disclosed herein may be a device that
    has obtained approval from a regulatory agency or commission or a device that has not
25  obtained or require approval from a regulatory agency or commission.          FIG. 2 is a more
    detailed schematic representation of the wagering system hardware of the central server
    system 12 that controls the operation of the system of FIG. 1. The central server system 12
    may include one or more rack mounted server computers 120 each with at least one central
    processing unit (CPU) or other processing device and associated memory. As an example
30  only, the rack mounted server computers 120 of FIG. 2 may be PowerEdge R420 Rack
    Chassis devices having a 300 GB hard drive, one or two Intel Xeon E5-2450 processors, 24
    GB memories with RAID connectivity using a RAID controller card. One or more of the
    computers 120 may also include an input device, an output device and a driver for a display
    device. The computers 120 within the central server system 12 are shown as being hardwired
                                                     7

   to each other and to the internet, but the respective computers or portions of the network may
   include either wired and/or wireless connectivity to the internet, to an intranet or an
   alternative networked communication system, such as, for example and without limitation, .a
   cloud-based system, an autonomic system, a client-server based system, a grid based system,
 5 a mainframe based system, a utility based system, a peer-to-peer based system, a cloud
   gaming based system, or any other suitable types of system architectures, topographies or
   configurations.
           In addition to the respective computers 120, the central server system as depicted in
   FIG. 2 includes one or more, and in this example, two network switches 122 and two firewall
 0 devices 124. The network switches 122 may for example be Hewlett Packard model 2510
   48G Switches and the firewall devices 124 may be Cisco Model ASA 5520 firewalls and
   associated software. As illustrated, the firewall devices 124 are interconnected to each other
   and to the internet, and each firewall device 124 is also connected to one of the network
   switches 122.
 5         The network switches 122 are connected to the respective computers 120, which as
   shown may be divided into logical functions to control certain aspects of the operation of the
   wagering system which may be best understood in connection with the block diagram of the
   functional architecture of the program for the wagering system illustrated in Fig. 3. In FIG.
   2, there may be provided a redundancy for the respective computers 120 such that as shown
 0 there are two computers 120 for each of the tasks, and the redundant computers 120 are
   interconnected.
           As illustrated in FIG. 2, there are five pairs of computers depicted interconnected
   through a bus, and through the bus to switches 122. The five pairs include computers 120A,
   associated with the web interface and connectivity, computers 120B associated with the Mid
25 Tier program, computers 120C for a database, computers 120C for a Tote program and
   computers 120E providing the management interface for the central server system, all as
   described in more detail below in connection with Fig. 3. The computers 120E are shown
   including a workstation 126 including an input device such as a keyboard and an output or
   display device such as a monitor. Also, the respective computers need not be located in the
30 same facility, thus for example the computers 120D providing the Tote functionality may be
   remote from the computers 120B providing the Mid-Tier functionality.
           The central server system 12 of FIGS. 1 and 2 may include software programs for
   wagering software functionality such as registration, deposit taking, withdrawals, account
   sections that may include current and previous bet histories, fixtures, results, historical data,

    rules and regulations.    These types of software programs having these functionalities are in
    place in various totalizer facilities and are thus known in the art. However, FIG. 3 is provided
    to further illustrate the process steps of the program and operation of the central server
    system 12 associated with the pool wagering system contemplated by the present disclosure.
 5  The program for the known functionality of a totalizer facility noted above would be
    incorporated in the Micro Tote 408 program, as discussed further below.
            FIG. 3 represents an exemplary functional architecture of a program hosted or
    supported by the central server system 12. The core program is represented by the center
    block identified as the "Mid Tier" program 402. The Mid Tier program 402 interacts with
 0  the respective customer and website administrator input programs in the left side block
    identified as the Website program 404, as well as the accounting programs in the right side
    block identified as the Micro Tote program 408. The Mid Tier program 402 communicates
    using an "Application Program           Interface" hereinafter "API,"   allowing bi-directional
    communication to, and through, the Mid Tier program 402, as represented by the Merchant
 5  API 406 as between the Website program 404 and the Mid Tier program 402, and the Tote
    API 410 as between the Micro Tote program 408 and the Mid Tier program 402, reference
    lines.
            The Mid Tier program 402, as shown in FIG 3, may include a Merchant API 420
    program, a Cash-in 422 program and an Administration 424 program. It is contemplated that
 '0 the Mid Tier program 402 may be itself a dedicated stand-alone server system and program
    for hosting the pool based wagering system of the present disclosure, or the subroutines
    unique to the pool based wagering system of the present disclosure may be added to a server
    system and program that also hosts other types of wagering pools.
            As depicted in the Merchant API 420 program box, there may be several HTTP POST
25  request sub-routines including a Place Bet POST 430, Ticket Enquiry POST 432, Available
    offers POST 434, Accept Offer POST 436, Decline Offer POST 438. The Place Bet POST
    430 routine is used to place a bet on the Operator system. The Ticket Enquiry POST 432
    routine is used to confirm that a ticket has been sold on the Operator system. The Available
    offers POST 434 routine is used to determine what bet trading offers are currently available
30  to the customer. The Accept Offer POST 436 routine is used to accept an offer. The Decline
    Offer POST 438 routine is used to decline an offer.
            As depicted in the Merchant API 420 program box, the system may generate several
    file updates including a Competition Summary FILE 440, a Competition Detail FILE 442, a
    Pool Change FILE 444, a Fixture Change FILE 446, a Competition Change FILE 448 and a
                                                      0

    Ticket Payouts FILE 450. The Competition Summary FILE 440 routine holds a summary list
    of the available competitions It is updated when new competitions are added, old ones are
    deleted, or when the status or current fixture changes.        The Competition Detail FILE 442
    routine holds details about the competition. The Pool Change FILE 444 routine holds details
 5  on pool-level information changes on a competition. The Fixture Change FILE 446 routine
    holds details when fixture-level changes on a competition. The Competition Change FILE
    448 routine holds details when competition-level information changes. The Ticket Payouts
    FILE 450 routine holds details for each pool as its status becomes official.
            The Mid Tier program 402, as shown in FIG. 3, includes most critically the Cash-In
 0  422 program, which itself may include the Offers Generation 452 routine, the Offers 454
    routine and the Tickets 456 routine. The Cash-In 422 program is responsible for determining
    when an offer to buy-out a ticket holder will be made, and the price that will be offered.
    Within the Cash-In 422 program, the Offers Generation 452 routine is the trading engine that,
    when triggered, will generate a set of offers over all of the tickets that are still potential
 5  winners and then publish the offers and receive/process the acceptance of these offers via the
    Merchant API 420. The Offers 454 routine stores all the offer made, accepted and declined.
    The Tickets 456 routine stores all the tickets for a pool and who the rightful owner is.
    Further, the Mid Tier program 402, as also shown in FIG. 3, may include the Administration
    424 program, which itself may include a Create Read Update Delete (CRUD) Merchants 460
 '0 routine, Trading Risk Management 462 routine, Stop Trading 464 routine, Reporting 466
    routine, Probabilities 468 routine and Random Number Generator (RNG) Logic 470 routine.
    The Merchants 460 routine is to create, read, update and delete third party Merchant details
    within the Mid Tier. The Trading Risk Management 462 routine is to allow the control and
    monitoring of cash-in trading. The Stop Trading 464 routine is to allow cash-in trading to be
25  stopped if required. The Reporting 466 routine is for calculating and reporting on settlement
    with Merchant systems. The Probabilities 468 routine is for the uploading of probabilities
    used in the trading calculations. The RNG Logic 470 routine is use for QuickPick bets.
            Traditional quick picks generally allocate selections to people either randomly as
    prevalent in lotteries (where each number has equal probability of being drawn), or in-line
30  with some estimated probabilities such as horse racing (or other event where outcomes do not
    have equal probability or prospects). It is intended that quick picks in the initial iterations of
    these games may or may not be in fact SMART PICKS, in that a quick pick will only be
    allocated to the client if it has a relatively realistic chance of providing the winning outcome
    and in a relative sense to the size of the pool (which may be fixed or variable (e.g., based on
                                                      1(

    the public spend) or guarantee.      For example, in the seven leg correct score game, some
    outcomes are less than Imillion-to-one, where other outcomes are greater than 1 trillion-to
    one.   The smart pick will not allocate a quick pick ticket to a client unless it is within a
    certain multiple of the pool size, say five times. As such, when the pool is £5 million, all E1
 5  quick picks (smart picks) will only be allocated to clients wanting a quick pick (smart pick),
    if they are less than 25 million-to-one. The reason for this smart pick adjustment is to ensure
    that smart pick players are not grossly disadvantaged by being allocated a random ticket with
    potentially very minimal probability of success, especially in reactions to the pool size.
             In an alternate embodiment, the probability of generating a particular quick picks
 0  (smart picks) ticket may be proportional to the probability of each outcome winning in
    addition to the smart picks caps described above. Other implementations with respect to
    QuickPicks/SMART PICKS that are commercially known and not described herein may also
    be utilized as desired.
             Now referring to the left side block of FIG. 3, the Website program 404 may be
 5  represented as including subprograms for a user interface 480 representing a dedicated
    website on which wagers may be entered for example by a customer using a personal
    computer or alternatively a wagering terminal as discussed above.          Once logged into the
    website, the user interface 480 provides a registration and login routine 482, an account
    funding routine 484, a player protection routine 486 and a betting interface routine 488. The
 '0 user interface 480 also provides a routine to allow interconnection with a payment provider
    490, for example WORLDPAY@, providing a secure method by which payments for wagers
    may be submitted. The user interface 480 may also provide routines to provide a customer
    ledger 492, customer statements 494 and currency exchange rate calculator 496.
             As an alternative to the customer using a dedicated website, it is contemplated that the
25  users could interact with a Merchant Microsite 500, representing for example an established
    betting house or parlor having its own customer base and methods of collecting wagers and
    paying disbursements from and to players. These types of Merchant Microsites 500 would be
    provided with their own Merchant API 406 for communicating with the server hosting the
    Mid Tier 402 program. The Merchant Microsites 500 include routines for single sign on 502
30  to the wagering pool and a payment API 504 to assist in the respective accounting functions
    as between the operator of the Merchant Microsite 500 and the host of the pool wagering
    system hosted on the central server system 12.
             As also reflected in the Website program 404, the Administrative (Admin) Console
    510 routine is provided to manage the User Interface 480. The Admin Console 510 routine,
                                                    11

    operated by the website administrator, may include an Account Management 512 routine for
    managing customer account details, a Payment Reconciliation 514 routine for administration
    of customer deposits and withdrawals with a payment provider like WORLDPAY@, a
    Customer Relationship Management (CRM) 516 routine for managing sales, marketing and
 5  customer service interactions with customers and a Content Management System (CMS) 518
    routine for the creation, editing and publishing on content on the Website 404.
            Now referring to the right side block of FIG. 3, the Micro Tote 408 routine is the
    program equivalent to a "Totalisator" which receives, calculates and provides a display
    output for all bets made in a given progressive pool bet system. The Micro Tote 408 routine
 0  may thus include a Gateway 520 program, a Memory Grid 522 program, a Central Repository
    524 program and an Administration 526 program. The Gateway 520 program includes a
    routine posting the wagering card 530, summing all of the wagering 532, providing updates
    534, and calculating each potential payout 536. The Gateway 520 program also includes a
    routine for pooling and accumulating all of the Gateway Tickets 538, which is the master
 5  routine for each bet that has been placed and accepted in the pool.
            Also within the Micro Tote 408 is a Memory Grid 522 program that includes a Pool
    Collations 540 routine.       The Pool Collations 540 routine calculates and continuously
    recalculates the odds as each bet is placed and accepted, and as each event result occurs
    within the pool, so as to determine the odds with respect to each remaining active ticket
 '0 within the pool bet. The odds and all information calculated by the Pool Collations 540
    routine is routed through the Tote API 410 to the Mid-Tier 402, and specifically to the
    Merchant API 420, Cash-in 422 and Administration 424 routines.
            Also within the Micro Tote 408 is a Central Repository 524 program that includes a
    Ticket History 542 routine. The Ticket History 542 routine retains a complete record of each
25  bet placed, each respective ticket, all payouts, and all unpaid credits for all of the respective
    pools. The information within the Ticket History 542 routine may be maintained primarily
    for the benefit of regulators and/or oversight organizations and taxing agencies.
            Finally, the Micro Tote 408 may also include an Administration 526 program that
    includes routines for Message Queue 544 which is for inter-process communications within
30  the Micro Tote, Create Read Update Delete (CRUD) Wager Card 546 is for setting up the
    event information that will be wagered on, Manual Events 548 is for manually managing
    updates to events, CRUD Merchants 550 is for create, read, update and delete third party
    Merchant information on the Micro Tote, reports 552 is for settlement reports for the Micro
    Tote and Data Feeds 554 is for third party event feeds.
                                                    11)

           With respect to the software programs of Fig. 3, and with respect to the respective
   computers of Fig. 2, computers 120A drive the consumer websites 480, merchant microsites
   500 and the website administration console 510, computers 120B host the main Mid-Tier
   program for driving the merchant API 420, cash-in 422 and mid-tier administration console
 5 424, computers 120C host the program for physically maintaining the Customer Ledger
   database 492, computers 120D host the program for physically maintaining the Tote 408 that
   consists of Gateway 520, Memory Grid 522, Central Repository 524 and Tote administration
   console 526, and computers 120E host the program providing the physical management
   interface for the entire interrelated system software.
 0         For the wagering and option buy-out system of the present disclosure, the central
   server system 12 is programmed to provide to the wager stations 14, wager terminals 16 or
   personal devices 18, 20, 22 or 24 various options for placing wagers on one or more (e.g. a
   sequence of and/or separate discrete) sporting events spread over an appropriate interval. The
   wager stations 14, wager terminals 16 or personal computing systems 18 would allow a
 5 player to place a wager on a series of (or separate discrete) sporting events, for example three
   to eight soccer matches scheduled to occur over a three day period. The player would select
   the winners, or in some embodiments the particular scores of the matches (or any other
   variables), for each particular sporting event within a defined cumulated pool or other. The
   player would receive either a printed ticket or an electronic ticket representing the selections
 0 and the amount of the bet. The controller or server system 12 would maintain the pool,
   assign tracking identifiers to each wager and ticket placed into the pool, and determine any
   payout requirements from the pooled wagers in the event of a successful selection of all of
   the events.
           The wager stations 14 and wager terminals 16 may include one or more display
25 devices controlled by the processor. The display devices may be connected to or mounted to
   the cabinet of the wager terminal. The embodiments as generally illustrated in FIG. 1 may
   include, as known in the art, a display device which displays the betting options. This display
   device may also display any suitable secondary information associated with the pool
   wagering system. The wager stations 14 and wager terminals 16 may include a credit display
30 which displays a player's current number of credits, cash, account balance or the equivalent.
   In one embodiment, wager terminal includes a bet display which displays a player's amount
   wagered. The wager stations 14 and wager terminals 16 may include, without limitation, a
   monitor, a television display, a plasma display, a liquid crystal display (LCD) a display based
   on light emitting diodes (LED), a display based on a plurality of organic light-emitting diodes

    (OLEDs), a display based on polymer light-emitting diodes (PLEDs), a display based on a
    plurality of surface-conduction electron-emitters (SEDs), a display including a projected
    and/or reflected image or any other suitable electronic device or display mechanism. In one
    embodiment, as described in more detail below, the display device includes a touch-screen
 5  with an associated touch-screen controller. The display devices may be of any suitable size
    and configuration, such as a square, a rectangle or an elongated rectangle. The wager stations
    14 and wager terminals 16 may be any sort of integrated products or stand alone terminals or
    devices, such as, for instance and without limitation, one for a casino or betting shop, such as
    in the nature of a fixed odds betting terminal ("FOBT") or a Best Gaming Technology
 0  ("BGT") Self service terminal, as examples. Any other suitable types of products or devices
    commercially known may also be utilized where desired and in accordance with the needs of
    a particular implementation.
            The wager stations 14 and wager terminals 16 also may include at least one payment
    acceptor in communication with the processor. The payment acceptor may include a coin slot
 5  and/or a payment, note or bill acceptor, as examples, where the player inserts money, coins or
    tokens. The player can place coins in the coin slot or paper money (e.g., the coins or paper
    money may include actual and/or virtual currency), a ticket or voucher into the payment, note
    or bill acceptor. In other alternatives, devices such as readers or validators for credit cards,
    debit cards, credit slips or the like may accept payment. A player may insert an identification
 '0 card into a card reader of the wager stations 14 and wager terminals 16. The identification
    card may be a smart card having a programmed microchip or a magnetic strip coded with a
    player's identification, credit totals (or related data) and other relevant information. A player
    may carry a portable device, such as a cell phone, a radio frequency identification tag or any
    other suitable wireless device, which communicates a player's identification, credit totals (or
25  related data) and other relevant information to the wager stations 14 and wager terminals 16.
    Money may be transferred to a wager station 14 or wager terminal 16 through electronic
    funds transfer. When a player funds the wager station 14 or wager terminal 16, the processor
    determines the amount of funds entered and displays the corresponding amount on the credit
    display or other suitable display. As should be understood, where the term "money" or
30  reference to some form of funds is made herein, both actual currencies and virtual currencies
    would equally be captured by this term.
            In one embodiment, the wager stations 14 and wager terminals 16 may further be
    configured to: read the receipt of a purchased ticket, make a buy back offer on the ticket,
                                                      ill

    accept that buy back offer, print a ticket for the cashed-in value, print another ticket, and/or
    adapt the first ticket so the client has a record his ticket is now partially owned by him.
             The wager stations 14 and wager terminals 16 may include at least one and preferably
    a plurality of input devices in communication with the processor. The input devices can
 5  include any suitable device which enables the player to produce an input signal which is
    received by the processor. After appropriate funding of the wager station 14 or wager
    terminal 16 the input device is a game selection device or a game play button which is used
    by the player to identify the selected outcome of each of the games/matches/legs of the pool
    wager on the wager station 14 or wager terminal 16.
 0           As this first embodiment of a pool bet system is premised on betting of sporting
    events, the server has an input device 26 allowing an operator to enter the results of the
    sporting events, the winners of the matches or games, the final scores and/or other parameters
    such as the total score of the game or the point differential. It is contemplated that this
    information will be entered reasonably promptly following the completion, and if required
 5  certification, of the sporting event. With the results of the sporting events for a first sequence
    of events, the system will make a determination as to whether any individual wagers recorded
    in the system have correctly selected the winners (or point spread etc.) of the sporting events.
             After some percentage, such as a majority, of the sporting events have occurred, the
    server system 12 may be configured to identify the remaining potential winning ticket or
 '0 tickets for the Jackpot Pool, i.e., those tickets that have correctly selected each of the results
    (win or consolation) of the events of the completed legs, or remain eligible for the
    consolation prize for selecting a certain percentage of the actual winners (i.e., 6 of the 8
    winners). Upon determining the number of remaining potential winners of the Jackpot Pool,
    the system will determine the likelihood of each ticket winning the Jackpot Pool (alone or
25  shared with other players, which may be known or modeled), and on that basis make a
    determination as to the attributed value of the ticket based on its respective probability of
    winning the Jackpot Pool (and the prize if split multiple ways). The server system 12 then
    makes the determination of what the appropriate value would be for a ticket in order to make
    an offer to buy-out to one or more players (as disclosed herein, in other examples one or
30  more other sources may also be used in addition to, or as an alternative to, the server system
    12 for determining the appropriate value). In one example, the buy-out offer is for buying an
    entire ticket from a player (i.e., 100%) for an indicated value. As should be understood, the
    buy-out offer may be for any desired percentage of a ticket (i.e., any percentage between 0%
    100%). The player presented with the buy-out offer may decide if it will sell the ticket at the
                                                      1s

    indicated value, not sell at all and retain 100% of the ticket and/or make a counter offer (i.e.,
    such as a different percentage amount and/or a different value, etc.), as examples. If the buy
    out offer is accepted, the player will receive the indicated value (which may occur in a variety
    of different ways as described herein). In certain examples, when a buy-out offer is accepted,
 5  the entity that initiated the buy-out offer will in return obtain legal ownership of the ticket
    from the player. In certain other examples, the entity that initiated the buy-out offer will not
    obtain legal ownership of the ticket, but merely obtain an entitlement (e.g., a contract) to
    obtain all or any portion of any future Jackpots, awards or other prizes, etc. (i.e., depending
    on the ticket percentage related to the buy-out offer) that may occur in connection with the
 0  ticket from the point of purchase moving forward. In certain other examples, the player may
    also have the option to offer (i.e., counter offer) or sell something different than the original
    buy-out offer, such as just a portion of a ticket in response to a buy-out offer. As an example,
    and without limitation, depending on how a desired system is set up, the player may have the
    option to provide a counter offer for consideration by the entity that initiated the buy-out
 5  offer (e.g., something different than the original buy-out offer, such as a different percentage
    of a ticket and/or a different designated amount for the value, etc.), and with the entity being
    able to accept the counter offer (or alternatively where set up in this manner, to otherwise
    deny or provide yet another counter offer back to the player, etc.). Similarly, where desired,
    rather than the entity providing the acceptance, the entity may merely provide an indication to
 '0 the player that is agreeable to the terms and/or provide to the player a new buy-out offer
    along the lines of the counter offer, which may then be accepted by the player. However, it
    should be understood that this is merely a matter of logistics for how acceptance is to be
    made to a counter offer (either by the entity or player), but both approaches will accomplish
    the same objectives and may be utilized where desired. In addition to, or alternatively,
25  depending on how a system is structured, the player may have the ability to sell something
    different directly in response to a buy-out offer, such as a different percentage of a ticket. As
    an example, and without limitation, in response to a buy-out offer for 100% of a ticket, a
    player may sell only 50% rather than 100% of a ticket, and the amount paid to the player
    would then be similarly reduced, such as being reduced proportionately by 50%, or
30  alternatively reduced less than 50% if a premium was associated with the 100% buy-out
    offer, or any other desired amount depending on how a system is desired to be structured. As
    should be understood, and without limitation, a player may offer or sell in response to a buy
    out offer any different percentage of the ticket in return for a percentage of the indicated
    value. The percentage of the indicated value may also vary as may be desired based on the

   percentage of the ticket offered or sold. For example, in certain situations, partial cash-in of a
   ticket may be proportionate to the ticket's full value, while in other situations partial cash-in
   of the ticket may not be proportionate with the ticket's full value, as the operator may want to
   incentivize certain behaviors around cash-in, according to particular preferences of the
 5 operator. In one example, sale of 50% of a ticket may correspond to 50% of the indicated
   value of a ticket. In another example, a certain defined "premium" may also be allocated
   against the player for a sale of less than 100% ownership of a ticket; for instance, sale of 50%
   of a ticket may correspond to payment of only 45% of the indicated value (with the premium
   corresponding to 5%), although as should be understood, the amount of the premium can vary
 0 and/or may also be adjusted based on the amount of the ticket sold, as may be desired (i.e., a
   lower premium the greater the amount of the ticket sold and the higher the premium the lower
   the percentage of the ticket sold).     The premium may also vary, on the value sold or the
   proximity to the end of the game, as examples, and it would be expected that large sums and
   closer to the end of the game tickets would attract the biggest premium, as users should be
 5 less price sensitive.
            In yet another example, where a player sells 100% of a ticket, they would receive in
   return the indicated value together with a "bonus" for selling 100% ownership of the ticket,
   and that bonus may be set at any desired value, such as a certain percentage of the indicated
   value of the ticket. In yet other examples, the buy-out offer may be for buying all or a portion
 0 of a ticket from a player. In another example, a player may receive a bonus for a partial-cash
   in, should there be a desire to incentivize a player to sell less than 100% of a ticket. Other
   variations are also possible according to the preferences at issue. In various examples, the
   buy-out offer may be initiated from any type of entity. For example, the entity could
   correspond to one or more parties of any type. This may include, for example, a private party
25 or parties working in collaboration and/or a government or quasi-governmental party, etc. For
   instance, and without limitation, the party or parties may be the operator(s) of the network or
   just user(s) of the network.
            By way of example, upon presentation of the ticket to one of the wager stations 14 or
   wager terminals 16, the ticket will be verified and the system will present the offer to
30 purchase the whole ticket will be displayed on the display devices, and the player will have
   the option to accept or reject the offer via an input to the wager station 14 or wager terminal
    16. The player can also respond, or alternatively be presented with the option, to sell any
   fraction of a ticket he/she wishes to sell through the wager station 14 or wager terminal 16.
   The player may also be able to respond, or offered the option of, selling different fractions of
                                                   17

    the ticket at different stages or after respective legs of the pool event. For example the player
    may sell 10% after fourth leg, another 20% after the fifth leg and 30% after the sixth leg,
    thereby still retaining 40% of the original ticket to the conclusion of the game after the
    seventh leg.
 5          As another example, if after 5 matches (or legs) of a 6 match pool there are 3
    remaining tickets that have correctly identified the outcomes of the first five matches (or
    legs), and all having an equal chance of winning the $1 million Jackpot Pool, then the server
    system 12 may calculate that each ticket has an actual value of $100,000. This would be the
    case if each person held an outcome in isolation of the other two tickets, and then the
 0  probability of each of the three owned outcomes was 10% or a price of 10.0 in decimal terms.
    Upon application of a risk factor and/or margin discount, the server system 12 would
    establish an attributed value and then communicate an offer to purchase the respective tickets
    to each of the ticket holders, at a price of for example $80,000 for each ticket, representing a
    20% margin for the purchaser. The offered amount would represent a substantial return on a
 5  $2 ticket, and removing significant volatility for the player, that was one step from winning
    $1,000,000 but also one step from winning nothing. The offer may be for 100% of the ticket,
    or alternatively could be for a partial portion of the ticket, for example an equal fifty percent
    share, at $40,000. In this option, it is contemplated that various percentage offers could be
    made, for example any 10% interval from 10% to 90%, at an appropriate monetary amount.
 '0 Thus, the player in the above example could sell 10% of the ticket for $8,000 and retain the
    potential of receiving 90% of the $1,000,000 Jackpot Pool.
            It is also contemplated that the server system 12 will have the ability to receive
    additional data via the input device 26, for example various odds on respective wagers
    concerning the sporting match or event, that may impact the attributed value calculated for
25  any given ticket.      That additional information could be used to calculate with greater
    precision the potential odds, and attributed value, of the remaining tickets after each round or
    leg of the pool. Thus, in the example above, if one of the remaining 3 potentially winning
    tickets has predicted the final score of the final soccer match as 2-1, while another has
    selected the final score as being 1-10, then the more likely score of 2-1 will have a higher
30  attributed value than the ticket having selected 1-10. In that event, the ticket holder of the 2-1
    score match may be offered more, as that ticket's attributed value (or expected value in
    mathematical probability terms) will be higher.
                                                      1R

             To further explain the example, the outcome probability factor (OPF) and the
    Expected Value (EV) of two respective tickets with the following score predictions may be
    set as:
    2-1 price (OPF?)= 10.0, and
 5  1-10 price (OPF?)= 1000 (as it is an unrealistic score but useful for this example), with
    EV   =  1,000,000 (POOL)/Price of outcome/number of tickets holding that outcome.
             Therefore, the ticket with the score of the final leg being 2-1will have an estimated
    value in a $1,000,000 pool calculated as 1000000/10/1       = $100,000 while the ticket with the
    score of the final leg being 1-10 will have an estimated value in a $1,000,000 pool calculated
 0  as 1000000/1000/1      =  $1000.   Therefore the person having the ticket predicting the 2-1
    outcome will be offered in the region of 100 times more for his ticket as his ticket is 100
    times more likely (than the ticket with the 1-10 score) to win the $1,000,000 jackpot.
             This mathematical calculation of EV for fair value can be extended to the entire range
    of tickets that exist and extended backwards to the tickets remaining after the very first leg if
 5  appropriate. The ticket holders could be offered "cash in" values at any time, such as from as
    soon as is acceptable and viable. In certain examples, it is envisaged that cash in
    circumstances will increase later in the game when the potential values begin to rise
    significantly. In addition, in certain examples, games may include a Consolation Pool and/or
    a Bonus Pool in addition to a jackpot. Also, in certain examples, the ticket cash-in or buy
 '0 back may include the purchase of the rights to other pools. As merely an example and
    without limitation, in games where there is a Consolation Pool and/or a Bonus Pool in
    addition to the jackpot, the ticket cash-in or buy back may include the purchase of the rights
    to the other pools, and the price offered will include the EV/FV/theoretical value of the bonus
    ticket (and any potential dividends from the Consolation Pool) given the live tickets
25  remaining. As should be understood, in other examples, the ticket cash-in or buy back may
    still include the purchase of the rights to other pools even where no Consolation Pool and/or a
    Bonus Pool is provided.
             As another option in the system, the buy-back or cash-in offer may be staged as an
    iterative bidding process. Thus, even after a first offer is made and rejected, the operator may
30  elect to make another higher offer upon a subsequent presentation of a ticket. However, the
    holder of the ticket will not necessarily be given a second offer once the first offer is rejected
    so that the ticket holder will be unaware of whether a greater offer will follow or if they will
    be locked into the "hold" position until the conclusion of the next match or leg of the game.
                                                     10

             An output device such as televisions 24 may also be coupled with the central server
    system 12 computers 120 and configured, for example, to display the pool of betting
    combinations and a representation of the tickets or wagers that are active in the system
    resulting from the bettor-selected game predictions and the results of the respective games or
 5  events that have been completed which form part or all of the pool events. Such an output
    device 24 may also include, for example, a visual display and/or a printing device.
    Additionally, such an output device 24 may be configured to display the results of an event
    taking place at a remote venue, such as the event forming the next leg of the pool. Thus, a
    betting parlor may have a series of televisions and monitors broadcasting the event (i.e., a
 0  soccer match), while also displaying streaming data concerning for example the number of
    tickets that remain in the pool, alerts when a goal is scored that eliminates tickets from the
    pool, and potentially the offers to buy outstanding tickets.
             The wagering stations 14A and wager terminals 16A may be located at a first venue,
    while other wagering stations 14B-14N and wager terminals 16B - 16N may be located at
 5  other remotely located venues. Thus, the network formed of the plurality of wagering stations
    14A-14N and wager terminals 16A - 16N may enable wagering on, and monitoring of,
    events at multiple venues substantially simultaneously if so desired. Accordingly, it is
    contemplated that the operator could have wagering stations 14A-14N and/or wager terminals
    16A - 16N in multiple locations within a city, or multiple locations within a state, country or
 '0 region, so as to allow pooling of bets in the game across a significant population to drive the
    amounts of the Jackpot Pool to substantial values for each individual game, series of
    events/matches.
             In another embodiment, the wagering stations 14A-14N may be located in a single
    venue such as a race track where, for example, a first wagering station 14A acts as a server
25  for all of the other wagering stations 14B-14N networked to it for conducting the pool
    wagering activity, with wagering stations 14B-14N acting as terminals coupled with the
    server of first wagering station 14A.
             It may be appreciated that the wagering activity and buy-out option according to the
    present disclosure may be effected in a specific environment at a specific location on a stand
30  alone (or closed) system or may be electronically linked to include play in a plurality of
    environments or at a plurality of locations. For example, the wagering stations 14A-14N and
    wager terminals 16A - 16N may be distributed throughout a variety of wagering venues
    including race tracks, off-track betting facilities, retail establishments (where legal), casinos,
    lotteries, and on the Internet. Further, such wagering activity and evaluation thereof may
                                                     Mn

    provide automatic and immediate performance feedback (individual and team performance,
    leader boards or other indicia of participant standings, contest time remaining, account
    balances, etc.) to participants via text messaging, cellular telephones, PDAs, interactive
    television, email, Internet browsers or other applications. Here again, the wide distribution of
 5  available outlets and devices for entering into the game is intended to allow pooling of bets in
    the game across a significant population to drive the amounts of the Jackpot Pool to
    substantial values for each individual game, series of events/matches.
             In a sports or event based wagering environment, the product concept can be applied
    to a number of different sports and markets. For convenience, the first implementation of the
 0  product will be described with respect to a series of soccer correct score                  and
    "Home/Draw/Away ("H/D/A") markets pooled and bet on a weekly basis.                 The system
    operator will select multiple game (three, four, five, six or seven or more games) that will
    occur over the following days or a weekend. For example, the system operator may select
    three games on a Saturday, two games on a Sunday and the final one or two games on a
 5  Monday. Players will be challenged to select the correct score for each of the games. To win
    the Jackpot Pool, the player must select the correct score of each of the six or seven games.
    The cash in function described herein may be applied even on low leg games such as a pick
    3.
             Accordingly, the system operator may offer several different multi-leg outcomes. For
 '0 an exemplary description, a version of the pool wagering system will be described using a six
    leg correct score game run over six soccer matches. However, it should be readily apparent
    that the pool wagering system may be adapted to a PICK-n correct score model. In this
    example, it is assumed that the most likely result in any soccer match will have a high score
    of three for either team, as shown in FIG. 4 which shows the total goal expectancy over six
25  years for six premier leagues and the world cup. In the six leg pool wagering system, each leg
    may consist of seventeen outcomes, these being 1-0, 2-0, 2-1, 3-0, 3-2, 3-2 and "AOH" (any
    other home win) then 0-0, 1-1, and "AOD" (any other draw) and the reciprocal away results,
    to allow each leg to consist of 17 outcomes. The inclusion of terminal group scores "AOH,
    AOD, AOA ensure better user experience and manageable number of probable selections.
30  Such group could easily be extended to point spreads in games like basketball or any others,
    where the selections might be minus 25 points (-25), minus 24 points (-24), minus 20 points
    (-20).. .plus 20 points.(+20), plus 24 points (+24), plus 25 points (+25), etc.
             It should be understood that the foregoing is exemplary and the potential outcomes
    can be varied and may not be consistent over various leagues where the number of goals
                                                    cvi

    scored may be higher on average. The alternative anticipated scores for such a league may
    only influence the distribution, but not the applicability of the game, which will have a set of
    probabilities for each respective outcome that may be league dependent.
    It is contemplated that the operator may provide that the minimum amount of the "Jackpot
 5  Pool" is guaranteed at a set level, and most of the other bets offered could be guaranteed to
    insure first day retail popularity. Those players who correctly select scores and winners of
    each leg will share the maximum of either the guarantee, or the stakes of all the others (less
    any applicable deductions) and also gain entry into a bonus pool. The Bonus Pool may be
    won or shared by any individuals that successfully choose one or more correct score(s) the
 0  following week, or a nominated time or similar
            A Consolation Pool may be shared by those who select all the correct outcomes
    (H/D/A) or another subset of the correct score game, or on other variations based on, for
    example, any five of six or six of seven. The player in this example will not need to nominate
    H/D/A but his correct score prediction 'Home 2-0' will naturally be allocated to a "Home"
 5  outcome in the H/D/A determination of the Consolation Pool. As such on a correct score pick
    7, 7 correct H/D/A results in-line with a player's CS selections will mean the player "wins"
    the consolation prize. In racing terms, the consolation will frequently be based on the horse,
    dog, race car driver,etc. placing as opposed to winning.
            As each match is played - and each goal is scored - player bets represented by their
 '0 respective tickets will gradually be eliminated from the remaining tickets that can still win the
    Jackpot Pool. Those that remain will be able to anticipate that the value of their tickets
    increases as they see the results of each game. The central server system 12 may be
    configured to allow the display of the tickets that remain active for the Jackpot Pool on each
    of the wagering terminals or alternatively a display board at distributed wagering locations as
25  commonly provided in present establishments for example to display soccer matches, racing
    events and available wagering events and odds. While the flagship of the pool play will be
    the Jackpot Pool for correctly selecting the six or seven correct scores, other games such a
    pick three could also be offered to be completed within a single day or short time period.
            Between legs, and preferably after several of the games or matches have been
30  completed, but potentially also during the course of an event for example at the half-time of a
    match or event, players with "live" tickets may be offered the option of selling all or a portion
    of their tickets back to the system operator (or alternatively, directly or indirectly through the
    system operator, or directly to, any designated third party, such as, without limitation, one or
    more third party operator(s), business entity or entities such as a merchant(s), one or more

    other persons, etc.) or to retain their tickets and see whether their correct score predictions
    will unfold for the remaining games. As should be understood, any reference to system
    operator herein should be construed to apply equally to any third party as an alternative, even
    if not specifically mentioned. The buy-out option will preferably be communicated through
 5  the wagering station 14, wagering terminal 16, or internet connected computing devices 18
    24 from which the respective wager was placed and ticket purchased.              However, as the
    wagering stations 14 wagering terminals 16 may not be accessible to the player, it is further
    contemplated that at the point in time that the player places a wager in the pool play of the
    present disclosure they will provide contact information to allow communication with their
 0  computing system 18 that is linked on the central server system 12 to the particular ticket.
    Thus, the central server system 12 will be able to send a message to the ticket holder's
    computing system 18, smart phone 20, or tablet computer 22, providing details of the buy-out
    offer. If the ticket holder decides to cash in the ticket in response to the offer, the ticket
    holder may communicate the acceptance via the computing system 18, smart phone 20, or
 5  tablet computer 22, to the central server system 12. Alternatively, the ticket holder would
    present the ticket to one of the wagering stations 14 or wagering terminals 16 which in turn
    communicate the acceptance to the central server system 12, and upon verification, provide
    the ticket bearer with a payout in the form of cash, a voucher or check. If necessary or
    appropriate in the respective jurisdiction, the amount of the payout may be reduced in an
 '0 amount required to be withheld for tax purposes.
            It is anticipated that for the pool wagering system with the buy-back option of the
    present disclosure that there will be an initial guarantee by the operator of the Jackpot Pool in
    an amount sufficient to create initial interest, for example $1 million. Thereby, Jackpot Pool
    winners will always be guaranteed to win all or a share of a Jackpot Pool equal or in excess
25  of $1 million. In a first embodiment of the system and product, with respect to each ticket
    purchased the split following the takeout (e.g., set at 25%) may be as follows: 75% to fund
    the Jackpot Pool, 15% to fund the Bonus Pool, and 10% to fund the Consolation Pool(s).
    Other splits may be desirable and are expressly contemplated. Therefore if $250,000 (i.e.
    125,000 x $2 per ticket) was bet into the pool in the first week, the Jackpot Pool would stand
30  at $140,625 (i.e. $250,000 x 0.75 x 0.75    = $140,625), but any winners would share in the $1
    million guaranteed Jackpot Pool. Any winners of the Consolation Pool (i.e. those selecting
    five out of six of the correct scores accurately) will split a share of $25,000 between them less
    deductions (i.e. $25,000 x 0.75). The following week, winners would get the opportunity to
    select a correct score (for each successful ticket) from a featured match to be in with a chance

    of winning the Bonus Pool. Anyone who correctly predicts that correct score would therefore
    net a share of the Bonus Pool.
             Should the Jackpot Pool and Bonus Pool not be won for a few weeks, then those pools
    may build up to very significant amounts. For example, if players bet a total of $3,000,000
 5  into the Jackpot Pool (over a period) but fail to win the main Jackpot Pool prize, then a total
    win/jackpot payout of $2,250,000 will have built up and any winners the following week
    Jackpot Pool winners will get a share of that amount plus a share of the amounts staked in
    that week. Therefore, if another $3,000,000 is bet into the Jackpot Pool then the potential
    winnings will stand at $4,500,000. Should three people win the game, then they will split
 0  $4,500,000, giving them $1,500,000 winnings each (less their price of purchase and/or
    deductions other than the takeout, if applicable). The Consolation Pool will have been won
    previously - in all likelihood - and will for example stand at about $300,000 from the current
    week's stakes. If 30 players select five out of six correct scores that week, then they will win
    $7,500 each. The Bonus Pool will not have been won (yet) and will stand at $900,000. The
 5  three winners will have the chance to win the Bonus Pool in the next week, each getting one
    selection.
             As the matches or games for each of the respective tickets are preferably staggered
    over 2, 3 or even 4 days (typically 3 days Saturday to Monday), the system operator will have
    the ability to communicate to the respective wagering outlets or through an online interface to
 '0 offer players the ability to sell back any tickets which are still 'live' after one but preferably
    several of the matches as discussed above. In other circumstances, such as in tennis as an
    example, buy-back of tickets may be enacted intra leg (between sets or games), or in later
    legs. In football, for example, buy back may occur during live play.
             To further illustrate, if a player has a ticket where the first three matches/ games on a
25  Saturday were predicted correctly, he/she will have the facility to sell back to the system
    operator the same ticket and close out their position before Sunday's matches. The buyback
    value will be calculated by the server, potentially under the control of the system operator or
    the business partner, based on the number of match legs the ticket has already correctly
    predicted plus the remaining predictions for the subsequent games. When a ticket is cashed in
30  (i.e. bought back by the system operator), the ticket and all the rights of the ticket will vest in
    the system operator. In addition, this buy-out facility will include a margin for the system
    operator, anticipated to be around 15%.
             For example, if, going into the Monday night games, a player has two tickets which
    are still in play, and their predictions for the final two matches are 2-3 and 1-0 on one ticket

    and 2-2 and 1-0 on the other ticket, they will have the option to cash in either or both of their
    tickets. The server system under the direction and control of the system operator will
    calculate the estimated odds of winning the pool (and pay-out) with either ticket and will
    offer a buyback value to the player. The mechanism will be clearly explained to players who
 5  can opt to either exercise the opportunity to sell back their position or stay in the game until
    the end. While as noted above the central server system 12 may have the ability to provide
    information on the number of tickets that are still in play after each leg or match in the pool,
    it is also contemplated that the information may or may not be communicated to the
    respective ticket holders who receive the buy-out offer. Thus, the ticket holder may not be
 0  aware that there are only a few as opposed to dozens of still viable tickets in a given pool
    when the buy-out offer is communicated.             If the player is given some information for
    transparency, it may or may not be leg by leg information, and as such he might know how
    many tickets remain but he cannot know if he owns the exact permutations he owns unless
    the game is in the final leg. It may however be beneficial to communicate with the holders of
 5  every remaining live ticket the exact number of outstanding live tickets, and the scores those
    tickets have allocated in each leg. The only time the disclosures may not be communicated
    will be during concurrent games. The information, if given leg by leg, gives 100% clarity on
    the potential to split the jackpot once published for the final leg. Individual permutations and
    their ownership level may or may not be given, but they potentially could be.
 10          It is also envisioned that cash-in buy back may also operate during live play and offer
    continuous cash-in ability as soon as it is technically possible, for example at the half-time of
    a match or during the running of a match when possible. It is also contemplated that a ticket
    could be purchased with two or more potential outcomes selected for the final legs or events,
    for example by paying twice as much the player could have one selection in each of the first
25  five legs and then have two different selections for the sixth leg. In such an event, the system
    may offer to buy both outcomes, or each outcome and thereby divide the ticket as between
    the original player and the system operator. This type of fragmentation of the tickets could
    be extended to any leg of the event.
             The ticket buy back process may include an interactive process that bids the ticket
30  holder in a sequence of events for the ticket. For example, the system operator might
    originally offer the client $100,000 for a ticket that has 5 correct scores, if the client declines
    to sell the ticket, the system operator might revert to offer $105,000. At each step the ticket
    holder may not be aware if that is the final buy-out offer or a better buy-out offer will occur.
    In certain examples, there may also be only a limited number of buy-out offers made and/or
                                                     1)'s

    capable of being accepted with respect to a particular game or games, (i.e., made to/accepted
    by players participating in a particular game), so the greater the number of buy-out offers
    declined by a player and/or longer the time period before a player accepts an outstanding
    buy-out offer, the greater the risk may be that no additional buy-out offers will be made to
 5  that player or an outstanding buy-out offer made to a given player may be withdrawn (i.e.,
    once the maximum limit is reached). Furthermore, the ticket holder may have the period
    between the offer and the start of the next leg of the bet in which to make up their minds.
    Once the next leg has started, buy-out offers may be automatically withdrawn. It is further
    contemplated that the ability to trade or sell tickets back to the system operator may be
 0  continuous, and also in these circumstances, the bid may be extremely time sensitive.
    Additionally, as discussed above, the player or ticket holder may have the option to sell a
    fraction of their ticket to the system operator or other third party. In the first instance, this
    facility may be limited where desired, such as to 10% fractions. A player that sells a portion
    of his ticket back to the system operator may then only get paid in respect of the remaining
 5  fraction of the bet should the ticket be successful. The system operator may pay the other
    portion to itself (or the third party ticket purchaser) if that ticket was successful.
             If a player retains a portion of a ticket that is successful and thus entitles him to play a
    bonus game, in certain examples, the player will be allowed one selection (or other desired
    selection amount(s)), but will only win the fraction of the Bonus Pool that he holds in the
 '0 winning ticket. In other examples, a player may be allowed to decouple a ticket, such that a
    player may accept a full or partial buy-out of only certain parts of a ticket (i.e., for a given
    Jackpot, or only certain events listed on a ticket, such as particular games) and with the
    remaining parts of the ticket being unaffected, so that the player retains the entirely of these
    remaining parts of the ticket (i.e., such as a bonus and/or consolation pool, or any other
25  events listed on a ticket, such as remaining games). As mentioned above, when a ticket is
    cashed in (i.e. bought back by the system operator), the ticket and all the rights of the ticket
    will vest in the system operator. As such, the system operator would hold the other portion of
    the ticket and be entitled to select an outcome in the bonus leg and win the portion (or whole)
    bonus. It is contemplated that where the system operator holds a whole or part of a bonus
30  ticket, they will need to nominate their selection earlier than the remaining players, for
    example, the system operator must nominate their selection 2 hours prior the start of the
    bonus game, and members of the public will only need to offer their selection 1 hour before.
    This rule would help ensure that the system operator's selection cannot be made with the
    prior knowledge of the public selection. As a default, any player having a valid qualifying
                                                       1)r

    ticket that does not make a selection in the Bonus Pool for their bonus ticket will be allocated
    a selection having a high probability, for example a 1-1 draw. This may be provided in the
    terms and conditions ("T&Cs") of the game.
             In the context of a lottery game, in certain implementations any player having a valid
 5  qualifying ticket that is not present or found in time for the cash-in phase will be deemed not
    to sell. In the context of slot games, in certain implementations if a timer expires, the player
    will have been deemed not to have sold. Thus, generally speaking, if a player does not give
    input or is not present to make a decision as to what he/she wants to do, the game will
    proceed as if player does not want to sell.
 0           In a first implementation it is anticipated that only the system operator will be able to
    offer the buy-out option to the active tickets holders using the central server system 12 to
    communicate the offers. However, it is also contemplated that the system operator may use
    the central server system 12 to solicit offers from third parties that would be communicated to
    the active ticket holder. In this embodiment, the central server system 12 could communicate
 5  the details of the outstanding active tickets through all or a select number of wagering
    terminals 16 and allow bids for the outstanding active tickets to be submitted via the
    wagering terminals 16. As another alternative embodiment, it is contemplated that the system
    operator could facilitate the ability of members of the public to buy and sell active tickets like
    in the manner of a person to person betting exchange, such as, without limitation, of the type
 '0 offered by Betfair. Thus, it is also contemplated that the central server system 12 could allow
    the posting of available buy-back options so that the public could place buy-back offers for
    example though the wagering terminals 14 and the ticket holder could select the buy-back bid
    of his or her choosing.
             With the foregoing description of the implementation, it may be appreciated that
25  during the course of an exemplary wagering event (e.g., such as a pool, a parlay, an
    accumulator, etc.), the central server system 12 may go through certain of the following
    process steps, and in one or more rounds as may be required to complete a particular
    wagering event, as shown in FIG. 5, comprising:
        a) receiving information on the results of the events/matches from the input device;
30      b) interrogating the ticket base, to count live or active tickets that have correctly
             predicted each game outcome to date following each outcome;
        c) price the active tickets based on the number of active tickets that will hold a particular
             outcome;
        d) price the active ticket on the probability of the selected outcome;
                                                     1)7

         e) price the active ticket as against the scope of the Jackpot Pool;
         f) determine an attributed price ((pool size/number of ticket that hold that outcome)*
             probability of that outcome - margin) and offer price for the active ticket(s);
         g) communicate the offer price to the active ticket holder for all or a portion of the active
 5           ticket;
         h) receive confirmation of acceptance of the offer from the active ticket holder;
         i)  complete the buy-out transaction;
        j)   receive input on the completion of the final events / legs of the pool;
         k) distribute the Jackpot Pool to holders of the winning active ticket(s).
 0           Further, the concept and system disclosed herein can be adapted for other multi
    outcome wagering scenarios and may include any desired manner of wagering, including but
    not limited to those that accommodate accumulator or parlay wagering, as an illustration. For
    purposes of this disclosure, a parlay or accumulator wager comprises a single wager that links
    together two or more discrete events and in any combination (e.g., legs or divisible portion
 5  thereof) and is dependent on correctly selecting the outcome of the two or more discrete
    events. For instance, a parlay or accumulator wager as referenced herein may include a
    double, treble or any other type of multiple wager as may be known in the art. As one
    example, an accumulator or parlay may have much higher payoffs than wagers placed on
    individual discrete events since the difficulty of hitting it (i.e., correctly selecting all event
 '0 outcomes) is much higher. If any of the discrete events in the accumulator or parlay lose (i.e.,
    , the selected outcome is incorrect) the entire accumulator or parlay loses. In certain other
    examples, where the parlay or accumulator wager includes combinations of discrete events,
    and one or more of those combinations lose, the player may be still eligible to win some
    portion of a jackpot, a consolation, or some other award as may be desired. Thus, in the
25  context of the present disclosure, an accumulator or parlay wager may be placed on a multi
    leg event (either in the entirety or a designated portion or portions of legs, etc.), such that the
    outcome of each leg corresponding to the accumulator/parlay wager must be correctly
    selected for the accumulator/parlay wager to be eligible for a designated prize or award (e.g.,
    a jackpot) or portion thereof. In certain examples, the parlay or accumulator wager may be
30  selectable by at least one of a player, a third party, the wagering system or some other
    manner as may be desired. Notably, for example and without limitation, the terms wagers,
    wagering, bets and betting as referenced herein may include, without limitation and for
    illustration purposes only, single wagers, multiple wagers, full cover wagers, full cover
    wagers with singles, 'Any to Come' (ATC) or 'if cash' wagers, specialty wagers, forecasts,

    fixed, variable, guaranteed, parimutuel wagering, fixed-odds wagering, and any other
    variations known in the art, etc., alone and in any desired combinations. For example,
    multiple wagers may include a parlay or accumulator wager.
             As another example, a multi-outcome wagering scenario may include slot machines.
 5  In this alternative, the system could be incorporated into any type of slot machine game, such
    as a progressive jackpot played for example on a slot machine 26 as depicted in FIG. 1. In
    this example, each reel or defined number of reels of the slot machine 26 may correspond to a
    different leg of a multi-outcome wagering event. As noted above, each reel may be a virtual
    reel (as in a video or electronic slot machine, for example) or a mechanical reel as in
 0  conventional slot machines. Further, any of the type of wager input devices described above
    in connection with fig. 1 may be used, or alternatively a conventional slot machine may
    operate as the wager input device. In addition, there may be a plurality of slot machines 26
    provided for participation by multiple participants, and each of the slot machines being in
    communication with a server system controller. Currently, slot machine based games have an
 5  outcome which is determined almost immediately even though the machine may take a few
    seconds to display the results. Even in the present systems, the game is complete before a
    person has the chance to realize that they are getting closer and closer to the premier prize. In
    most examples the reels stop one by one, with only 1 second or so between each reel.
    However, the display of each reel stopping is primarily for effect as the outcome of the game
 '0 is determined by the random number generator in the game controller shortly after the play is
    initiated.
             The present disclosure may be implemented in various configurations for gaming
    machines or wager terminals known in the art, including but not limited to a dedicated
    gaming machine or wager terminal, wherein the computerized instructions for controlling any
25  games (which are provided by the gaming machine or wager terminal) are provided with the
    gaming machine or wager terminal prior to delivery to a gaming establishment, and a
    changeable gaming machine or wager terminal, where the computerized instructions for
    controlling any games (which are provided by the gaming machine or wager terminal) are
    downloadable to the gaming machine or wager terminal through a data network when the
30  gaming machine or wager terminal is in a gaming establishment.          These types of gaming
    machines and their respective operation in both stand alone and pool or progressive games
    are disclosed in detail in U.S. patent no. 8,105,149, incorporated herein by reference.
             By incorporating the concept of the present disclosure, the slot machine could be
    programmed such that once a first level of jackpot indicators appear in a winning sequence
                                                    1)0

    according to a first random number generation, the selection and display of the remaining
    indicator or indicators is paused and an offer to buy-out the player is presented. For example,
    a person with four "$" on the first four reels and the last reel spinning is one step from a
    jackpot, (e.g. $2,000,000) and if the machine has a 20/1 odds to get the last reel on a "$" then
 5  the operator could offer to buy-the spin for $100,000, or any fraction of it for the
    proportionate amount. If the player accepted the buyout, the machine would print a cash-out
    ticket for the buyout amount. The player either accepts the offer, in full or in part, or rejects
    the offer whereupon the random number for the remaining wheel is generated and the spin is
    completed. If the buyout was accepted and the final indicator selection results in a win, then
 0  the operator banks the amount of the jackpot.         If the player sells only a fraction of the
    potential jackpot, then the player receives credits, either on the machine or in a ticket print, of
    the fractional remainder and the operator banks the balance.
            It is anticipated that the concept will provide great drama and a limited period for it to
    be resolved, and allow players to trade and control their fate. From an operator standpoint,
 5  there may be a limit on the duration of the buyout offer, for example thirty seconds or one
    minute. This may be counted down for the player on the display, so that the player is forced
    to make a decision or simply allow the time to expire and the last indicator to be selected.
    While in theory the system could be used as soon as a single indicator is selected, it is
    believed that the system is more practically implemented when there are several indicators
 '0 that must align before extending the final spin to provide the buyout or trade-in option.
    Thus, it is contemplated that the option would not be provided until the bet/selection has been
    70-90% resolved or else the value of the buyout option is not sufficient to entice the player to
    cash-out and the progress and rate of play may be unacceptably slowed down.
            The slot machine based system provides additional benefits to the house or casino in
25  which the machine is located. First, for an in-house only progressive or pool game system,
    the buy-back option allows the house to bid on and potentially receive (if the bid is accepted)
    the accumulated jackpot pool. In addition, in the event that the jackpot pool is a progressive
    or pool game distributed over a number of properties, so that the jackpot pool will grow faster
    or in the event that a gaming machine manufacturer licenses the use of the machines across
30  various properties, the casino hosting the game (or the gaming machine OEM) may offer the
    buy-out of the jackpot pool option at the termination of any spin, including the first spin and,
    again if the bid is accepted, the casino making the offer would receive the jackpot pool as if it
    were the player who had won. In this situation, the host casino would generate revenues from
    the game play contributed to the jackpot pool that occurred in other casinos. They can also
                                                     'A

    make money by buying back at less than actual value, i.e., charging margin on the sold ticket
    or fraction of a ticket
             In accordance with the buy-out pool option of the present disclosure, the cash out
    button of the gaming machine 26 may be illuminated when the first sequence of the display
 5  for example the first three of four reels align such that the player may be on track to win the
    Jackpot Pool. In that event, the central server system 12 or the wager terminal itself causes
    the display to present a buy-out offer to the player. If the player elects to cash-out, the player
    may push the cash out button and cash out to receive a cash payment or other suitable form of
    payment corresponding to the offer presented on the display, whereupon the remaining
 0  random selection is made to determine if the Jackpot Pool is won.
             In one embodiment, the player may be offered the option of cashing out a percentage
    of the potential Jackpot Pool, for example by depressing the cash out button the players sells
    10% or 25% of the potential Jackpot Pool for the amount offered on the display. If the player
    for example sells 50% of the Jackpot Pool opportunity for $50,000, the player will be issued a
 5  credit for the $50,000 and then the remaining wheel spin or leg is completed. If the result is a
    win of the Jackpot Pool, then the player will receive credits for 50% of the Jackpot Pool,
    while the operator or house retains the remainder.
             When the player decides to end the game play, he can select the cash out button at
    which time the player may receive cash or other payout mechanisms such as tickets or credit
 '0 slips redeemable by a cashier (or other suitable redemption system) or funding to the player's
    electronically recordable identification card or the player's online account.
             It is further contemplated that the jackpot buyout option and the concept and system
    disclosed herein can be adapted for a variety of other 'multi leg,' multi-outcome wagering
    scenarios, such as, for example, keno, poker, racing, video games (including live and online
25  video games, as examples) and lotteries, including but not limited to private, public, state,
    national, international, social (e.g., health care or social lottery types) or any other type of
    lottery systems, etc.     For example, in a lottery system, after the periodic ticket purchase
    interval, the lottery operator may draw a defined number of items, such as numbered balls. As
    should be understood any indicators other than numbers may also be utilized where desired,
30  such as symbols, colors, pictures, etc. In addition, the game may comprise items other than
    randomly drawn balls where desired, or pre-printed numbered tickets, that then may be
    selected by balls or random numbers or other process. Any of the type of wager input devices
    described above in connection with Fig. 1 may be used, or alternatively a conventional lottery
    machine may be utilized for input of player handpicked numbers, for providing electronically
                                                    11

    generated numbers, such as quick pick or smart pick numbers, and providing a record of the
    lottery numbers for the player, such as by printing of a ticket. In addition, a plurality of wager
    input devices or lottery machines may be utilized and each in communication with a server
    system controller. The total amount of numbered balls making up the lottery system may be
 5  any desired number.
             In addition, the lottery system may be comprised of different legs by having one or
    more balls drawn at any given time that make up each leg. In this example, each of the balls
    may be selected in any desired manner, such as being hand selected from a container or
    selected via conventional lottery machines, such as gravity pick machines, air mix machines,
 0  or via computerized random number generators, as examples. The lottery system could also
    be set up in any desired manner for how players may win. For example, it could be an all or
    nothing arrangement where a player must win all legs to win a final Jackpot, or win a defined
    number of legs to win one or more interim Jackpots before all legs are completed, etc.
             In addition, a buy-out offer (or partial buy-out offer) may be made at any time after a
 5  ticket is obtained until completion of the event, including (without limitation) after a
    predetermined number of numbers have been drawn, to a player and the player may sell all or
    a portion of their ticket. The buy-out offer may also come from a single party or multiple
    parties; for instance, multiple parties operating in collaboration or multiple parties that may
    not be operating in collaboration (for example, where the lottery system may "bring" certain
 '0 parties together for purposes of accumulating adequate resources for purposes of a buy-out
    offer being made). In certain examples, the party or parties buying all or part of the ticket in
    response to an accepted buy-out offer will obtain legal ownership of the ticket (100%
    ownership or a fractional ownership share where only a part is sold, i.e., where both the buyer
    and seller will end up with part ownership), and will be entitled to win at least a portion of
25  any future Jackpots or other prizes that may occur from the point of purchase moving forward
    (or even share in the proceeds of prior Jackpots or prizes if set up in that manner). In certain
    other examples, the party or parties buying all or part of the ticket in response to an accepted
    buy-out offer will not obtain legal ownership of the ticket, but merely obtain an entitlement
    (e.g., a contract) to win at least a portion or all of any future Jackpots or other prizes that may
30  occur from the point of purchase moving forward.
             As should be understood, wherever the term "party" is used throughout this disclosure
    it should be broadly construed to comprise a single entity or plurality of entities. Also, its
    should be understood that both the player or ticket owner as well as the party making the buy
    out offer may be comprised of a single entity or a plurality of entities.

           The value or price of the buy-out offer and/or ticket sold may be variable as may be
   desired. For instance, the value or price of the buy-out offer can be set by various sources,
   and be based on any objective and/or subjective standards, such as an auction, a calculated
   probability (e.g., of winning one or more legs of a multi-outcome wagering event), random
 5 number-generated probabilities, a lottery system similar to server system 12 discussed above,
   a party or parties initiating the buy-out offer, an independent third party/parties or
   resource(s), such as the system operator, the seller of the ticket, and/or it may be the
   byproduct of negotiations or a barter between the buyer and seller to arrive at an acceptable
   price, etc. In addition, the value or price can also be affected by the number of parties
 0 receiving a buy-out offer; for example, an amount X where there is one party and X divided
   by 3 where there are 3 parties, etc. As for timing, the buy-out offer could be made prior to
   any legs occurring or at any time prior to completion of the event, such as between any of the
   defined number of legs, and may be made just to winners or to any other parties, such as
   partial winners or to players who have not won at all, but who still have an active ticket, such
 5 as before any legs have been completed or a ticket that has separate divisions, etc. In
   addition, the value or price relating to a particular buy-out offer (or ticket sold) may be
   represented, conveyed or otherwise characterized in any desired manner, such as, and without
   limitation, as a jackpot or portion thereof (e.g., as at least a portion of at least one jackpot; for
   example, a designated jackpot that may be smaller (i.e. in value and/or price) than a larger
 O jackpot that may be available to a winner/winners of a multi-outcome wagering event and set
   by any of the various sources above), as a prize, a payment, an award (e.g. monetary and/or
   nonmonetary awards, such as those described above), or any other suitable manner. Separate
   and apart from buy-out offers, tickets may be exchanged or transferred from one player to
   another or to any other party or entity type and at any desired time, and with legal ownership
25 also being transferred at the same time. In some circumstances there may be merely an
   exchange of tickets and no other value or payment made from one party to another. In other
   circumstances there may be a value or payment made from one party to another, which can
   comprise anything the parties may agree to, such as some form of monetary payment or
   credit, or some other form of "value", such as, without limitation, any goods or services or
30 incentives, etc.
           In one example of a lottery system, the first x number of balls would be drawn at one
   or more predetermined times, such as from one "barrel", which would correspond to one or
   more legs, and after a delay of a certain interval, such as one week, the last leg or bonus ball
   would be drawn. For instance, 5 balls would be drawn on a weekend day and make up the

    first leg, although any other day may be utilized as well, or even a shorter or longer interval,
    such as within minutes or hours, or a desired number of days, weeks, months or years. Also,
    as should be understood, the number of balls drawn making up the first leg may vary as well,
    such as fewer or more numbered balls. A determination would then be made as to the number
 5  of tickets having the correct numbers. This may be accomplished electronically via the server
    system controller. In certain examples, the determination may involve identifying tickets
    having all 5 numbers correct. However, in other examples, the determination may involve
    identifying those tickets that have some designated number of balls correct less than 5, such
    as 4 out of 5, or 3 out of 5, or 2 out of 5 or 1 out of 5, etc. In addition, in certain examples the
 0  particular order or sequence of numbers on a ticket are required to correspond to the order of
    the balls drawn to be considered correct. In certain other examples, the order or sequence of
    numbers on a ticket do not need to correspond to the order of the balls drawn; so long as the
    ticket contains the requisite number of balls that were drawn somewhere on the ticket
    (irrespective of the order drawn). Any number of the holders of tickets having the correct
 5  numbers may be provided with a buy-out offer, conducted as a fixed price offer (that may not
    be consistent to each player, if some players hold the same terminal number as others and as
    such are only eligible to share the jackpot), or as part of an auction system where a limited
    number of "buy outs" may be offered, as examples, followed by a drawing or drawings to
    determine the winners from the remaining ticket holders that did not accept the buyout offer.
 '0 In addition, with respect to those examples where a ticket having less than all balls correct
    would qualify, the particular buy-out offer may be relevant to the number of balls that are
    correct, for example, a larger buyout offer the more correct numbers on a ticket, and/or
    entitlement to a larger or better prize or a bonus the more correct numbers on a ticket, etc.
    Alternatively, any of the players having winning tickets (or those having a certain amount of
25  correct numbers) may qualify for a supplemental lottery drawing, which could be the final
    leg(s) of the lottery or a bonus round, as examples. For instance, the qualified players may
    select or obtain one or more additional number or numbers on a new ticket for purposes of
    the supplemental drawing. For example, the supplemental drawing could be in the form of a
    bonus ball, and the winner or winners matching the bonus ball would win or share in the
30  Jackpot or a bonus Jackpot.
             For instance, in this example, each of the holders of tickets having the correct
    numbers (or any other desired number of ticket holders) may be offered to attend the draw of
    the remaining number or numbers in an organized event, such as via a live event attended by
    all holders in person at a defined location, or attended by a communications medium from an

    offsite location, such via a video conference or web interface, such as Skype or ooVoo, as
    examples (perhaps the following week or other desired time).           In addition, the live event
    could be made accessible for viewing by the public, such as an in person audience, or more
    generally viewed over any mass communications medium, such as broadcast over television,
 5  cable, satellite, the internet, radio, mobile communication device (e.g., mobile phones,
    tablets, computers, PDA (personal digital assistant), etc.), social media or any other desired
    medium. As an example, the lottery system may be set as a reality show that is viewed live or
    pre-recorded and broadcast over television or other medium to the viewing public. In
    addition, in this example, before the remaining number(s) are selected, the lottery operator
 0  may provide remaining ticket holders with a buyout option, available to a limited number of
    players or all of them on occasion. Further, in this illustration, a bidding process may be
    included as an option, which would have the effect to add drama to the conclusion of the
    game. For instance, the buyout bid could potentially be provided to all the people at the same
    amount for their ticket and let them rush to accept, and with the bidding process closed once a
 5  certain percentage have "sold" their ticket in response to the buyout offer, and then the last
    ball or balls would be drawn. As an alternative, for example to maximize interest and tension
    for television purposes, the bonus ball (or last leg or alternatively any other leg) may be
    determined by a multi-step process of elimination, resulting in one or more remaining
    numbered balls that are then used to compare against the players tickets to determine if there
 '0 are any winners (i.e., removing one or more balls in each leg, and including a plurality of legs
    so that more and more balls are removed over time, until just a certain number of balls
    remain, such as one ball), rather than a process of selecting one or more balls in one action
    that are used to compare against the players tickets, but either process may be used as desired.
    Additionally it may be possible that between each elimination process or leg (or fewer than
25  each but between specified legs) the individuals still eligible for a prize may or may not be
    offered an additional chance to "cash in their ticket" with a subsequent buy-out offer or
    offers, and the buy-out offers may also be increasing in value as their probability of winning
    increases as the event proceeds toward the last leg or bonus ball. Alternatively, the buyout
    offer could be provided to less than all players, at different times, at different amounts, and/or
30  having a defined period of time for players to accept the buyout bid. It should be understood
    that the multi-step process of elimination may be used in any manner in connection with a
    lottery system, such as, including for either or both of any initial lottery drawings or any
    bonus drawings.

             Further, the percentage of players required in order to trigger the close of the bidding
    process may be established at any desired value, for instance, ranging all the way up to 100%
    of the players that have accepted the buyout offer. The lottery operator may assume the
    ownership of the ticket from the players that have accepted the buyout offer. Any winners
 5  after the final number(s) are drawn would receive or share in the jackpot. If there is no
    winner, in one implementation the jackpot may be rolled into another game or event.
    Alternatively, players may also be allowed to sell a fraction of their tickets in response to a
    buy-out offer, to ensure the game is not 100% binary as an option, and with the proportion
    being any desired amount, such as being subject to commercial considerations of drama, and
 0  interaction of players.
             It should be understood that various changes and modifications to the presently
    preferred embodiments and examples described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the
    art. For instance, each of the features and aspects described in connection with any of the
    various presently preferred embodiments and examples can also be used in connection with
 5  any or all of the other of the presently preferred embodiments and examples alone or in
    combination, even though not explicitly described therein. Further it should be understood
    that all of the features and aspects described herein may be provided through use of any
    suitable hardware, software or combination of both, as may be desired and in any manner. In
    addition, for example, the gaming system disclosed herein may provide the awards to
 '0 winning players in any suitable manner, such as through a suitable bonus or secondary game
    or event determined by the implementer or operator of the gaming system, and may include,
    without limitation:
             1)      Dividing any multi (betting/dealing/trading) outcome into its sub components.
             2)      Allow change of ticket ownership or ticket exchange between players or other
25  entities at any time, including at any point after a ticket is obtained or an event is initiated up
    through completion of the event, after each stage of the game being resolved, or at any other
    desired time.    The recipient of the ticket that has changed ownership or been exchanged
    would assume the same position as the original owner; in effect stepping into the shoes of the
    original owner, and legally supersede the original owner with all rights associated with the
30  ticket. For example, a change of ticket ownership can occur via a buy-out, and the party
    acquiring the ticket would have all the rights as the original owner, including being entitled to
    win any award or jackpot that may relate to the ticket in connection with any wagering event.
    In other examples, legal ownership of the ticket would remain with a player, but the
    entitlement to any award or jackpot is what would reside with another party where a "ticket

    change" has occurred, such as through a buy-out, or trading or giving a ticket to another
    player, etc.
             Similarly, a party purchasing a partial buy-out of a ticket (i.e., less than 100% of the
    rights associated with the ticket) would be entitled to win any award or jackpot for which the
 5  ticket is redeemable in proportion to the interest purchased via the partial buy-out. Thus, if
    the party purchased a 30% interest in the ticket, the party would be entitled to 30% of the
    winnings for which the ticket is redeemable.        As with full buy-outs, partial buy-outs can
    occur prior to or at any stage of a wagering event.
             In an illustrative example of a ticket exchange, a pool may be "seeded" (i.e. a operator
 0   may place £3000 worth of bets into the pool) 4-5-6 hours in             advance of a particular
     wagering event. As the public play into a pool becomes significant, rather than continuing to
     grow the pool (i.e., continuing to add money from bets) and have the operator's commitment
     to keep the prices inline escalate, the operator can transfer some of the existing seed money
     or investment to a player buying a tote ticket. Notably, the tote ticket may change ownership
 5   in whole or in part, before the pool is closed, or after the pool has closed but before
     completion of the wagering event.
             3)      Calculate the odds specifically, allow market forces to determine a sale price,
    use other particular subjective and/or objective factors, and/or use any desired combination
     of the foregoing.
 10          4)      Allow the ownership of remaining tickets or number to be transparently
     displayed to the player and or audience, to help cash in or buy-back offers or process.
             5) Transact, with or without a bidding process or joint bidding process, or auction the
     ticket exchange. The implementer or operator of the gaming system disclosed herein may
     also designate the number of awards, the time at which those awards are provided to each
25   winning player, the number of rounds in the bonus event, the number of designated outcomes
     in each round and/or the number of available outcomes in each round to suitable values.
             Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and
     scope of the present disclosure and without diminishing its intended advantages. For
     example, any of the concepts and features described in connection with any example,
30   embodiment or variation herein may also apply and be utilized in connection with any other
     example, embodiment or variation described herein alone or in combination. In addition, any
     of the concepts and features disclosed herein may be provided by appropriate hardware,
     software and/or combination of both hardware and software where desired and deemed

appropriate. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the
appended claims.

                                                CLAIMS
            1.      A method of conducting a multi-outcome wagering event for one or more
    players, wherein the wagering event comprises a defined number of legs, and wherein a
    player is presented with at least one of a buy-out offer and a partial buy-out offer prior to
 5  completion of all of the defined number of legs, the method comprising the steps of:
            providing one or more wagering input devices in communication with a system
    controller through which one or more players may participate in a multi-outcome wagering
    event, said system controller being adapted for:
                   initiating the multi-outcome wagering event for one or more players, said
 0  multi-outcome wagering event comprised of a defined number of legs, wherein one or
    more jackpots, or a portion thereof, is awarded at least where a particular number of the
    defined number of legs are completed;
                   receiving a wager via the one or more wagering input devices in response to
    input from a player desiring to participate in the multi-outcome wagering event, wherein
 5  the wager coincides with each of the defined number of legs;
                   generating a record reflecting the wager associated with the player at the
    system controller;
                   receiving input of an outcome of each of the defined number of legs
    corresponding to the multi-outcome wager event;
 10                generating and causing display via the one or more wagering input devices
    the outcome of each of the defined number of legs to a player;
                   identifying one or more players eligible to win each of the defined number of
    legs based on the wager from among players participating in the multi-outcome wagering
    event,
25                 determining any players eligible to win at least one jackpot or a portion
    thereof based on the potential outcome of each of the defined number of legs in comparison
    against the record reflecting the wager from among players participating in the multi
    outcome wagering event, wherein players eligible to win at least one leg are eligible to win
    at least one jackpot or a portion thereof;
30                 initiating and causing display of at least one of a buy-out offer and partial
    buy-out offer via the one or more wagering input devices to any number of the one or more
    players that are eligible to win at least one jackpot for at least a portion of said at least one
    jackpot, said buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer being initiated at any time before the
    multi-outcome wagering event has been completed;
                                                    11

                    receiving an acceptance of the buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer via the
     one or more wagering input devices in response to input from a particular number of the
     players eligible to win at least one jackpot that have accepted the buy-out offer or partial
     buy-out offer, each of the players accepting the buy-out offer will no longer be eligible to
 5   exclusively win the at least one jackpot, wherein each of the players not accepting the buy
     out offer will remain eligible to win the at least one jackpot, and wherein each of the
     players accepting a partial buy-out offer remains eligible to win at least a portion of the at
     least one jackpot;
                      issuing a credit, tokens, currency or an award to the one or more players
 0   accepting the buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer;
                    completing the remainder of the defined number of legs to finish the multi
     outcome wagering event;
                     determining if any of the players have won the at least one jackpot or portion
    thereof;
 5                   notifying the players that have won the jackpot or portion thereof; and
                     issuing a credit, tokens, currency or an award to the players that have won the
    jackpot or portion thereof.
              2.      The method of claim         1, wherein the multi-outcome       wagering event
     comprises one or more wagering events, the defined number of legs comprises one or more
 10  legs,     and    wherein     each      of   the   defined    number      of   legs    comprises
     at least one of an entire wagering event, a partial wagering event, a divisible component of a
     wagering     event,   multiple    independent   wagering   events   occurring   sequentially or
     concurrently, and a compilation of related wagering events, wherein the one or more
     wagering events comprises one or more selected from the group consisting of sporting
25   events, eSports, e-sports, competitive gaming, electronic sports, lotteries, real games and
     virtual games, and wherein the wager comprises a potential outcome for each of the legs.
              3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the wager is one or more of selectable by
     being handpicked by the player, provided electronically on request of the player through
     communication between the one or more wagering input devices and the system controller,
30   provided via a random number generator associated with the system controller, a quick pick
     or a smart pick.
              4.      The method of claim 2, wherein the games comprise one or more selected
     from the group consisting of slot machines, keno, poker, video games and racing.
              5.      The method of claim 1, wherein accepting a partial buy-out offer comprises a

   player accepting less than the buy-out offer amount, said acceptance resulting in the player
   remaining eligible to win at least a portion of at least one jackpot.
            6.       The method of claim 1, wherein the buy-out offer is initiated on behalf of at
   least one of a third party and a player, and when a buy-out offer is accepted, the third party
 5 becomes eligible for winning at least a portion of the jackpot.
            7.       The method of claim 1, wherein the system controller is further programmed
   to award the jackpot, or any fractional portion thereof, upon the completion of the multi
   outcome event pool.
            8.       The method of claim        1, wherein the multi-outcome      wagering event
 0 comprises
   one or more virtual games, said method further comprising:
            initiating the buy-out offer prior to completion of the one or more virtual games, but
   after an outcome of the one or more virtual games has been determined,
            said buy-out offer including a price that is at least partially based on random
 5 numbergenerated probabilities.
            9.       The method of claim 1, further comprising initiating a bidding process
   among
   a designated number of players interested in accepting at least one of a buy-out offer and
   partial buy-out offer, and closing the bidding process after a certain span of time or after a
 O certain number of the buy-out and partial buy-out offers have been accepted.
            10.      The method of claim 1, wherein one or more interim jackpots are awarded
   where a particular number of the defined number of legs are completed prior to completion
   of the multi-outcome wagering event.
            11.      The method of claim 1, further comprising awarding at least one consolation
25 jackpot where a consolation scenario is won.
            12.      The method of claim 11, wherein said consolation scenario comprising at
   least one of winning a predetermined subset of the defined number of legs and selecting a
   predetermined number of non-winning legs that each finishes within a predetermined
   position of a corresponding winning leg.
30          13.      The method of claim 10, wherein there is a span of time before at least one
   final leg of the multi-outcome event is completed, and the at least one final leg is completed
   in a live or pre-recorded event attended by the players eligible to win a jackpot, a portion
   thereof, or a bonus prize.
            14.      The method of claim 13, further comprising initiating a buy-back offer, prior
                                                    A1

   to the at least one final leg, to at least one player eligible to win the jackpot, the portion
   thereof, or the bonus, said buy-back offer being for a portion of an entirety of said jackpot,
   said portion thereof, or said bonus prize.
            15.     The method of claim 13, wherein the live or pre-recorded event is a reality
 5 show that is broadcast over a mass communications medium.
            16.     The method of claim 15, wherein the mass communications medium
   comprises at least one of television, satellite, cable, the Internet, mobile communication
   device, social media and radio.
            17.     The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more wagering input devices are
 0 adapted for generating a wager for a player reflecting one or more predicted outcomes of the
   multi-outcome wagering event.
            18.     The method of claim 1, wherein ownership or partial ownership of the wager
   may be changed from player to player at any time before or during the course of the multi
   outcome wagering event.
 5          19.     The method of claim 18, wherein the system controller is further adapted for
   identifying the ownership status of the wager.
           20.      The method of claim 1, wherein the wager further comprises a list that is at
   least one of printed on a ticket, printed on a voucher, and displayed via the one or more
   wagering input devices.
 0         21.      The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more wagering devices comprise
   at least one of a wagering terminal, a wagering workstation, a personal computer, a smart
   phone, a tablet computing device, a gaming machine, a slot machine, and a lottery machine.
           22.     The method of claim 1, wherein the multi-outcome wagering event comprises
   a pool or is progressive, wherein said pool is at least one of fixed, variable and guaranteed.
25         23.      The method of claim 1, wherein where there are no winners of at least one
   jackpot, said at least one jackpot is rolled into another multi-outcome wagering event or at
   least partially awarded to an operator of the multi-outcome wagering event.
           24.      The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more jackpots
   comprises a monetary award provided to the player in the form of at least one of currency,
30 tokens and credit.
           25.      The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more jackpots, the portion
   thereof, or the award comprises one or more selected from the group consisting of monetary
   awards, nonmonetary awards, a prize, a payment, a designated currency, virtual currency,
   tokens, credits, coupons, services, personal property, real property, virtual property, assets,
                                                  A')

    investments, negotiable instruments, commodities, food, lodging, entertainment, alleviation
    of obligations, gaming opportunities and wager enhancement.
             26.     The method of claim 1, wherein the multi-outcome wagering event
    comprises
 5  at least one of a bonus leg and a consolation leg,
             wherein designated players who have one a defined number of legs qualify for the
    bonus leg and designated players who have lost a defined number of legs qualify for the
    consolation leg, and
             wherein correctly predicting an outcome of the bonus leg qualifies at least one
 0  designated player for at least a portion of a bonus prize and correctly predicting an outcome
    of the consolation leg qualifies at least one designated player for at least a portion of a
    consolation prize.
             27.     A wagering system including one or more wagering input devices for
    allowing
 5  the placement of a wager on a multi-outcome wagering event comprising one or more
    wagering events, the wagering system comprising:
             a system controller configured to communicate with the one or more wagering input
    devices, said system controller configured to:
                    initiate the multi-outcome wagering event for one or more players, said multi
 10 outcome wagering event comprised of a defined number of legs comprising one or more
    legs, wherein one or more jackpots, or a portion thereof, is awarded at least where a
    particular number of the defined number of legs are completed;
                    receive a wager via the one or more wagering input devices in response to
    input from a player desiring to participate in the multi-outcome wagering event, wherein the
25  wager coincides with each of the defined number of legs;
                    generate a record reflecting the wager associated with the player at the
    system controller;
                    receive input of an outcome of each of the defined number of legs
    corresponding to the multi-outcome wager event;
30                  generate and cause display via the one or more wagering input devices the
    outcome received of each of the defined number of legs to a player;
                    identify one or more players eligible to win each of the defined number of
    legs based on the wager from among players participating in the multi-outcome wagering
    event,

                     determine any players eligible to win at least one jackpot or a portion thereof
     based on the potential outcome of each of the defined number of legs in comparison against
     the record reflecting the wager from among players participating in the multi-outcome
     wagering event, wherein players eligible to winming at least one leg remain eligible to win
 5   at least one jackpot or a portion thereof;
                     initiate and cause display of at least one of a buy-out offer and a partial buy
     out offer via the one or more wagering input devices to any number of the one or more
     players that remain eligible to win at least one jackpot, or portion thereof, for at least a
     portion of said at least one jackpot, said buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer being initiated
 0   before the multi-outcome wagering event has been completed;
                      receive an acceptance of at least one of the buy-out offer and partial buy-out
     offer via the one or more wagering input devices in response to input from a particular
     number of the one or more players eligible to win the at least one jackpot or portion thereof
     that have accepted the buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer, wherein each of the one or
 5   more players accepting the buy-out offer will no longer be eligible to exclusively win the at
     least one jackpot, wherein each of the one or more players not accepting the buy-out offer
     will remain eligible to win the at least one jackpot, and wherein each of the one or more
     players accepting a partial buy-out offer remains eligible to win at least a portion of the at
     least one jackpot;
 10                   issue a credit, tokens, currency or an award to the one or more players
     accepting the buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer;
                      complete the remainder of the defined number of legs to finish the multi
     outcome wagering event;
                      determine if any of the players have won the jackpot or portion thereof;
25                    notify the players that have won the jackpot or portion thereof; and
                      issue a credit, tokens, currency or an award to the players that have won the
    jackpot or portion thereof.
              28.     The wagering system of claim 27, wherein the multi-outcome wagering
     event comprises a plurality of legs, each comprising at least one of an entire sporting event,
30   a partial sporting event, a divisible component of a sporting event, multiple independent
     sporting events occurring sequentially or concurrently, and a compilation of related sporting
     events.
              29.     The wagering system of claim 28, wherein the system controller is further
     configured to:
                                                     AA

            initiate one or more buy-out offers or partial buy-out offers for any combination of
       the plurality of legs at any time prior to completion of the multi-outcome wagering
       event; and receive an acceptance of said one or more buy-out offers or partial buy-out
       offers.
 5          30.      The wagering system of claim 27, wherein the multi-outcome wagering
    event
    comprises at least one of a bonus leg and a consolation leg,
            wherein designated players who have won a defined number of legs qualify for the
    bonus leg and designated players who have lost a defined number of legs qualify for the
 0  consolation leg, and
            wherein correctly predicting an outcome of the bonus leg qualifies at least one
    designated player for at least a portion of a bonus prize and correctly predicting an outcome
    of the consolation leg qualifies at least one designated player for at least a portion of a
    consolation prize.
 5          31.      The wagering system of claim 27, wherein the wager comprises at least one
    of
    an accumulator, parlay, fixed odds single or fixed odds multiple wager comprising at least
    one or more combinations of at least a portion of the defined number of legs, wherein the
    one or more combinations are selectable by at least one of a player, a third party, and the
 O  wagering system, and wherein at any time before all legs included in the wager have been
    completed, at least one partial buy-out offer is initiated to any number of the one or more
    players remaining eligible to win at least one of a jackpot, a portion of a jackpot or an
    award.
           32.      The wagering system of claim 27, wherein the one or more jackpots, the
25  portion thereof, or the award comprises one or more selected from the group consisting of
    monetary awards, nonmonetary awards, a prize, a payment, a designated currency, virtual
    currency, tokens, credits, coupons, services, personal property, real property, virtual
    property,    assets, investments,   negotiable   instruments,  commodities,    food,  lodging,
    entertainment, alleviation of obligations, gaming opportunities and wager enhancement.
30         33.     The wagering system of claim 27 wherein the wagering event and wager
   comprises one or more of fixed odds single wagers, multiple wagers, full cover wagers, full
   cover wagers with singles, 'Any to Come' (ATC) or 'if cash' wagers, specialty wagers,
   forecasts,    fixed,  variable,  guaranteed,    parimutuel  wagering,    fixed-odds   wagering,

    accumulator or parlay wagering, fixed odds, a pool, progressive, fixed pool, variable pool or
    guaranteed pool.
             34. The wagering system of claim 27, wherein upon acceptance of the buy-out offer
    or partial buy-out offer by a player, the system further comprises at least one or more of:
 5           transferring an entitlement of the player to at least one third party or another player, so
    that the at least one third party or another player becomes eligible to win the at least one
    jackpot or portion thereof;
             transferring ownership or partial ownership of the player, in at least a portion of the
    player's wager, to at least one third party or another player, so that the at least one third
 0  party or another player obtains ownership or partial ownership and becomes eligible to win
    the at least one jackpot or portion thereof;
             relinquishing rights of the player, in at least a portion of the player's wager
    corresponding to the buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer, before the multi-outcome
    wagering event has been completed; and
 5            initiating and causing display of at least a portion of the player's wager
    corresponding to the accepted buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer for at least one of bidding
    and selection by one or more third parties.
             35.   The wagering system of claim 27, further comprising a cash out option, the
    system controller further configured to:
 10          receive a selection of the cash out option from any of the one or more players that
    desire to fully or partially end the wager, wherein the selection of the cash out option from
    any of the one or more players is provided via one or more of the one or more wagering input
    devices, a hand held device, a mobile device, a wireless device, a computing system, a smart
    phone, a telephone, a tablet computer, text messaging, a PDA, an interactive television,
25  email, Internet browser or a cashier;
             wherein any of the one or more players selecting the cash out option to fully end the
    wager no longer participates in the multi-outcome wagering event, and any of the one or
    more players selecting the cash out option to partially end the wager continues to participate
    in the multi-outcome wagering event; and
30           issue to the one or more players that selected the cash out option one or more of cash,
    tickets or credit slips redeemable by the player, funding of a player's electronically
    recordable identification card or online account, or an award.

             36. The wagering system of claim 27, wherein initiate and cause display of at least
    one of a buy-out offer and a partial buy-out offer comprises initiate and cause display of a
    partial buy-out offer.
             37. The wagering system of claim 27, wherein initiate and cause display of at least
 5  one of a buy-out offer and a partial buy-out offer comprises initiate and cause display of a
    buy-out offer.
             38. The wagering system of claim 27, wherein the buy-out offer comprises a cash in
    offer or a cash out offer, and wherein the partial buy-out offer comprises a partial cash in
    offer or a partial cash out offer.
 0           39. The wagering system of claim 27, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out
    offer comprises a full cash out on a single.
             40. The wagering system of claim 27, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out
    offer comprises a partial cash out on a single.
             41. The wagering system of claim 27, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out
 5  offer comprises a full cash out on a multiple, accumulator, parlay or pool.
              42. The wagering system of claim 27, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out
    offer comprises a partial cash out on a multiple, accumulator, parlay or pool.
             43. The method of claim 1 wherein the wagering event and wager comprises one or
    more of fixed odds single wagers, multiple wagers, full cover wagers, full cover wagers with
 '0 singles, 'Any to Come' (ATC) or 'if cash' wagers, specialty wagers, forecasts, fixed, variable,
    guaranteed, parimutuel wagering, fixed-odds wagering, accumulator or parlay wagering,
    fixed odds, a pool, progressive, fixed pool, variable pool or guaranteed pool.
             44. The method of claim 1, wherein upon acceptance of the buy-out offer or partial
    buy-out offer by a player, the method further comprises at least one or more of:
25           transferring an entitlement of the player to at least one third party or another player, so
    that the at least one third party or another player becomes eligible to win the at least one
    jackpot or portion thereof;
             transferring ownership or partial ownership of the player, in at least a portion of the
    player's wager, to at least one third party or another player, so that the at least one third
30  party or another player obtains ownership or partial ownership and becomes eligible to win
    the at least one jackpot or portion thereof;
             relinquishing rights of the player, in at least a portion of the player's wager
    corresponding to the buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer, before the multi-outcome
    wagering event has been completed; and
                                                     A7

             initiating and causing display of at least a portion of the player's wager
    corresponding to the accepted buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer for at least one of bidding
    and selection by one or more third parties.
            45.     The method of claim 1, further comprising a cash out option, the system
 5  controller further configured to:
            receive a selection of the cash out option from any of the one or more players that
    desire to fully or partially end the wager, wherein the selection of the cash out option from
    any of the one or more players is provided via one or more of the one or more wagering input
    devices, a hand held device, a mobile device, a wireless device, a computing system, a smart
 0  phone, a telephone, a tablet computer, text messaging, a PDA, an interactive television,
    email, Internet browser or a cashier;
            wherein any of the one or more players selecting the cash out option to fully end the
    wager no longer participates in the multi-outcome wagering event, and any of the one or
    more players selecting the cash out option to partially end the wager continues to participate
 5  in the multi-outcome wagering event; and
            issue to the one or more players that selected the cash out option one or more of cash,
    tickets or credit slips redeemable by the player, funding of a player's electronically
    recordable identification card or online account, or an award.
            46. The method of claim 1, wherein initiate and cause display of at least one of a buy
 '0 out offer and a partial buy-out offer comprises initiate and cause display of a partial buy-out
    offer.
            47. The method of claim 1, wherein initiate and cause display of at least one of a buy
    out offer and a partial buy-out offer comprises initiate and cause display of a buy-out offer.
            48. The method of claim 1, wherein the buy-out offer comprises a cash in offer or a
25  cash out offer, and wherein the partial buy-out offer comprises a partial cash in offer or a
    partial cash out offer.
            49. The method of claim 1, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out offer
    comprises a full cash out on a single.
            50. The method of claim 1, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out offer
30  comprises a partial cash out on a single.
            51. The method of claim 1, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out offer
    comprises a full cash out on a multiple, accumulator, parlay or pool.
             52. The method of claim 1, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out offer
    comprises a partial cash out on a multiple, accumulator, parlay or pool.
                                                   A

            53. A wagering system including one or more wagering input devices for allowing the
    placement of a wager on one or more wagering events, the wagering system comprising:
            a system controller configured to communicate with the one or more wagering input
    devices, said system controller configured to:
 5                  initiate the one or more wagering events for one or more players;
                    receive a wager via the one or more wagering input devices in response to
    input from a player desiring to participate in the one or more wagering events;
                    generate a record reflecting the wager associated with the player at the system
    controller;
 0                  receive input of an outcome of the one or more wagering events;
                    generate and cause display via the one or more wagering input devices the
    outcome of the one or more wagering events to a player;
                    identify one or more players eligible to win the one or more wagering events
    based on the wager from among players participating in the one or more wagering events;
 5                  determine any winners of the one or more wagering events based on the
    outcome of one or more wagering events in comparison against the record reflecting the
    wager from among players participating in the one or more wagering events;
                    initiate and cause display of at least one of a buy-out offer and a partial buy
    out offer via the one or more wagering input devices to any number of the one or more
 '0 players eligible to win before the one or more wagering events have been completed, wherein
    one or more additional buy-out offers or partial buy-out offers may be initiated and displayed
    via the one or more wagering input devices to any number of the one or more players that
    have not accepted a buy-out offer or a partial buy-out offer;
                    receive any acceptances of the at least one of the buy-out offer and partial buy
25  out offer via the one or more wagering input devices in response to input from a particular
    number of the one or more players that have accepted the buy-out offer or partial buy-out
    offer; and
                     issue a credit, tokens, currency or an award to the one or more players
     accepting the buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer.
30          54.     The wagering system of claim 53, wherein the one or more players are eligible
    to win an award and the system controller is further configured to determine if any of the one
    or more players have won the award.
            55.     The wagering system of claim 53, wherein the award comprises one or more
    selected from the group consisting of monetary awards, nonmonetary awards, a prize, a

    payment, a designated currency, virtual currency, tokens, credits, coupons, services, personal
    property, real property, virtual property, assets, investments, negotiable instruments,
    commodities, food, lodging, entertainment, alleviation of obligations, gaming opportunities
    and wager enhancement.
 5           56.      The wagering system of claim 53, wherein the wagering event comprises at
    least one of an entire wagering event, a partial wagering event, a divisible component of a
    wagering      event,  multiple   independent    wagering     events    occurring   sequentially   or
    concurrently, and a compilation of related wagering events, wherein the wagering event
    comprises one or more selected from the group consisting of sporting events, eSports, e
 0  sports, competitive gaming, electronic sports, lotteries, real games, virtual games, live events,
    pre-recorded events, online events, broadcast events, slot machines, card games, keno, video
    games and racing.
             57.      The wagering system of claim 53 wherein the wagering event and wager
    comprises one or more of fixed odds single wagers, multiple wagers, full cover wagers, full
 5  cover wagers with singles, 'Any to Come' (ATC) or 'if cash' wagers, specialty wagers,
    forecasts,     fixed, variable,   guaranteed,   parimutuel     wagering,    fixed-odds    wagering,
    accumulator or parlay wagering, fixed odds, a pool, progressive, fixed pool, variable pool or
    guaranteed pool.
             58.     The wagering system of claim 53, wherein upon acceptance of the buy-out offer
 '0 or partial buy-out offer by a player, the system further comprises at least one or more of:
             transferring an entitlement of the player to at least one third party or another player, so
    that the at least one third party or another player becomes eligible to win the at least one
    jackpot or portion thereof;
             transferring ownership or partial ownership of the player, in at least a portion of the
25  player's wager, to at least one third party or another player, so that the at least one third
    party or another player obtains ownership or partial ownership and becomes eligible to win
    the at least one jackpot or portion thereof;
             relinquishing rights of the player, in at least a portion of the player's wager
    corresponding to the buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer, before the wagering event has
30  been completed; and
              initiating and causing display of at least a portion of the player's wager
    corresponding to the accepted buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer for at least one of bidding
    and selection by one or more third parties.

            59.   The wagering system of claim 53, further comprising a cash out option, the
    system controller further configured to:
            receive a selection of the cash out option from any of the one or more players that
    desire to fully or partially end the wager, wherein the selection of the cash out option from
 5  any of the one or more players is provided via one or more of the one or more wagering input
    devices, a hand held device, a mobile device, a wireless device, a computing system, a smart
    phone, a telephone, a tablet computer, text messaging, a PDA, an interactive television,
    email, Internet browser or a cashier;
            wherein any of the one or more players selecting the cash out option to fully end the
 0  wager no longer participates in the one or more wagering events, and any of the one or more
    players selecting the cash out option to partially end the wager continues to participate in the
    one or more wagering events; and
            issue to the one or more players that selected the cash out option one or more of cash,
    tickets or credit slips redeemable by the player, funding of a player's electronically
 5  recordable identification card or online account, or an award.
            60. The wagering system of claim 53, wherein initiate and cause display of at least
    one of a buy-out offer and a partial buy-out offer comprises initiate and cause display of a
    partial buy-out offer.
            61.  The wagering system of claim 53, wherein initiate and cause display of at least
 '0 one of a buy-out offer and a partial buy-out offer comprises initiate and cause display of a
    buy-out offer.
            62. The wagering system of claim 53, wherein the buy-out offer comprises a cash in
    offer or a cash out offer, and wherein the partial buy-out offer comprises a partial cash in
    offer or a partial cash out offer.
25          63. The wagering system of claim 53, wherein the buy-out offer comprises a cash in
    offer or a cash out offer, and wherein the partial buy-out offer comprises a partial cash in
    offer or a partial cash out offer.
            64. The wagering system of claim 53, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out
    offer comprises a full cash out on a single.
30          65. The wagering system of claim 53, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out
    offer comprises a partial cash out on a single.
            66. The wagering system of claim 53, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out
    offer comprises a full cash out on a multiple, accumulator, parlay or pool.
                                                    C1

            67. The wagering system of claim 53, wherein the buy-out offer and partial buy-out
  offer comprises a partial cash out on a multiple, accumulator, parlay or pool.
           68. The wagering system of claim 53, wherein the amount of the buy-out offer or
  partial buy-out offer is variable and based on at least one of a calculated probability, an
5 originator of the buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer, a negotiation, the one or more players
  or a third party.
           69. The wagering system of claim 1, wherein the amount of the buy-out offer or
  partial buy-out offer is variable and based on at least one of a calculated probability, an
  originator of the buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer, a negotiation, the one or more players
0 or a third party.
           70. The wagering system of claim 27, wherein the amount of the buy-out offer or
  partial buy-out offer is variable and based on at least one of a calculated probability, an
  originator of the buy-out offer or partial buy-out offer, a negotiation, the one or more players
  or a third party.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
