                               ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
           Cell culture media, concentrated media and feeds, methods of manufacturing cell
  culture media and feeds, and methods of culturing cells are provided. One or more small
5 peptides, including dipeptides are added to the cell culture media to provide improved
  stability and improved conditions for culturing cells.

            CELL CULTURE MEDIUM COMPRISING SMALL PEPTIDES
   BACKGROUND
             Cell culture media provide the nutrients necessary to maintain and grow cells
 5 in a controlled, artificial and in vitro environment. Nutrient formulations, pH, and
   osmolality of cell culture media vary in accordance with parameters such as cell type,
   cell density, and the culture system employed.
             Media formulations have been used to cultivate a number of cell types
   including animal, plant and bacterial cells. Cultivated cells have many uses including
10 the study of physiological processes and the production of useful biological substances.
   Examples of such useful products include polypeptides, such as monoclonal antibodies,
   hormones, growth factors, enzymes, and other polypeptides of interest. Such products
   have many commercial and therapeutic applications and, with the advent of
   recombinant DNA technology, cells can be engineered to produce large quantities of
15 these products. Cultured cells are also routinely used for the isolation, identification
   and growth of viruses which can be used as vectors and/or vaccines. Thus, the ability to
   cultivate cells in vitro is not only important for the study of cell physiology, but is also
   necessary for the production of useful substances which may not otherwise be obtained
   by cost-effective means.
20           Cell culture media formulations have been well documented in the literature
   and a number of media are commercially available. In early cell culture work, media
   formulations were based upon the chemical composition and physicochemical
   properties (e.g., osmolality, pH, etc.) of blood and were referred to as "physiological
   solutions" Ringer, S., J. Physiol. 3:380-393 (1980); Waymouth, C., In: Cells and
25 Tissues in Culture, Vol. 1, Academic Press, London, pp. 99-142 (1965); Waymouth, C.,
   In Vitro 6:109-127 (1970). However, cells in different tissues of the mammalian body
   are exposed to different microenvironments with respect to oxygen/carbon dioxide
   partial pressure and concentrations of nutrients, vitamins, and trace elements,
   accordingly, successful in vitro culture of different cell types will often require the use
30 of different media formulations. Typical components of cell culture media include
   amino acids, organic and inorganic salts, vitamins, minerals, trace metals, sugars, lipids,
   and nucleic acids, the types and amounts of which may vary depending upon the
   particular requirements of a given cell or tissue type.
                                              -1-

              Glutamine is routinely used in cell culture media because it has been shown to
   be a major energy source for cultured cells. In 1959, Eagle showed that the amount of
   glutamine necessary for optimal growth of mammalian cell cultures is 3 to 10 times
   greater than the amount of other amino acids. Eagle et al., Science 130:432-37 (1959).
 5 However, glutamine is unstable in aqueous solution and at elevated temperatures,
   forming pyroglutamate and ammonia, which can be toxic to certain cells. Roth et al., In
   Vitro Cellular & Developmental Biology 24(7):696-98 (1988). Therefore, glutamine is
   typically added to cell culture medium immediately before use.
             Alternatively, to avoid the formation of toxic substances like pyroglutamate
10 and ammonia, glutamine-containing dipeptides, such as alanyl-glutamine or glycyl
   glutamine, can be used in cell culture media instead of glutamine Roth et al., In Vitro
   Cellular & Developmental Biology 24(7):696-98 (1988). Glutamate has also been used
   instead of glutamine to reduce the accumulation of ammonia in the cell culture medium
   See Cell Culture Technology for Pharmaceutical and Cell-Based Therapies, 52, Sadettin
15 Ozturk and Wei-Shou Hu eds., Taylor and Francis Group (2006).
              Others have proposed acylating a dipeptide, such as alanyl glutamine, to make
   the dipeptide more stable under heat sterilization conditions. For example, U.S. Patent
   No. 5,534,538 describes N-acyl dipeptides for use in enteral or parenteral nutrition
   where the N-acyl dipeptides are more stable under heat sterilization conditions than
20 corresponding non-acylated dipeptides and where the N-acyl group advantageously
   delays splitting of the dipeptide until it reaches the kidneys. U.S. Patent No. 5,534,538
   also found that N-acyl alanyl glutamine was a suitable glutamine source for cell culture
   media, similar to the corresponding non-acylated dipeptide (alanyl glutamine), which
   was a known component of cell culture medium (see Roth et al. above). U.S. Patent
25 No. 5,534,538 further described the N-acyl dipeptides as advantageous over free
   dipeptides, at least in part, because of the increased stability of N-acyl dipetides under
   heat sterilization conditions. Thus, U.S. Patent No. 5,534,538 actually teaches away
   from using dipeptides where the N-terminal amino acid has a free amino group.
             Applicants have found that certain amino acids, like tyrosine, have limited
30 solubility at the desired concentration for maximal cell growth or protein production.
   Applicants have also found that other amino acids, like cysteine, are unstable and prone
   to precipitation over time in aqueous cell culture medium, particularly in concentrated
   cell culture medium. Specifically, because cysteine has a thiol group, it is susceptible to
   an oxidation reaction in which two cysteine residues are linked together by a disulfide
                                               -2-

    bond to form cystine (SCH 2 CH(NH 2 )CO 2 H) 2 . Cystine has low solubility in water and
    readily precipitates out of solution. As a result, it has not been possible to produce a
    shelf-stable, liquid cell culture medium containing concentrations of tyrosine and
    cysteine required for maximal cell growth and/or protein production.
  5           Applicants have also tried to address this problem by using less than the
    desired concentration of tyrosine or cysteine in the aqueous cell culture medium. In so
    doing, it is possible to achieve an acceptable aqueous shelf life. However, this is
    accomplished at the expense of optimal cell growth, protein production or viral
    production. In other words, cell culture medium with lower concentrations of tyrosine
10  and cysteine supports reduced cell growth and/or protein production as compared to cell
    culture medium with the optimal concentrations of tyrosine and cysteine.
              Thus, there exists a current need for a medium, concentrated medium or
    concentrated feed supplement containing amounts of tyrosine and cysteine sufficient to
    support maximal cell growth and/or protein or viral production while avoiding the
15  problems caused by the limited solubility of tyrosine or the limited stability of cysteine,
    including the tendency of cysteine to precipitate out of solution over time. In addition,
    there exists a need for such a feed supplement to be in a concentrated form, so that its
    addition would not greatly add volume to the final cell culture system. There also exists
    a need that when such nutrient feeds are added, the pH and osmolality of the resulting
20  system be automatically balanced, and that the medium or concentrated feed be
    available in a liquid or a dry format. Lastly, there exists a need for a single-regimen,
    concentrated feed supplement comprising amounts of cysteine and tyrosine sufficient to
    support maximal cell growth and/or protein production, and/or expressed protein of
    high quality.
25
               SUMMARY
               The compositions of the invention are directed, in part, to cell culture media,
    concentrated media, or concentrated feed supplements comprising concentrations of
    cysteine and tyrosine that support maximal cell growth and/or protein, or viral
30  production while avoiding the problems caused by their limited solubility and stability.
    In one aspect, the media, concentrated feed supplements, or concentrated media may be
    serum-free compositions. In one aspect, the compositions may comprise human serum
    components, like human serum albumin. In a further aspect, the human serum albumin
    may be recombinant, (r- human serum albumin), derived from recombinant sources, in
                                              -3-

   some preferred cases, form plant sources like rice, corn, wheat, potato, or from fungal
   sources, or from yeast or other equivalent microorganisms well-known to be used in the
   art (xeno-free culture). In another aspect, the media, concentrated feed supplements, or
   concentrated media may be protein-free compositions. In yet another aspect, the media,
 5 concentrated feed supplements, or concentrated media may be protein-hydrolysate free
   compositions, and further, may be free of fractions of protein-hydrolysates. In a certain
   aspect, the media, concentrated feed supplements, or concentrated media may be serum
   free, protein-free, and protein hydrolysate-free compositions. In a preferred aspect,
   these compositions may comprise components that are chemically-defined, serum-free,
10 protein-free and free of any protein hydrolysates, or fractions thereof. In certain
   embodiments, the cell culture medium, concentrated medium or cell culture feed
   supplement having one or more small peptides, or one or more dipeptides, further does
   not contain one or more of the following: lipids, hydrolysates or a fraction thereof, or
   growth factors.
15            The invention is also directed, in part, to methods for analyzing the
   compositions described above for the presence or absence of a short peptide comprising
   cysteine or tyrosine. The analysis of the media is performed by any known method in
   the art, for instance, by mass spectrometry (LCMS), capillary electrophoresis or HPLC.
              In particular, the present disclosure is directed to a cell culture medium, a
20 concentrated feed, or a cell culture supplement comprising one or more small peptides
   having two to six amino acids, as defined later in the application. Therefore, the present
   disclosure provides a cell culture medium, a concentrated feed, or a cell culture
   supplement, wherein the medium, feed or supplement comprises one or more small
   peptides selected from Xip5-tyrosine, Xip5-cysteine, tyrosine- Xi-5, and cysteine- Xi-5, or
25 any small peptide where cysteine or tyrosine is anywhere within the short peptide of 1
   to 6 amino acids (for e.g., X-cysteine- Xi4, X-tyrosine- Xi4, etc.) or a salt thereof,
   wherein X is any amino acid, and wherein the N-terminal amino acid of the short
   peptide has a free amino group. In one embodiment, X is alanine or glycine. In another
   embodiment X is serine, valine, proline, aspartic acid, or glutamic acid. In a particular
30 embodiment, the present disclosure provides a cell culture medium, a concentrated feed,
   or a cell culture supplement, wherein the medium, feed or supplement comprises one or
   more dipeptides selected from X-tyrosine, X-cysteine, tyrosine-X, and cysteine-X, or a
   salt thereof, wherein X is any amino acid, and wherein the N-terminal amino acid of the
   dipeptide has a free amino group. In one embodiment, X is alanine or glycine. In
                                               -4-

   another embodiment X is serine, valine, proline, aspartic acid, or glutamic acid. In yet
   another embodiment, the one or more dipeptides are alanyl tyrosine and/or alanyl
   cysteine. The cell culture medium, concentrated feed, or cell culture supplement may
   be a liquid solution or a dry powder, such as a dry powder media (DPM) or an
 5 agglomerated powder (AGTTM). In one embodiment, the liquid solution is stored at 2
   8C and remains free of precipitate for over 12 months.
              In one embodiment of the invention, the concentration of tyrosine (as
   comprised within the small peptide), in solution, in a medium, feed or supplement, will
   be greater than the concentration of tyrosine that would remain soluble in an identical
10 solution, if the tyrosine were present as a monomer (that is, tyrosine in a small
   peptide may make the solution "supersaturated for tyrosine"). In one embodiment, the
   solution will have between about 1 and at least about 100 times, or about 1 and at least
   about 25 times, the soluble tyrosine concentration as would be capable with the
   monomer. For example, the concentration of small peptides or dipeptides in some cell
15 culture media, concentrated feeds or supplements may be about 1 to at least about 5
   times, about 1 to at least about 10 times, about 1 to at least about 15 times, about 1 to at
   least about 20 times, about 1 to at least about 30 times, about 1 to at least about 40
   times, about 1 to at least about 50 times, about 1 to at least about 60 times, about 1 to at
   least about 70 times, about 1 to at least about 80 times, about 1 to at least about 90
20 times, about 1 to at least about 100 times, about 10 to at least about 20 times, about 10
   to at least about 30 times, about 10 to at least about 40 times, about 10 to at least about
   50 times, about 10 to at least about 60 times, about 10 to at least about 70 times, and so
   on, the soluble tyrosine concentration as would be capable with the monomer.
              In one embodiment of the invention, the concentration of cysteine (as
25 comprised within the small peptide), in solution, in a medium, feed or supplement, will
   be greater in the solution than the concentration of cysteine that would remain soluble
   in an identical solution if the cysteine were present as a monomer (that is, cysteine in a
   small peptide may make the solution "supersaturated for cysteine"). In one
   embodiment, the solubility of cysteine (or lack thereof) would include, for example,
30 loss of solubility caused by conversion of cysteine to cystine. In one embodiment, the
   solution will comprise at least, between about 1 and about 25 times, the soluble cysteine
   concentration capable with the monomer. For example, the concentration of small
   peptides or dipeptides in some cell culture media, concentrated feeds or supplements
   may be at about 1 to at least about 5 times, about 1 to at least about 10 times, about 1 to
                                              -5-

   at least about 15 times, about 1 to at least about 20 times, about 1 to at least about 30
   times, about 1 to at least about 40 times, about 1 to at least about 50 times, about 1 to at
   least about 60 times, about 1 to at least about 70 times, about 1 to at least about 80
   times, about 1 to at least about 90 times, about 1 to at least about 100 times, about 1 to
 5 at least about 110 times, about 10 to at least about 20 times, about 10 to at least about
   30 times, about 10 to at least about 40 times, about 10 to at least about 50 times, about
   10 to at least about 60 times, about 10 to at least about 70 times, about 10 to at least
   about 80 times, about 10 to at least about 90 times, about 10 to at least about 100 times,
   about 10 to at least about 110 times, and so on, the soluble cysteine concentration as
10 would be capable with the monomer. In one embodiment, the solution is supersaturated
   for both tyrosine and cysteine.
             In one embodiment, the solution will be supersaturated for both tyrosine and
   cysteine in, for example, the ranges described above for each of tyrosine or cysteine
   alone.
15           In one embodiment, the addition of the concentrated feeds, media or
   supplements described above could reduce the volume of supplementation to a culture
   system, for e.g., a fed-batch culture, which may already be in progress. The culture may
   be in progress for a few hours to a few days. In another embodiment, increasing the
   solubility of the cysteine and tyrosine comprised within small peptides allows for the
20 design of single part concentrated feeds, which may also be pH neutral, which is part of
   the invention. The invention is directed in part to preparation of single regimen
   concentrated feeds, concentrated media and concentrated supplements comprising
   cysteine and tyrosine comprised within a small peptide, to increase their solubility and
   stability within the composition.
25            The cell culture medium, concentrated feed or cell culture supplement having
   one or more small peptides, or one or more dipeptides optionally comprises one or more
   of the following: a carbohydrate, a vitamin, a salt, an inorganic element, a buffering
   agent, and an amino acid, or a salt thereof In one embodiment the carbohydrate is a
   hexose sugar. Alternately, pentose, hexose, or their derivatives or other equivalents
30 may be used. In some instances, oligosaccharides or their derivatives may be used; or,
   the hexose may be selected from the group consisting of glucose, galactose, fructose
   and maltose. In a particular embodiment, the carbohydrate is glucose.
             In one embodiment, the amino acid, or salt thereof, is one or more of arginine,
   asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine, histidine, isoleucine,
                                              -6-

   leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, proline, serine, threonine, tryptophan,
   tyrosine, and valine.
               In one embodiment, the cell culture medium, concentrated feed or cell culture
   supplement comprises a 1) first dipeptide, X-tyrosine, or a salt thereof, and a second
 5 dipeptide, X-cysteine, or a salt thereof, wherein X is alanine or glycine and wherein the
   alanine or glycine has a free amino group, 2) a carbohydrate, such as glucose, and 3) an
   amino acid, or a salt thereof. The amino acid, or a salt thereof, may comprise one or
   more of arginine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, histidine,
   isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, proline, serine, threonine,
10 tryptophan, tyrosine, and valine.
                In one embodiment, the cell culture medium, concentrated feed or cell
   culture supplement has one or more small peptides, or one or more dipeptides, suitable
   for culturing a bacterial cell, a yeast cell, a plant cell, or an animal cell, such as an insect
   cell (e.g., Drosophilacells, Spodoptera cells or Trichoplusiacells), a nematode cell
15 (e.g., C. elegans cells) or a mammalian cell (e.g., CHO cells, COS cells, VERO cells,
   BHK cells, AE-1 cells, SP2/0 cells, L5.1 cells, PerC6, hybridoma cells, HEK 293,
   including human cells).
               In certain embodiments, the cell culture medium having one or more small
   peptides or one or more dipeptides is a IX formulation. In other embodiment, the cell
20 culture medium is concentrated as a 2X or greater formulation, as discussed elsewhere
   in this application. In certain embodiments, the one or more small peptides or
   dipeptides, such as X-tyrosine, X-cysteine, tyrosine-X, or cysteine-X, are present in the
   cell culture medium at a concentration of about 1 g/L to about 16 g/L, about 1 g/L to
   about 10 g/L, about 1 g/L to about 5 g/L, about 2.5 g/L to about 16 g/L, about 2.5 g/L to
25 about 10 g/L, about 2.5 g/L to about 5 g/L, or about 2.5 g/L to about 8.5 g/L.
               In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method of culturing a cell,
   comprising contacting the cell with the small peptide- or dipeptide-containing cell
   culture medium described herein under conditions supporting the cultivation of the cell.
   Any cell may be cultured according to the present methods, particularly bacterial cells,
30 yeast cells, plant cells or animal cells. In one embodiment, the animal cell for culturing
   according to the present methods is an insect cell (e.g., Drosophila cells, Spodoptera
   cells or Trichoplusiacells), a nematode cell (e.g., C. elegans cells) or a mammalian cell
   (e.g., CHO cells, COS cells, VERO cells, BHK cells, AE-1 cells, SP2/0 cells, L5.1
   cells, PerC6, hybridoma cells, HEK 293 or other human cells).
                                               -7-

              In another embodiment, the method of culturing a cell comprises contacting
   the cell with a basal cell culture medium under conditions supporting the cultivation of
   the cell and supplementing the basal cell culture medium with a cell culture medium, a
   cell culture supplement, or a cell culture feed, having one or more small peptides or one
 5 or more dipeptides, as described herein. In one embodiment, the one or more dipeptides
   selected from X-tyrosine, X-cysteine, tyrosine-X, or cysteine-X, or a salt thereof,
   wherein X is selected from alanine, glycine, serine, valine, proline, aspartic acid, or
   glutamic acid and wherein the N-terminal amino acid of the one or dipeptides has a free
   amino group. In another embodiment, the one or more dipeptides are alanyl tyrosine
10 and/or alanyl cysteine.
              In one embodiment, the basal cell culture medium is supplemented with a
   solution, comprising cysteine and tyrosine in a small peptide, on more than one day,
   wherein the solution may be a concentrated medium, or a concentrated feed
   supplement. In certain embodiments, applicants may refer to the use of media, feed,
15 supplements, or other solutions which comprise small peptides (including, for example,
   solutions comprising dipeptides which comprise at least one tyrosine or cysteine
   residue). Indeed, one embodiment of applicants' invention is the use of such solutions
   in the culturing of cells. In that respect, one of skill in the art will appreciate that in
   certain recitations herein, Applicants may refer to a specific supplement, media(um),
20 feed or solution merely as an example of an embodiment that could equally apply to
   any of the types of solutions described herein. For example, one of skill in the art
   would understand that a recitation of a "supplement" with a specific amino acid
   composition can equally describe a "feed" with a like composition and vice versa.
             The basal cell culture medium, concentrated medium, concentrated feed or
25 supplement may comprise a small peptide- or dipeptide-containing medium or feed on
   day 0, day 1, day 2, day 3, day 4 or 5 days after starting the cell culture and is
   supplemented daily thereafter through day 13 or 14 or until the viability of the culture
   drops below a pre-determined level (eg. 50%). The          basal cell culture medium is
   optionally supplemented with the small peptide- or dipeptide-containing cell culture
30 medium at about 2% of the total volume of the basal cell culture medium. In one
   embodiment, the cell produces a protein, a peptide, a small RNA (for e.g., miRNA,
   siRNA, etc). By protein is meant, a recombinant protein or a naturally occurring
   protein. By protein, whether recombinant or natural, is also meant a full-length protein
   or a part thereof (like a domain, a motif, a polypeptide chain or polypeptide fragment).
                                              -8-

   By protein, whether recombinant or natural, is also meant an intracellular protein, an
   extracellular protein, a secreted protein, hormone, cytokine, receptor, extracellular
   matrix protein, an immunoglobulin or a part of the immunoglobulin, or a fragment
   thereof. Preferably, the protein yield may be higher with the cell culture medium, feed
 5 or supplement comprising the short peptides, or dipeptides of the invention. In a
   specific aspect, for instance, the protein yield for an immunoglobulin may be greater
   than 3000 mg/L of immunoglobulin, after at least 14 days in culture. In another
   embodiment, the cell can produce a virus or a VLP (virus like particle). In yet another
   embodiment, the cell may produce a desired cell product like a vitamin, a metabolite, a
10 glycoprotein, a carbohydrate, a lipid, or a lipoprotein. In another embodiment, the cell
   itself is grown to be harvested. The media and feed supplement compositions of the
   invention comprise concentrations of cysteine and tyrosine that support maximal cell
   growth for viral or VLP production, or maximal vitamin production, or glycoprotein, or
   vaccine production, etc., while avoiding the problems caused by their limited solubility.
15            Any cell may be cultured according to the present methods, for instance
   bacterial cells, yeast cells, plant cells, insect cells or animal cells, including mammalian
   cells. In one embodiment, the animal cell for culturing according to the present
   methods is an insect cell (e.g., Drosophilacells, Spodoptera cells or Trichoplusiacells),
   a nematode cell (e.g., C. elegans cells) or a mammalian cell (e.g., CHO cells, COS
20 cells, VERO cells, BHK cells, AE-1 cells, SP2/0 cells, L5.1 cells, PerC6, hybridoma
   cells, or other human cells). In one embodiment, the cell is a CHO cell.
              Another aspect provides a method of preparing a cell culture medium,
   comprising combining one or more small peptides or dipeptides, as described herein,
   with a carbohydrate, such as glucose, and at least one amino acid or salt thereof, such as
25 arginine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, histidine, isoleucine, lysine,
   methionine, phenylalanine, proline, hydroxyproline, serine, threonine, tryptophan,
   tyrosine, glutamine, and valine. In one embodiment, the one or more dipeptides are
   selected from X-tyrosine, X-cysteine, tyrosine-X, or cysteine-X, or a salt thereof,
   wherein X is selected from alanine, glycine, serine, valine, proline, aspartic acid, or glutamic
30 acid and wherein the N-terminal amino acid of the one or dipeptides has a free amino
   group. In another embodiment, the one or more dipeptides are alanyl tyrosine and/or
   alanyl cysteine.
              In other embodiments, the cell culture medium prepared according to this
   method is concentrated as a 2X or greater formulation, as discussed elsewhere in this
                                                -9-

   application. In certain embodiments, the one or more small peptides or dipeptides, such
   as alanyl tyrosine and/or alanyl cysteine, are present in the cell culture medium
   prepared according to this method.
              For example, the concentration of small peptides or dipeptides in some cell
 5 culture media or the concentrated media or feeds may be about 0.5 g/L to about 30 g/L,
   about 0.5 g/L to about 25 g/L, about 0.5 g/L to about 20 g/L, about 0.5 g/L to about 16
   g/L, about 0.5 g/L to about 10 g/L, about 0.5 g/L to about 5 g/L, about 0.5 g/L to about
   4 g/L, about 1 g/L to about 30 g/L, about 1 g/L to about 20 g/L, about 1 g/L to about 16
   g/L, about 1 g/L to about 10 g/L, about 1 g/L to about 5 g/L, about 2.5 g/L to about 30
10 g/L, about 2.5 g/L to about 20 g/L, about 2.5 g/L to about 16 g/L, about 2.5 g/L to
   about 10 g/L, about 2.5 g/L to about 5 g/L, or about 2.5 g/L to about 4.5 g/L, about 5
   g/L to about 30 g/L, about 5 g/L to about 25 g/L, about 5 g/L to about 20 g/L, about 5
   g/L to about 16 g/L, about 5 g/L to about 10 g/L, about 5 g/L to about 5 g/L, about 5
   g/L to about 4 g/L, and so on.
15            Another aspect provides a composition comprising the small peptide- or
   dipeptide-containing cell culture medium described herein and at least one cell, as
   described above. In one embodiment, the at least one cell is a CHO cell.
              Yet another aspect is directed to kits for use in the cultivation of a cell. The
   kit may comprise one or more containers containing the small peptide- or dipeptide
20 containing cell culture medium described herein. The kit optionally comprises at least
   one additional component selected from at least one growth factor, at least one animal
   tissue extract, at least one animal organ extract, at least one animal gland extract, at
   least one enzyme, at least one protein, at least one vitamin, at least one cytokine, at least
   one lipid, at least one trace element, at least one extracellular matrix component, at least
25 one buffer, at least one antibiotic, and at least one viral inhibitor. The kit may also
   comprise one or more cells or cell types.
              Another aspect is directed to methods of producing a virus or a VLP using the
   small peptide- or dipeptide-containing cell culture media described herein. Specifically,
   the method comprises (a) contacting a cell (e.g., a mammalian cell) with a virus under
30 conditions suitable to promote the infection of the cell by the virus; and (b) cultivating
   the cell in the culture media described herein under conditions suitable to promote the
   production of virus by the cell. In one embodiment, the cell that produces the virus or
   VLP is a mammalian cell, such as a CHO cell, or an insect cell, or a plant cell, or a
                                              -10-

   fungal cell. In another embodiment, a non-mammalian virus or VLP is engineered such
   that it can infect a mammalian host cell, for e.g., a human cell.
              In yet another aspect, the disclosure provides methods of producing a
   polypeptide, such as an immunoglobulin or a fragment thereof, using the small peptide
 5 or dipeptide-containing cell culture media described herein. Specifically, the method
   comprises cultivating a cell that has been genetically engineered to produce a
   polypeptide in the dipeptide-containing culture media under conditions suitable for
   expression of the polypeptide by the cell. In one embodiment, the cell is a mammalian
   cell, such as a CHO cell.
10            Therefore, one aspect of the invention is directed to a cell culture medium,
   concentrated feed, or concentrated feed supplement comprising at least one small
   peptide, said peptide comprising at least two amino acids, wherein at least one of the
   amino acids is a cysteine or a tyrosine. Another aspect of the invention is directed to a
   cell culture medium, concentrated feed, or concentrated feed supplement described
15 above, wherein at least one of the remaining amino acids of the small peptide are
   selected from the group consisting of alanine, glycine, serine, valine, proline, aspartic
   acid, and glutamic acid. Yet another aspect of the invention, at least one of the
   remaining amino acids of the small peptide is alanine or glycine. Another aspect of the
   invention is directed to a cell culture medium, concentrated feed, or concentrated feed
20 supplement medium described above, wherein at least one of the small peptides is a
   dipeptide selected from the group consisting of X-tyrosine, X-cysteine, tyrosine-X, and
   cysteine-X, or a salt thereof, and wherein X is selected from the group consisting of
   alanine, glycine, serine, valine, proline, aspartic acid, and glutamic acid, and/or, and
   wherein the N-terminal amino acid of the one or small peptides has a free amino group.
25 In one aspect the X is alanine or glycine.
              In some aspects of this invention, the small peptide may be either a dipeptide,
   a tripeptide, a tetrapeptide, a pentapeptide, a hexapeptide, a heptapeptide, an
   octapeptide, a nonapeptide, or a decapeptide; or, the small peptide may be at least about
   two to ten amino acids in length; or in some aspects, the small peptide is at least about
30 ten amino acids in length. In some aspects, the short peptide may comprise two, three,
   four, five or six amino acids.
              In other aspects, the cell culture medium is a liquid solution.
                                              -11-

             In any one of the cell culture medium described above, the cell culture
   medium, concentrated feed, or concentrated feed supplement is a dry powder or a
   granulated dry powder.
             In a further aspect, any one of the cell culture medium described above may
 5 comprise a carbohydrate and an amino acid, or a salt thereof. In one embodiment, the
   carbohydrate is a hexose. In other embodiments, the amino acid, or salt thereof, is any
   one or more of arginine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, histidine,
   isoleucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, proline, hydroxyproline, serine,
   threonine, tryptophan, tyrosine, and valine. In a further embodiment, the media further
10 comprises a vitamin, a salt, a buffering agent, or an inorganic element.
             In some aspects described above, the cell culture medium, concentrated feed,
   or concentrated feed supplement does not contain a lipid, a hydrolysate or a fraction
   thereof, or a growth factor. In other aspects described above, the cell culture medium,
   concentrated feed, or concentrated feed supplement does not contain a protein. Thus in
15 some preferred aspects, the cell culture medium, concentrated feed, or reconstituted
   medium comprising a small peptide may be serum-free, protein-free and/or
   hydrolysate-free.
             In particular aspects, the cell culture medium, concentrated feed, or
   concentrated feed supplement is concentrated as a 2X or greater formulation. In a
20 preferred aspect, the cell culture medium, concentrated feed, or concentrated feed
   supplement described above comprises one or more dipeptides, which may be either
   alanyl tyrosine and/or alanyl cysteine and/or alanyl cystine dimer. In a preferred aspect,
   the one or more dipeptides may be present at a concentration of about 1 g/L to about 16
   g/L; or the one or more dipeptides may be present at a concentration of about 2.5 g/L to
25 about 8.5 g/L. In one aspect, the liquid solution stored at 2-8'C remains free of
   precipitate for over 12 months.
             The present invention is also directed to a method of culturing a cell,
   comprising contacting the cell with a basal cell culture medium under conditions
   supporting the cultivation of the cell and supplementing the basal cell culture medium
30 with a concentrated feed or medium described above. The supplementation may be
   done during a fed-batch culture; or performed in addition to an existing feeding
   schedule; or, the supplementation may be performed continuously as opposed to
   incrementally with bolus additions. In some cases, the basal cell culture medium may be
   supplemented with the concentrated feed or medium on more than one day; or, the
                                              -12-

   supplementation of the basal cell culture medium may be done with a single
   concentrated feed, or with multiple concentrated feeds; or, the supplementation may
   occur either from day 0, day 1, day 2, day 3, day 4 or day 5 after starting the cell
   culture, and is supplemented daily thereafter through day 13 or 14; or, each
 5 supplementation may be about 1-10%, or about 5-20%, of the total starting volume of
   the basal cell culture medium.
             In all aspects of the methods used herein, the cell may be an engineered cell;
   or the cell may be a recombinant cell; or the cell may be a plant cell, or the cell may be
   any one of an animal, a plant, an insect, an avian, yeast, algal or a fish cell. The animal
10 cell may be mammalian, insect, bovine, primate, or a pluripotent stem cell. In one
   aspect, the animal cell may be a mammalian cell; and the mammalian cell may be
   keratinocytes, cervical epithelial cells, bronchial epithelial cells, tracheal epithelial cells,
   kidney epithelial cells and retinal epithelial cells) and established cell lines and their
   strains (e.g., 293 embryonic kidney cells, BHK cells, HeLa cervical epithelial cells and
15 PER-C6 retinal cells, MDBK (NBL-1) cells, 911 cells, CRFK cells, MDCK cells, CHO
   cells, BeWo cells, Chang cells, Detroit 562 cells, HeLa 229 cells, HeLa S3 cells, Hep-2
   cells, KB cells, LS180 cells, LS174T cells, NCI-H-548 cells, RPMI 2650 cells, SW-13
   cells, T24 cells, WI-28 VA13, 2RA cells, WISH cells, BS-C-I cells, LLC-MK 2 cells,
   Clone M-3 cells, 1-10 cells, RAG cells, TCMK-1 cells, Y-1 cells, LLC-PKi cells,
20 PK(15) cells, GHi cells, GH 3 cells, L2 cells, LLC-RC 256 cells, MHiC1 cells, XC cells,
   MDOK cells, VSW cells, and TH-I, BI cells, or derivatives thereof), fibroblast cells
   from any tissue or organ (including but not limited to heart, liver, kidney, colon,
   intestines, esophagus, stomach, neural tissue (brain, spinal cord), lung, vascular tissue
   (artery, vein, capillary), lymphoid tissue (lymph gland, adenoid, tonsil, bone marrow,
25 and blood), spleen, and fibroblast and fibroblast-like cell lines (e.g., CHO cells, TRG-2
   cells, IMR-33 cells, Don cells, GHK-21 cells, citrullinemia cells, Dempsey cells,
   Detroit 551 cells, Detroit 510 cells, Detroit 525 cells, Detroit 529 cells, Detroit 532
   cells, Detroit 539 cells, Detroit 548 cells, Detroit 573 cells, HEL 299 cells, IMR-90
   cells, MRC-5 cells, WI-38 cells, WI-26 cells, MiCli cells, CHO cells, CV-1 cells, COS
30 1 cells, COS-3 cells, COS-7 cells, Vero cells, DBS-FrhL-2 cells, BALB/3T3 cells, F9
   cells, SV-T2 cells, M-MSV-BALB/3T3 cells, K-BALB cells, BLO-1 1 cells, NOR-10
   cells, C3H/IOTI/2 cells, HSDMiC     3 cells, KLN 20 5 cells, McCoy cells, Mouse L cells,
   Strain 2071 (Mouse L) cells, L-M strain (Mouse L) cells, L-MTK- (Mouse L) cells,
   NCTC clones 2472 and 2555, SCC-PSAl cells, Swiss/3T3 cells, Indian muntjac cells,
                                              -13-

   SIRC cells, Cri cells, and Jensen cells, Sp2/0, NSO, NS1 cells or engineered cells
   thereof. In one aspect, the mammalian cell may be a CHO cell.
              In all aspects of the methods used herein, the cells may produce an
   immunoglobulin or a fragment thereof; and the cell may produce greater than 3000
 5 mg/L of immunoglobulin or a fragment thereof
              Alternately, in all aspects of the methods used herein, the cells may produce a
   virus or a virus-like particle (VLP); and the virus may be a recombinant virus. The virus
   may be but is not limited to an adenovirus, lentivirus, baculovirus, sendai virus,
   vaccinia virus, or an engineered viral derivative thereof. In the aspects described herein,
10 the VLP may carry a nucleic acid, or it may carry a RNA.
              In yet another aspect, the present invention is also directed to a method of
   preparing a cell culture medium, concentrated feed or cell culture supplement,
   comprising combining one or more small peptides with a carbohydrate and at least one
   amino acid or salt thereof, wherein each of the one or more small peptides comprises a
15 cysteine or a tyrosine. In one embodiment, the amino acids of the one or more small
   peptides, which are other than cysteine or tyrosine, (or referred to as the remaining
   amino acids) may be selected from the group consisting of alanine, glycine, serine,
   valine, proline, aspartic acid, arginine, glutamine or glutamic acid. In one preferred
   aspect, the amino acids other than cysteine or tyrosine, are alanine or glycine. In another
20 set, the remaining amino acids may also be one or more of arginine, asparagine, aspartic
   acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, histidine, isoleucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine,
   proline, hydroxyproline, serine, threonine, tryptophan, tyrosine, and valine. In another
   preferred aspect of the above method, one or more dipeptides may be selected from X
   tyrosine, X-cysteine, tyrosine-X, or cysteine-X, or a salt thereof, wherein X is selected
25 from alanine, glycine, serine, valine, proline, aspartic acid, arginine or glutamic acid,
   and wherein the N-terminal amino acid of the one or more dipeptide has a free amino
   group. In a most preferred aspect, X is alanine or glycine. In a most preferred aspect,
   the carbohydrate may be glucose. Additionally, the cell culture medium may further
   comprise a vitamin, a salt, a buffering agent, or an inorganic element; or, may not
30 contain a lipid, a hydrolysate or a fraction thereof, or a growth factor; or may not
   contain a protein; or, the cell culture medium may be concentrated as a 2X or greater
   formulation; or, the one or more dipeptides may be alanyl tyrosine and/or alanyl
   cysteine; or, the one or more dipeptides are present in the cell culture medium at a
   concentration of about 1 g/L to about 16 g/L; or preferably, the one or more dipeptides
                                               -14-

            are present at a concentration of about 2.5 g/L to about 8.5 g/L. In most aspects, the cell
            culture medium stored at 2-8'C remains free of precipitate for over 12 months.
                             The present invention is also directed to a method for analyzing a cell culture
            medium, concentrated feed, or reconstituted medium, the method comprising
 5          determining the presence or absence of a short peptide comprising cysteine or tyrosine
            in the medium. In one aspect, the cell culture medium, concentrated feed, or
            reconstituted medium may be serum-free, protein-free, hydrolysate-free, and the
            analyzing may be performed by, but may not be limited to, mass spectrometry (LCMS);
            capillary electrophoresis and HPLC.
10                           The invention is also directed to a composition comprising the cell culture
            medium, concentrated feed, or reconstituted medium described above and a cell.
                             The invention is also directed to a method of making a recombinant protein in
            a cell culture medium comprising: contacting a cell with the cell culture medium,
            concentrated feed, or reconstituted medium described above; and cultivating said cell
15          under conditions suitable for the growth of said cell and/or the expression of said
            recombinant protein.
                             The invention is also directed to a kit for the cultivation of a cell in vitro, said
            kit comprising one or more containers, wherein a first container contains a medium
            comprising at least one dipeptide described above, and wherein said medium supports
20          the growth of the cell in culture and/or the expression of recombinant protein. The
            culturing of the cell may be in suspension or in adherent culture. The growth may be
            high-density growth.
                              The invention is also directed to a method of making a virus or a viral particle
            in a cell culture medium, concentrated feed, or reconstituted medium described above
25          comprising: culturing a recombinant cell in the cell culture medium described above,
            wherein the medium supports the growth of said cell under conditions suitable for
            expression of said virus or viral particle.
                              The invention is also directed to a recombinant protein produced by the
            methods described above; or, the virus or viral particle produced by the methods
30          described above; or, the use of a cell culture medium, concentrated feed, or
            reconstituted medium described above, to produce a virus or a recombinant protein; or,
            a culture medium, concentrated feed, or reconstituted medium produced by the methods
            described above.
                                                             -15
   10114543 1 (GHMatters)P91530.AU.3

             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part
   of this specification, illustrate certain embodiments of the invention, and together with
   the written description, serve to explain certain principles of the invention.
 5           Figure 1 shows viable cell density (x10 6 cells/mL) (depicted by curves), and
   IgG titer (mg/L) (depicted by bars) of CHO cells grown in (i) a basal cell culture
   medium (CD FortiCHOTM) supplemented with either a glucose feed, and (ii) CD
   FortiCHOTM + aa (concentrated amino acid mixture with low levels of cysteine and
   tyrosine, with glucose) + DP (dipeptide) feed schedule 2 (FP2) or (iii) CD FortiCHO TM
10 + aa (concentrated amino acid mixture with low levels of cysteine and tyrosine, with
   glucose) + DP (dipeptide) feed schedule 3 (FP3). See Examples.
             Figure 2 shows an exemplary profile chromatogram of a solution containing
   the Ala-Tyr dipeptide, with the Ala-Tyr dipeptide represented by the peak at 6.172
   minutes (bottom panel).
15           Figure 3 shows an exemplary profile chromatogram of a solution containing
   the Ala-Cys dipeptide, with the Ala-Cys dipeptide represented by the peak at 6.631
   minutes (bottom panel).
             Figure 4 shows an exemplary profile extracted ion chromatogram of a
   solution containing an Ala-Tyr dipeptide standard, represented by the peak at 8.8
20 minutes.
             Figure 5 shows an exemplary profile extracted ion chromatogram of a
   solution containing an Ala-Cys dimer standard, represented by the peak at 9.6 minutes.
             Figure 6 shows an exemplary profile total ion chromatogram of an exemplary
   feed sample containing an Ala-Cys dimer and an Ala-Tyr dipeptide.
25           Figure 7 shows an exemplary profile extracted ion chromatogram of an
   exemplary feed sample containing an Ala-Tyr dipeptide and an Ala-Cys dimer.
             DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             Reference will now be made in detail to various exemplary embodiments. It is
30 to be understood that the following detailed description is provided to give the reader a
   fuller understanding of certain embodiments, features, and details of aspects of the
   invention, and should not be interpreted as a limitation of the scope of the invention.
                      1.      Definitions
             In order that the present invention may be more readily understood, certain
                                              -16-

   terms are first defined. Additional definitions are set forth throughout the detailed
   description.
              It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein,
   such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
 5 common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
              In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
10 preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   invention.
              As used herein, "cell culture" or "culture" refers to the maintenance of cells in
   an artificial (e.g., an in vitro) environment. It is to be understood, however, that the
   term "cell culture" is a generic term and may be used to encompass the cultivation not
15 only of individual prokaryotic (e.g., bacterial) or eukaryotic (e.g., animal, plant and
   fungal) cells, but also of tissues, organs, organ systems or whole organisms, for which
   the terms "tissue culture," "organ culture," "organ system culture" or "organotypic
   culture" may occasionally be used interchangeably with the term "cell culture."
              As used herein, "cultivation" refers to the maintenance of cells in an artificial
20 environment under conditions favoring growth, differentiation, or continued viability, in
   an active or quiescent state, of the cells. Thus, "cultivation" may be used
   interchangeably with "cell culture" or any of its synonyms described above.
              As used herein, "cell culture medium," "culture medium," or "medium" (and
   in each case plural media) refer to a nutritive composition that supports the cultivation
25 and/or growth of cells. The cell culture medium may be a complete formulation, i.e., a
   cell culture medium that requires no supplementation to culture cells, may be an
   incomplete formulation, i.e., a cell culture medium that requires supplementation or
   may be a medium that may supplement an incomplete formulation or in the case of a
   complete formulation, may improve culture or culture results. The terms "cell culture
30 medium," "culture medium," or "medium" (and in each case plural media) refer to
   unconditioned cell culture media that has not been incubated with cells, unless indicated
   otherwise from the context. As such, the terms "cell culture medium," "culture
   medium," or "medium" (and in each case plural media) are distinguished from "spent"
   or "conditioned" medium, which may contain many of the original components of the
                                               -17-

   medium, as well as a variety of cellular metabolites and secreted proteins.
              As used herein, "small peptide" refers to a chain of two to six amino acids
   joined together by one or more peptide or equivalent bonds, wherein at least one of the
    amino acids is a tyrosine or a cysteine. Preferably the amino acids in the small peptide,
 5  other than tyrosine or cysteine, exhibit good solubility properties at neutral pH. Thus,
    in one embodiment, the amino acids in the small peptide, other than tyrosine or
    cysteine, are selected from alanine, glycine, serine, valine, proline, glutamic acid,
    aspartic acid, glutamine, and arginine. In another embodiment, the N-terminal amino
    acid of the small peptide has a free amino group. In an embodiment of the invention, the
10  small peptide may comprise a non-amino acid with a free amine group, like
    ethanolamine, or a free carboxylic group, or a similar compound.
              As used herein, "extract" refers to a composition comprising a component of a
    substance or a concentrated preparation of the subgroups of a substance, typically
    formed by treatment of the substance either mechanically (e.g., by pressure treatment)
15  or chemically (e.g., by distillation, precipitation, enzymatic action or high salt
   treatment).
              As used herein, the term "ingredient" refers to any compound, whether of
   chemical or biological origin, that can be used in cell culture media to maintain or
   promote the growth of proliferation of cells. The terms "component," "nutrient" and
20 "ingredient" can be used interchangeably and are all meant to refer to such compounds.
   Typical ingredients that can be used in cell culture media include amino acids, salts,
   metals, sugars, carbohydrates, lipids, nucleic acids, hormones, vitamins, fatty acids,
   proteins and the like. Other ingredients that promote or maintain cultivation of cells ex
    vivo can be selected by those of skill in the art, in accordance with the particular need.
25            A "IX formulation" refers to any aqueous solution that contains some or all
    ingredients found in a cell culture medium at working concentrations. The "IX
    formulation" can refer to, for example, the cell culture medium or to any subgroup of
    ingredients for that medium. The concentration of an ingredient in a IX solution is
    about the same as the concentration of that ingredient found in a cell culture
30  formulation used for maintaining or cultivating cells in vitro. A cell culture medium
   used for the in vitro cultivation of cells is a IX formulation by definition. When a
   number of ingredients are present, each ingredient in a IX formulation has a
   concentration about equal to the concentration of those ingredients in a cell culture
   medium. For example, RPMI-1640 culture medium contains, among other ingredients,
                                              -18-

   0.2 g/L L-arginine, 0.05 g/L L-asparagine, and 0.02 g/L L-aspartic acid. A "IX
   formulation" of these amino acids contains about the same concentrations of these
   ingredients in solution. Thus, when referring to a "IX formulation," it is intended that
   each ingredient in solution has the same or about the same concentration as that found
 5 in the cell culture medium being described. The concentrations of ingredients in a IX
   formulation of cell culture medium are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
   See Cell Culture Technology for Pharmaceutical and Cell-Based Therapies, 42-50
   (Sadettin Ozturk and Wei-Shou Hu eds., Taylor and Francis Group 2006), which is
   incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The osmolality and/or pH, however,
10 may differ in a 1X formulation compared to the culture medium, particularly when
   fewer ingredients are contained in the 1X formulation.
             A "lOX formulation" is meant to refer to a solution wherein each ingredient in
   that solution is about 10 times more concentrated than the same ingredient in the cell
   culture medium. For example, a lOX formulation of RPMI-1640 culture medium may
15 contain, among other ingredients, 2.0 g/L L-arginine, 0.5 g/L L-asparagine, and 0.2 g/L
   L-aspartic acid (compare 1X formulation, above). A "OX formulation" may contain a
   number of additional ingredients at a concentration about 10 times that found in the IX
   culture medium. As will be readily apparent, "5X formulation," "25X formulation,"
   "50X formulation," "1OX formulation," "50OX formulation," and "1000X
20 formulation" designate solutions that contain ingredients at about 5- 25-, 50-, 100-, 500
   , or 1000-fold concentrations, respectively, as compared to a 1X cell culture medium.
   Again, the osmolality and pH of the media formulation and concentrated solution may
   vary. A formulation may contain components or ingredients at IX with respect to a
   particular cell culture protocol, but at a concentration, for example, 2, 2.5, 5, 6.7, 9, 12
25 etc. X with respect to a different culture protocol or different base medium.
             A dimer consists of two dipeptides. So, for e.g., a dimer of Ala-Cys would
   comprise Ala-Cys-Cys-Ala, wherein the cys-cys are bonded by a disulfide linkage. Ala
   Cys-Cys-Ala could also be referred to as N,N'-di-L-Alanyl-L-Cystine.
30    1.      Small Peptides
              The present disclosure concerns the use of small peptides, including
   dipeptides, in cell culture medium. Applicants have found that preparing cell culture
   medium containing the desired concentrations of certain amino acids, such as tyrosine
   and cysteine, has not been possible due to the low solubility of tyrosine and low
                                              -19-

   stability of cysteine. The solubility and stability problems of tyrosine and cysteine have
   been addressed by using less than the desired concentration of tyrosine or cysteine in
   the aqueous cell culture medium, thereby making them the rate limiting amino acids for
   optimal cell growth and/or protein production, as nutrients are used during cell culture.
 5 Although using less than the desired concentration of tyrosine and cysteine may result
   in an acceptable aqueous shelf life, solubility and stability, it may also require the
   addition of higher volumes of media during cell culture supplementation, for e.g., in a
   fed-batch culture system to achieve desired productivity. This is undesirable, as the
   stoichiometric balance, pH and/or osmolality of the system would need to be re
10 adjusted as well.
              The problem with large volume supplementation can be addressed by using a
   concentrated feed supplement. A desirable concentrated feed supplement is a
   nutritionally complex, stoichiometrically balanced nutrient additive that supplements
   nutrient-depleted culture systems, in a fed-batch culture system, which additionally, and
15 desirably, may have auto- pH and auto-osmolality balancing characteristics. However,
   due to the low solubility of tyrosine and low stability of cysteine, concentrated feed
   compositions with high levels of cysteine and tyrosine have been a challenge to prepare.
   It generally results in the cysteine or tyrosine coming out of solution over time. Single
   part, pH-neutral, chemically-defined concentrated feeds that are stable have thus been
20 difficult to synthesize. To circumvent the problem, multi-part concentrated feeds that
   are acidic or alkaline have been prepared.
              Applicants have discovered that it is possible to substitute the free amino
   acids, tyrosine and cysteine, in a cell culture medium with small peptides like dipeptides
   alanyl-tyrosine, glycyl-tyrosine, alanyl-cysteine (which forms a disulfide dimer,
25 [AlaCys]2), or glycyl-cysteine (which forms a disulfide dimer, [GlyCys]2), or other
   small peptides comprising one or more tyrosines or cysteines. Cell culture medium
   containing these dipeptides, or other small peptides, provides cells with concentrations
   of tyrosine and/or cysteine sufficient to support maximal cell growth and/or protein
   production while avoiding the solubility and stability problems associated with free
30 tyrosine and/or cysteine.
              The small peptides of the invention have two to six amino acids, wherein at
   least one of the amino acids is a cysteine or tyrosine, and where the remaining amino
   acids can be any amino acid. Preferably the amino acids in the small peptide, other than
   tyrosine or cysteine, exhibit good solubility properties at neutral pH. In one
                                              -20-

   embodiment, the amino acids in the small peptide other than tyrosine or cysteine are
   selected from alanine, glycine, serine, valine, proline, glutamic acid, or aspartic acid. In
   another embodiment, the N-terminal amino acid of the small peptide has a free amino
   group. In an embodiment of the invention, the small peptide (di, tri, four, five or six
 5 amino acids) may comprise a non-amino acid with a free amine group, like
   ethanolamine, or a free carboxylic group, or a similar compound that can contribute to a
   peptide bond. In another embodiment, the small peptide may comprise cysteine
   dimerized via the sulfide bond. Due to cysteine-cysteine dimerization (cys-cys)
   dimerization, although the small peptides of the invention are defined as having a length
10 of 2 to 6 amino acids, there may be compositions that result in longer peptides due to
   spontaneous cysteine-cysteine dimerization that may occur within a media or feed of
   the invention. Such compounds are also soluble, even in high concentrations, and as
   such, are completely within the scope of this invention.
              In other embodiments, the small peptides are dipeptides having two amino
15 acids and represented by the formula: X-tyrosine, X-cysteine, tyrosine-X, or cysteine
   X, or a salt thereof, wherein X is any amino acid, and wherein the N-terminal amino
   acid of the dipeptide has a free amino group. Thus, the dipeptides are distinct from the
   N-acyl dipeptides disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,534,538, which require an acyl group
   covalently bonded to the amino group of the N-terminal amino acid. According to U.S.
20 Patent No. 5,534,538, it is the presence of the acyl group that confers the superior
   stability properties to the dipeptides. Preferably, X is an amino acid with good
   solubility properties. In one embodiment, X is alanine or glycine. In another
   embodiment, X is serine, valine, proline, glutamic acid, or aspartic acid.
              In one embodiment, the small peptides are dipeptides having two amino acids,
25 and the one or more dipeptides of the invention are selected from X-tyrosine, X
   cysteine, tyrosine-X, and cysteine-X, or a salt thereof, wherein X is any amino acid, and
   wherein the N-terminal amino acid of the dipeptide has a free amino group. In one
   embodiment, X is alanine or glycine. In another embodiment, X is any amino acid,
   derivative of an amino acid, a non-amino acid that has an amino- group, like
30 ethanolamine. In an aspect of this embodiment, the preferred amino acid is selected
   from the group: serine, valine, proline, aspartic acid, arginine, glutamine, or glutamic
   acid.
              In another embodiment, the small peptides are tripeptides having three amino
   acids, including the following tripeptides: X-X-tyrosine, X-X-cysteine, X-tyrosine-X,
                                             -21-

   X-cysteine-X, tyrosine-X-X, cysteine-X-X, or a salt thereof, wherein X is any amino
   acid. In one embodiment, the N-terminal amino acid of the tripeptide has a free amino
   group. Preferably, X is an amino acid with good solubility properties. In one
   embodiment, X is alanine or glycine. In another embodiment, X is serine, valine,
 5 proline, glutamic acid, glutamine, arginine, or aspartic acid. In a certain aspect of the
   invention, the compositions described above that containing cysteine and tyrosine in
   small peptides is used to increase protein production in a cell line. In a preferred aspect
   of the invention, the increased protein is an antibody that is produced in higher titers
   than in media without the small peptides. By higher antibody production is meant about
10 0.1 g/L to about 10 g/L, about 0.1 g/L to about 5 g/L, about 0.1 g/L to about 2.5 g/L,
   about 0.1 g/L to about 1 g/L, preferably about 1 g/L to about 10 g/L, more preferably
   about 2 g/L to about 8 g/L, and so on.
             Depending on the cell and the intended use of the cell, one or more small
   peptides or dipeptides of the cell culture medium, feed, concentrated media or feed, etc.
15 will optimally be present at concentrations stoichiometrically balanced to optimize cell
   culture performance. For example, the concentration of one or more small peptides or
   dipeptides in some cell culture media or the concentrated feeds may be at about 0.5 g/L
   to about 30 g/L, about 0.5 g/L to about 25 g/L, about 0.5 g/L to about 20 g/L, about 0.5
   g/L to about 16 g/L, about 0.5 g/L to about 10 g/L, about 0.5 g/L to about 5 g/L, about
20 0.5 g/L to about 4 g/L, about 1 g/L to about 30 g/L, about 1 g/L to about 20 g/L, about 1
   g/L to about 16 g/L, about 1 g/L to about 10 g/L, about 1 g/L to about 5 g/L, about 2.5
   g/L to about 30 g/L, about 2.5 g/L to about 20 g/L, about 2.5 g/L to about 16 g/L, about
   2.5 g/L to about 10 g/L, about 2.5 g/L to about 5 g/L, or about 2.5 g/L to about 4.5 g/L,
   about 5 g/L to about 30 g/L, about 5 g/L to about 25 g/L, about 5 g/L to about 20 g/L,
25 about 5 g/L to about 16 g/L, about 5 g/L to about 10 g/L, about 5 g/L to about 5 g/L,
   about 5 g/L to about 4 g/L, and so on. In some media formulations or prototype media
   formulations, one or more small peptides, and/or one or more dipeptides may be present
   at a concentration of about 2.5 g/L to about 8.5 g/L in the media or prototype media.
   Additionally, some embodiments of the invention provide methods of preparing "auto
30 pH media" or feed powders which automatically are at a desired pH upon
   rehydration/reconstitution with a solvent. In accordance with the invention, such media
   or feeds may be in powdered (dry powder (DPM), advanced powder (APM) or
   advanced granulating technology (AGT) or in liquid form.
             Animal cell culture media or feeds prepared by the present methods will, upon
                                             -22-

            reconstitution, preferably have a pH of about 6-8, or about 7-8, or about 6.0-6.3 (for
            insect cells), more preferably about 7-7.5 or about 7.2-7.4, most preferably around 7.0;
            and plant cell culture media or feeds prepared by the present methods will, upon
            reconstitution, preferably have a pH of about 4-8, preferably about 4.5-7, 5-6 or 5.5-6,
 5          or preferably about 6.0 to 6.3. Of course, optimal pH for a given culture medium to be
            used on a particular cell type may also be determined empirically by one of ordinary
             skill using art-known methods.
                                 2.  Cell Culture Medium
                             A cell culture medium is composed of a number of ingredients and these
10          ingredients vary from one culture medium to another. As noted above, a cell culture
            medium may be a complete formulation, i.e., a cell culture medium that requires no
             supplementation to culture cells, may be an incomplete formulation, i.e., a cell culture
            medium that requires supplementation or may be a supplement that may supplement an
            incomplete formulation or in the case of a complete formulation, may improve culture
15          or culture results.
                              Generally a cell culture medium will have solutes dissolved in solvent. The
             solutes provide an osmotic force to balance the osmotic pressure across the cell
            membrane (or wall). Additionally the solutes will provide nutrients for the cell. Some
            nutrients will be chemical fuel for cellular operations; some nutrients may be raw
20          materials for the cell to use in anabolism; some nutrients may be machinery, such as
            enzymes or carriers that facilitate cellular metabolism; some nutrients may be binding
            agents that bind and buffer ingredients for cell use or that bind or sequester deleterious
            cell products.
                             Depending on the cell and the intended use of the cell, the ingredients of the
25          cell culture medium will optimally be present at concentrations balanced to optimize
            cell culture performance. Performance will be measured in accordance with a one or
            more desired characteristics, for example, cell number, cell mass, cell density, 02
            consumption, consumption of a culture ingredient, such as glucose or a nucleotide,
            production of a biomolecule, secretion of a biomolecule, formation of a waste product
30          or by product, e.g., a metabolite, activity on an indicator or signal molecule, etc. Each
            or a selection of the ingredients will thus preferably optimized to a working
            concentration for the intended purpose.
                              Culture media or feed supplements of the invention may be available in a dry
             format that requires only addition of a solvent such as water. Preferably the dry format
                                                            -23
   10114543 1 (GHMatters)P91530.AU.3

   powder is prepared by at least one method selected from the group consisting of
   milling, impacting, extruding and cutting or breaking, wet granulation, high shear
   granulation, pan granulation and fluidized bed agglomeration. Dry formats include, but
   are not limited to, dry powder format (DPM), agglomerated (AGTTM) format, advanced
 5 powder media (APM), or other suitable dry formats. Preferably, once water is added,
   dissolution should occur quickly and the resultant liquid can be filtered and added
   directly to the cells without any pH adjustment. The reconstituted medium or
   concentrated supplement may be prepared in variable bulk quantities and is amenable to
   sterilization, particularly by ionizing or ultraviolet irradiation.
10                    a.      Carbohydrates
              Cell culture medium ingredients typically include a carbohydrate, amino acids,
   salts, trace elements, and vitamins. For mammalian cells, the main carbohydrate used
   in cell culture media is glucose, routinely supplemented at 5 to 25 nM. See Cell Culture
   Technology for Pharmaceutical and Cell-Based Therapies, 51 (Sadettin Ozturk and
15 Wei-Shou Hu eds., Taylor and Francis Group 2006). In addition to glucose, any hexose
   like galactose, fructose, or mannose or a combination of these may be used. In addition,
   mammalian cells can also use glutamine as a major energy source. Glutamine is often
   included at higher concentrations than other amino acids (2-8 mM). However, as noted
   above, glutamine can spontaneously break down to form ammonia and certain cell lines
20 produce ammonia faster, which is toxic. Therefore, glutamate and glutamine dipeptides
   have been used as substitutes for glutamine to reduce the build up of toxic ammonia in
   the cell culture medium.
                      b.      Amino Acids
              Amino acids are important in cell culture medium for maintaining the
25 metabolic function of the cultured cells. Cell culture medium typically includes the
   essential amino acids (i.e., those amino acids that are normally not synthesized in vivo
   by mammals) as well as certain non-essential amino acids. A non essential amino acid
   is typically included in the cell culture medium if the cell line is not capable of
   synthesizing the amino acid or if the cell line cannot produce sufficient quantities of the
30 amino acid to support maximal growth. Exemplary amino acids include L-alanine, L
   arginine, L-asparagine, L-aspartic acid, L-cysteine, L-glutamic acid, L-glutamine,
   glycine, L-histidine, L-isoleucine, L-leucine, L-lysine, L-methionine, L-phenylalanine,
   L-proline, L-hydroxyproline, L-serine, L-threonine, L-tryptophan, L-tyrosine, and L
   valine.
                                             -24-

                                      c.     Salts
                              Salts are added to cell culture medium to maintain isotonic conditions and
            prevent osmotic imbalances. The osmolality of standard mammalian cell culture
            medium is about 300 mOsm/kg, although many cell lines can tolerate an approximately
 5           10% variation of this value. The osmolality of some insect cell cultures tend to be
            higher than 300 mOsm/kg, and this may be 0.5%, 1%, 2 to 5%, 5- 10%, 10-15%, 15
            20%, 20-25%, 25-30% higher than 300 mOsm/kg. The most commonly used salts in
            cell culture medium include Na+, K+, Mg 2 +, Ca 2+, Cl-, S0       4
                                                                                2
                                                                                  -, P0 4
                                                                                          3
                                                                                            -, and HCO 3- (e.g.,
            CaCl2, KCl, NaCl, NaHCO 3, Na2HPO4). Therefore, the desired osmolality for a cell
10          culture medium for cultivation of a particular cell type may also be determined
            empirically by one of ordinary skill in the art, using art-known methods.
                                      d.     Inorganic Elements
                             Other inorganic elements that are present in serum in trace amounts can be
            included in cell culture medium, as described in US 2005/0287666, which is hereby
15          incorporated by reference in its entirety. They include Mn, Cu, Zn, Mo, Va, Se, Fe, Ca,
            Mg, Si, and Ni. Other inorganic elements that have been added to cell culture medium,
            although not as frequently, include Al, Ag, Ba, Br, Cd, Co, Cr, F, Ge, J, Rb, and Zr.
            Many of these elements are involved in enzymatic activity. They may be provided in
            the form of salts such as CaCl2, Fe(N03)3, MgCl2, MgSO4, MnCl2, NaCl, NaHCO3,
20          Na2HPO4, and ions of the trace elements, such as, selenium, vanadium and zinc. These
            trace elements may be provided in a variety of forms, preferably in the form of salts
             such as Na2SeO3, NH 4VO 3, etc. These inorganic salts and trace elements may be
            obtained commercially, for example from Sigma (Saint Louis, Missouri).
                                      e.     Vitamins
25                           Vitamins are typically used by cells as cofactors. The vitamin requirements of
            each cell line vary greatly, although generally extra vitamins are needed if the cell
            culture medium contains little or no serum or if the cells are grown at high density.
            Exemplary vitamins include biotin, choline chloride, folic acid, i-inositol, nicotinamide,
            D-Ca++-pantothenate, pyridoxal, riboflavin, thiamine, pyridoxine, niacinamide, A, B 6,
30          B 12 , C, D3, E, K, and p-aminobenzoic acid (PABA).
                                      f.     Serum
                              Serum, the supernatant of clotted blood, can be used in cell culture medium to
            provide components that promote cell growth and/or productivity. These serum
            components include attachment factors, micronutrients (e.g., trace elements), growth
                                                              -25
   10114543 1 (GHMatters)P91530.AU.3

   factors (e.g., hormones, proteases), and protective elements (e.g., antitoxins,
   antioxidants, antiproteases). Serum is available from a variety of animal sources
   including bovine or equine. When included in cell culture medium, serum is typically
   added at a concentration of 5-10%. Certain cell culture media are serum free.
 5                    g.     Growth Factors
              To promote cell growth in the absence or serum or in serum reduced media,
   one or more of the following polypeptides can be added to a cell culture medium: for
   example, fibroblast growth factor (FGF), including acidic FGF and basic FGF, insulin,
   insulin-like growth factor (IGF), epithelial growth factor (EGF), nerve growth factor
10 (NGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), and transforming growth factor (TGF),
   including TGFa and TGF3, any cytokine, such as interleukins 1, 2, 6, granulocyte
   stimulating factor, Leukocyte inhibitory factor (LIF), etc.
              In certain embodiments, the cell culture medium does not contain a growth
   factor. In protein-free media, insulin may be replaced with zinc or a zinc containing
15 compound, as described in WO 98/08934, which is hereby incorporated by reference in
   its entirety.
                      h.     Lipids
              One or more lipids can also be added to a cell culture medium. Serum
   typically contains lipids, such as fatty acids (e.g., linoleic acid, linolenic acid,
20 arachidonic acid, palmitoleic acid, oleic acid, polyenoic acid, and/or fatty acids of 12,
   14, 16, 18, 20, or 24 carbon atoms, each carbon atom branched or unbranched),
   phospholipids, lecithin (phophatidylcholine), and cholesterol. Alternatively, one or
   more of these lipids can be included as supplements in serum-free media. Phosphatidic
   acid and lysophosphatidic acid stimulate the growth of certain anchorage-dependent
25 cells, such as MDCK, mouse epithelial, and other kidney cell lines, while
   phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylinositol stimulate the
   growth of human fibroblasts in serum-free media. Ethanolamine and cholesterol have
   also been shown to promote the growth of certain cell lines. In certain embodiment, the
   cell culture medium does not contain a lipid.
30                    i.     Carrier Proteins
              One or more carrier proteins, such as bovine serum albumin (BSA) or
   transferrin, can also be added to the cell culture medium. Carrier proteins can help in
   the transport of certain nutrients or trace elements. BSA is typically used as a carrier of
   lipids, such as linoleic and oleic acids, which are insoluble in aqueous solution. In
                                             -26-

   addition, BSA can also serve as a carrier for certain metals, such as Fe, Cu, and Ni. In
   protein-free formulations, non-animal derived substitutes for BSA, such as
   cyclodextrin, can be used as lipid carriers. Transferrin is involved in transporting iron
   across cell membranes. In certain cases, human serum albumin may be necessary for
 5 the cultivation of cells (for. e.g., such as in xeno-free (XF) culture) desirable for
   products generated for downstream therapeutic use. In other instances, recombinant
   human serum albumin may be used in the cell culture medium for the cultivation of
   cells. In particular cases, the recombinant human serum albumin may be derived from
   plant, algal or fungal sources such as rice, corn, potato, wheat, even yeast, etc. to
10 provide for animal-origin free (AOF) culturing of cells. In protein-free formulations,
   transferrin can be replaced by ferric and/or ferrous salts, as described in WO 98/08934,
   which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety, or a hydroxypyridine
   derivative, as described in US 2007/0254358, which is hereby incorporated by reference
   in its entirety. Additionally, in protein-free formulations, insulin can be replaced by
15 zinc, vanadium or other suitable divalent salts.
                      j.       Attachments Proteins
              One or more attachment proteins, such as fibronectin, laminin, and pronectin,
   can also be added to a cell culture medium to help promote the attachment of
   anchorage-dependent cells to a substrate.
20                    k.       Buffering Agent
              The cell culture medium can optionally include one or more buffering agents.
   Suitable buffering agents include, but are not limited to, N-[2-hydroxyethyl]-piperazine
   N'-[2-ethanesulfonic acid] (HEPES), MOPS, MES, phosphate, bicarbonate and other
   buffering agents suitable for use in cell culture applications. A suitable buffering agent
25 is one that provides buffering capacity without substantial cytotoxicity to the cells
   cultured. The selection of suitable buffering agents is within the ambit of ordinary skill
   in the art of cell culture.
                       1.      Polyanionic or Polycationic Compounds
              Polyanionic or polycationic compounds can prevent the cells from clumping
30 and promote growth of the cells in suspension. See WO 98/08934, which is hereby
   incorporated by reference in its entirety. Exemplary polyanionic compounds include
   polysulfonated or polysulfated compound, such as, heparin, dextran sulfate, heparan
   sulfate, dermatan sulfate, chondroitin sulfate, pentosan polysulfate, a proteoglycan or
   the like.
                                              -27-

              In addition to the small peptides or dipeptides described herein, the cell culture
   medium comprises one or more ingredients, such as those listed above. In one
   embodiment, the cell culture medium comprises one or more small peptides or one or
   more dipeptides, as described herein, and optionally comprises one or more of the
 5 following ingredients: ethanolamine, D-glucose, HEPES, insulin, a cytokine (e.g., IL
   6), heparin, dextran sulfate, linoleic acid, lipoic acid, phenol red, PLURONIC@ F68,
   putrescine, sodium pyruvate, transferrin, L-alanine, L-arginine, L-asparagine, L-aspartic
   acid, L-cysteine, L-glutamic acid, L-glutamine, glycine, L-histidine, L-isoleucine, L
   leucine, L-lysine, L-methionine, L-phenylalanine, L-proline, L-serine, L-threonine, L
10 tryptophan, L-tyrosine, L-valine, biotin, choline chloride, D-Ca"-pantothenate, folic
   acid, i-inositol, niacinamide, pyridoxine, riboflavin, thiamine, vitamin B 12 , one or more
   calcium salts, Fe(N0 3)3 , KCl, one or more magnesium salts, one or more manganese
   salts, NaCl, NaHCO 3 , Na 2HPO 4, one or more selenium salts, one or more vanadium
   salts and one or more zinc salts. In one embodiment, the one or more dipeptides are
15 selected from X-tyrosine, X-cysteine, tyrosine-X, and cysteine-X, or a salt thereof,
   wherein X is any amino acid, and wherein the N-terminal amino acid of the dipeptide
   has a free amino group. In one embodiment, X is alanine or glycine. In another
   embodiment X is serine, valine, proline, aspartic acid, or glutamic acid.
              The media described herein can be a 1X formulation or can be concentrated as
20 anything greater than a IX formulation, for example, as a 2X, 5X, lOX, 20X, 50X,
   500X, or 1OOOX medium formulation as the solubilities of the individual components
   allow. If the individual medium ingredients are prepared as separate concentrated
   solutions, an appropriate (sufficient) amount of each concentrate is combined with a
   diluent to produce a IX medium formulation. Typically, the diluent used is water but
25 other solutions including aqueous buffers, aqueous saline solution, or other aqueous
   solutions may be used.
             The media described herein can also be prepared in different forms, such as
   dry powder media, a granulated preparation (which requires addition of water, but not
   other processing, such as pHing), liquid media or as media concentrates.
30            3.      Serum-Free Medium
              Potential problems associated with serum, including batch to batch variation,
   high protein content, risk of contaminants (e.g., viruses, mycoplasma, prions), limited
   availability, and high cost, have driven the production of serum-free media.
   Furthermore, improved levels of recombinant protein expression can be obtained from
                                             -28-

   cells grown in serum-free medium, relative to the level of expression seen in cells
   grown in medium supplemented with serum (Battista, P. J. et al., Am. Biotech Lab. 12:
   64-68 (1994)).
              In these serum-free media, serum can be replaced with a defined hormone, or
 5 hormone cocktails, such as HITES or ITES, which contain hydrocortisone, insulin,
   transferrin, ethanolamine, and selenite. Alternatively, the serum-free media can contain
   growth factor extracts from endocrine glands, such as epidermal or fibroblast growth
   factors. Serum-free media can also contain other components as a substitute for serum,
   including purified proteins (animal or recombinant), peptones, amino acids, inorganic
10 salts, and animal or plant hydrolysates (or fractions thereof).
              Serum-free media may be chemically defined or undefined. In chemically
   defined media, the identity of the components and their amounts are known, whereas
   the opposite is true for chemically undefined media. Chemically defined media,
   therefore, are designed, in part, to reduce the risk of contaminants and to reduce batch
15 to batch variation. Chemically defined supplements that can be added to cell culture
   media include growth factors, hormones, carrier proteins, and/or attachment factors. In
   a preferred embodiment, the basal medium used with the media or feeds comprising
   small peptides is a chemically-defined medium. In another preferred embodiment, the
   concentrated cell culture media or concentrated feed of the invention comprising small
20 peptides is also a chemically-defined composition. In yet another preferred
   embodiment, the concentrated feed or medium of the invention comprising small
   peptides including cysteine and tyrosine is a single part feed and is chemically-defined.
   In another aspect, all the above compositions comprising small peptides including
   cysteine and tyrosine are auto-pH and auto-osmolality balanced. In yet another aspect,
25 all the above compositions comprising small peptides including cysteine and tyrosine
   are stoichiometrically balanced.
              4.      Protein-Free Media
              Serum-free media contains reduced amounts of protein as compared to cell
   culture media containing serum. However, serum-free media may still contain one or
30 more of a variety of animal-derived components, including albumin, fetuin, various
   hormones and other proteins. The presence of proteins makes purification of
   recombinant protein difficult, time-consuming, and expensive and can also lead to
   reduced product yields and/or purity. Thus, in one embodiment, the cell culture
   medium is protein free.
                                             -29-

             Protein-free media can be obtained by methods known in the art, such as by
   removing any remaining proteins from serum-free media. While the removal of such
   proteins from the cell culture media can impair the media's ability to support cell
   growth, other components can be added to the media to mitigate the effect of removing
 5 the proteins from the media. For example, as discussed above, cyclodextrin can replace
   BSA and iron salts or a hydroxypyridine derivative can replace transferrin. In other
   cases, animal tissue or plant hydrolysates (or fractions thereof) have been used to
   supplement protein-free media.
             5.      Fed-Batch Cultivation
10           Fed-batch cultivation of cells is typically used for industrial production of
   biomolecules, such as proteins, to increase cell concentration and to extend culture
   lifetime for a high product concentration and volumetric productivity. Fed-batch
   cultures involve the controlled addition of one or more nutrients, in the form of feeds
   which may contain nutrients that are quickly utilized by cells such as glucose, amino
15 acids to a basal medium. The nutrient(s) help to control the growth of the cell culture
   by attempting to prevent nutrient depletion and byproduct accumulation, important
   parameters, such as pH, osmolality and C02 concentration, within levels that promote
   cell growth or minimize cell death for optimal product expression. See Cell Culture
   Technology for Pharmaceutical and Cell-Based Therapies, 349-386 (Sadettin Ozturk
20 and Wei-Shou Hu eds., Taylor and Francis Group 2006). Even then, fed batch cultures
   often result in high concentrations of inhibitory metabolites and high osmolalities that
   eventually are incompatible with cell viability.
             A basal medium is typically used for maintenance of a cell culture, and can
   comprise a number of ingredients, including amino acids, vitamins, organic and
25 inorganic salts, sugars and other components, each ingredient being present in an
   amount which supports the cultivation of the cell in vitro. Basal media useful for
   prokaryotic cell culture including bacterial and archebacterial cultures, viral cultures,
   plant cell culture, insect cell culture, mammalian cell culture can be used with the small
   peptide Examples of basal media include Eagle's basal medium (BME), Eagle's
30 minimal essential medium (EMEM), Dulbecco's modification of Eagle's medium
   (DMEM), Glasgow's modification of Eagle's medium (GMEM), Joklik's modified
   Eagle's medium, Alpha modified Eagle's medium, Roswell Park Memorial Institute
   (RPMI) medium, Fischer's medium, Leibovitz L-15 medium, Trowell's T-8 medium,
   Williams' medium E, Biggers' medium, Connaught Medical Research Laboratories
                                              -30-

   (CMRL) 1066 medium, Ham's F10 medium, Ham's F12 medium, Iscove's modified
   Dulbecco's medium (IMDM), MCDB 104, MCDB 110, MCDB 153, Medium 199,
   NCTC 135 medium, and Waymouth's medium MB 752/1. For CHO cells, preferred
   basal media include CD CHO, CD OptiCHO TM , and CD FortiCHOTM (all from Life
 5 Technologies, Corp., Carlsbad, CA). Preferred concentrated feed supplements for CHO
   cells include, but are not limited to, CHO CD EfficientFeedTM A (Invitrogen Cat. No.
   A1023401), CHO CD EfficientFeed TM B (Invitrogen Cat. No. A1024001), CHO CD
   EfficientFeed TM kit (Invitrogen Cat. No. A1024101), CD EfficientFeed T M C AGT T M
   (Invitrogen Cat. No. A1327501, Life Technologies Corp., Carlsbad, CA).
10            In fed-batch cultivation, cells are typically grown up to a certain time point in
   batch mode using a basal medium. Subsequently, a medium supplement (concentrated
   feed) comprising concentrated solutions of a single or multiple nutrients is added to
   provide nutrients, while minimizing volume increase or culture dilution. When the
   medium supplement is added to basal medium, it improves cell culture, as exhibited, for
15 example, by more rapid cell growth, decreased doubling time, higher achievable density
   of cells, or higher production or yield of biomolecule, such as protein, e.g., antibody or
   other proteins of therapeutic interest.
              A cell culture medium or concentrated feed of the invention, suitable for use in
   supplementing a basal medium, comprises one or more small peptides, including one or
20 more dipeptides, as described herein. The cell culture medium or concentrated feed
   comprising cysteine and tyrosine may be optionally used in conjunction with another
   feed, say, a concentrated mixture of amino acids that may comprise one or more of the
   following ingredients: adenine, ethanolamine, a carbohydrate source (such as a hexose
   like either glucose, mannose, galactose, fructose, or even a combination thereof),
25 heparin, a buffering agent, hydrocortisone, lipoic acid, phenol red,
   phosphoethanolamine, putrescine, sodium pyruvate, tri-iodothyronine, thymidine, L
   alanine, L-arginine, L-asparagine, L-aspartic acid, L-cysteine, L-glutamic acid, L
   glutamine, glycine, L-histidine, L-hydroxyproline, L-isoleucine, L-leucine, L-lysine, L
   methionine, L-phenylalanine, L-proline, L-serine, L-threonine, L-tryptophan, L
30 tyrosine, L-valine, N-acetyl-cysteine, biotin, choline chloride, D-Ca+-pantothenate,
   folic acid, i-inositol, niacinamide, pyridoxine, riboflavin, thiamine, vitamin B 12 ,
   Pluronic F68, recombinant insulin, a calcium salt, CuSO4, FeSO4, FeCl3, Fe(N03)3,
   KCl, a magnesium salt, a manganese salt, sodium acetate, NaCl, NaHCO 3, Na 2HPO 4,
   Na2SO4, a selenium salt, a silicon salt, a molybdenum salt, a vanadium salt, a nickel
                                              -31-

   salt, a tin salt, ZnCl 2, ZnSO 4 or other zinc salts.
               Thus, the concentrated mixture of amino acids used to supplement the basal
   medium may be made up of a stoichiometrically balanced mixture of amino acids, may
   or may not contain cysteine and tyrosine, and may optionally contain one or more of the
 5 following: a carbon source, vitamins, trace elements, and further, may be chemically
   defined in that it does not contain any lipids, hydrolysates, or growth factors. In some
   instances, the concentrated mixture of amino acids may contain animal origin free
   hydrolysates or a fraction of a hydrolysate, for e.g., a plant hydrolysate. Any
   commercially available concentrated mixture of amino acids can be used, for instance,
10 CHO CD EfficientFeed TM A (Invitrogen Cat. No. A1023401), CHO CD EfficientFeed TM
   B (Invitrogen Cat. No. A1024001), CHO CD EfficientFeed TM kit (Invitrogen Cat. No.
   A1024101), CD EfficientFeed TM C AGTT1M (Invitrogen Cat. No. A1327501, Life
   Technologies Corp., Carlsbad, CA).
              In one embodiment, the cysteine and tyrosine containing cell culture medium,
15 or concentrated feed of the invention, suitable for use in supplementing a basal medium,
   is protein free. In another embodiment the cell culture medium, or concentrated feed of
   the invention suitable for use in supplementing a basal medium, is protein free and
   additionally does not contain lipids, hydrolysates or a fraction thereof, or growth
   factors, and therefore would be considered chemically-defined (CD). In one aspect of
20 this embodiment, the cysteine and tyrosine containing cell culture medium, or
   concentrated feed of the invention may optionally contain one or more of the following:
   a carbon source, vitamins, trace elements, and further, may be chemically-defined in
   that it does not contain any lipids, hydrolysates, or growth factors.
               6.      Cells
25            Media containing the cysteine and tyrosine containing small peptides or
   dipeptides described herein can also be used to culture a variety of cells. Cells grown
   using the culture medium and feeds described herein can be derived from any
   prokaryote including archebacteria, algae, yeast, fungus, plant, insect, animal,
   preferably a mammal, and most preferably a mouse or a human. In one embodiment,
30 the media is used to culture eukaryotic cells, including plant or animal cells, such as
   mammalian cells, fish cells, insect cells, amphibian cells or avian cells.
              Mammalian cells that can be cultured with the media described herein include
   primary epithelial cells (e.g., keratinocytes, cervical epithelial cells, bronchial epithelial
   cells, tracheal epithelial cells, kidney epithelial cells and retinal epithelial cells) and
                                               -32-

   established cell lines and their strains (e.g., 293 embryonic kidney cells, BHK cells,
   HeLa cervical epithelial cells and PER-C6 retinal cells, MDBK (NBL-1) cells, 911
   cells, CRFK cells, MDCK cells, CHO cells, BeWo cells, Chang cells, Detroit 562 cells,
   HeLa 229 cells, HeLa S3 cells, Hep-2 cells, KB cells, LS180 cells, LS174T cells, NCI
 5 H-548 cells, RPMI 2650 cells, SW-13 cells, T24 cells, WI-28 VA13, 2RA cells, WISH
   cells, BS-C-I cells, LLC-MK 2 cells, Clone M-3 cells, 1-10 cells, RAG cells, TCMK-1
   cells, Y-1 cells, LLC-PKi cells, PK(15) cells, GHi cells, GH 3 cells, L2 cells, LLC-RC
   256 cells, MHiC1 cells, XC cells, MDOK cells, VSW cells, and TH-I, BI cells, or
   derivatives thereof), fibroblast cells from any tissue or organ (including but not limited
10 to heart, liver, kidney, colon, intestines, esophagus, stomach, neural tissue (brain, spinal
   cord), lung, vascular tissue (artery, vein, capillary), lymphoid tissue (lymph gland,
   adenoid, tonsil, bone marrow, and blood), spleen, and fibroblast and fibroblast-like cell
   lines (e.g., CHO cells, TRG-2 cells, IMR-33 cells, Don cells, GHK-21 cells,
   citrullinemia cells, Dempsey cells, Detroit 551 cells, Detroit 510 cells, Detroit 525 cells,
15 Detroit 529 cells, Detroit 532 cells, Detroit 539 cells, Detroit 548 cells, Detroit 573
   cells, HEL 299 cells, IMR-90 cells, MRC-5 cells, WI-38 cells, WI-26 cells, MiCli cells,
   CHO cells, CV-1 cells, COS-1 cells, COS-3 cells, COS-7 cells, Vero cells, DBS-FrhL-2
   cells, BALB/3T3 cells, F9 cells, SV-T2 cells, M-MSV-BALB/3T3 cells, K-BALB cells,
   BLO-l 1 cells, NOR-10 cells, C3H/IOTI/2 cells, HSDMiC 3 cells, KLN 20 5 cells, McCoy
20 cells, Mouse L cells, Strain 2071 (Mouse L) cells, L-M strain (Mouse L) cells, L-MTK
   (Mouse L) cells, NCTC clones 2472 and 2555, SCC-PSAl cells, Swiss/3T3 cells,
   Indian muntjac cells, SIRC cells, C11 cells, and Jensen cells, Sp2/0, NSO, NS1 cells or
   derivatives thereof).
              Cells cultured according to the methods disclosed herein may be normal cells,
25 diseased cells, transformed cells, mutant cells, somatic cells, genetically engineered
   cells, germ cells, stem cells, precursor cells or embryonic cells, any of which may be
   established or transformed cell lines or obtained from natural sources. Cells may be
   used for experimental purposes or for production of useful components. In certain
   cases, the cultivated cells themselves are the products and use of cells in cellular
30 therapies. The cells may also be cultivated for protein production including antibody
   production, for small RNA production (like miRNA or siRNA), for virus or VLP (virus
   like particle) production, generation and isolation of DNA or viral vectors, for nucleic
   acid production, for vitamin production, for desirable metabolites, biofuel synthesis, etc.
   In one embodiment, the media described herein is used to culture Chinese Hamster
                                              -33-

   Ovary (CHO) cells. CHO cells have been classified as both epithelial and fibroblast
   cells derived from the Chinese hamster ovary. A cell line started from Chinese hamster
   ovary (CHO-KI) (Kao, F.-T. And Puck, T. T., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 60: 1275
   1281 (1968) has been in culture for many years. Most biopharmaceuticals currently
 5 produce proteins in CHO cells for many advantages that the cell line has precise post
   translation modification such as human-like glycosylation patterns, and low risk for
   transmission of human viruses.
              7. Cultivation of Cells
              Cells supported by the culture medium described herein can be cultivated
10 according to the experimental conditions determined by the investigator. The examples
   below demonstrate at least one functional set of culture conditions useful for cultivation
   of certain mammalian cells. It is to be understood, however, that the optimal plating
   and culture conditions for a given animal cell type can be determined by one of ordinary
   skill in the art using only routine experimentation. For routine monolayer culture
15 conditions, using the cell culture media described herein, cells can be plated onto the
   surface of culture vessels without attachment factors. Alternatively, the vessels can be
   precoated with natural, recombinant or synthetic attachment factors or peptide
   fragments (e. g., collagen, fibronectin, vitronectin, laminin and the like, or natural or
   synthetic fragments thereof), which are available commercially for example from Life
20 Technologies, Corp. (Carlsbad, CA), R&D Systems, Inc. (Rochester, Minnesota),
   Genzyme (Cambridge, Massachusetts) and Sigma (St. Louis, Missouri). Cells can also
   be seeded into or onto a natural or synthetic three-dimensional support matrix such as a
   preformed collagen gel or a synthetic biopolymeric material. For suspension
   cultivation, cells are typically suspended in the culture media described herein and
25 introduced into a culture vessel that facilitates cultivation of the cells in suspension,
   such as a spinner flask, perfusion apparatus, or bioreactor. See Cell Culture Technology
   for Pharmaceutical and Cell-Based Therapies, 156-174 (Sadettin Ozturk and Wei-Shou
   Hu eds., Taylor and Francis Group 2006). In some cases, some level of agitation of the
   media and the suspended cells is necessary. Agitation may be minimized to avoid
30 denaturation of media components and shearing of the cells during cultivation.
              The cell seeding densities for each experimental condition can be optimized
   for the specific culture conditions being used. For routine monolayer culture in plastic
   culture vessels, an initial seeding density of 1-5 x 105cells/cm 2 may be preferable, while
   for suspension cultivation, a higher seeding density (e. g., 5-20 x 105 cells/ml) may be
                                             -34-

   used.
              Mammalian cells are typically cultivated in a cell incubator, preferably at
   about 37 'C, but it could be anywhere between 30'C to 39'C. Non- mammalian cells
   may have other preferred temperatures for cultivation. Cultivation of mammalian and
 5 non-mammalian cells can be done in steps, for instance, at one temperature for optimal
   cell growth, and at another temperature for optimal protein/ peptide/ fragment or virus
   production. The incubator atmosphere may be humidified and may contain about 3-10%
   carbon dioxide in air, more preferably about 5-10% carbon dioxide in air, and most
   preferably about 3-8% carbon dioxide in air, although cultivation of certain cell lines
10 may require as much as 20% carbon dioxide in air for optimal results. Culture medium
   pH may be in a preferred range depending on the cell type, for example of about 6-8.5,
   preferably about 7.1 to 7.6, or preferably about 7.1 to 7.4, or more preferably about 7.1
   to 7.3 or preferably about 6-6.3 for insect cells.
              Cells in closed or batch culture should undergo complete medium exchange (i.
15 e., replacing spent media with fresh media) when the cells reach a density of about 1.5
   2.0 x 106 cells/ml. Cells in perfusion culture (e. g., in bioreactors or fermenters) will
   receive fresh media on a continuously recirculating basis.
              8.      Virus Production
              In addition to cultivation of cells in suspension or in monolayer cultures, the
20 present media may be used in methods for producing viruses from mammalian cells.
   Such methods comprise (a) contacting a cell (e.g., a mammalian cell) with a virus under
   conditions suitable to promote the infection of the cell by the virus; and (b) cultivating
   the cell in the small peptide- or dipeptide-containing cell culture media described herein
   under conditions suitable to promote the production of virus by the cell. The cell may
25 be contacted with the virus either prior to, during or following cultivation of the cell in
   the culture media. Optimal methods for infecting a mammalian cell with a virus are
   well- known in the art and will be familiar to one of ordinary skill. Virus-infected
   mammalian cells cultivated in the culture media described herein may be expected to
   produce higher virus titers (e. g., 2-, 3-, 5-, 10-, 20-, 25-, 50-, 100-, 250-, 500-, or 1000
30 fold higher titers) than cells cultivated in a cell culture media other than the cell culture
   media described herein.
              These methods may be used to produce a variety of mammalian viruses or
   viruses adapted to infect mammalian cells, viral like particles and viral vectors,
   including but not limited to adenoviruses and derivatives thereof, adeno-associated
                                              -35-

   viruses and derivatives thereof, retroviruses and derivatives thereof, lentiviruses and
   derivatives thereof, insect viruses like baculoviruses and derivatives thereof, sendai
   virus and derivatives thereof, and so on. Following cultivation of the infected cells in
   the culture media described herein, the used culture media comprising viruses, which
 5 may be a recombinant virus, viral vectors, viral particles or components thereof
   (proteins and/or nucleic acids (DNA and/or RNA)) may be used for a variety of
   purposes, including vaccine production, production of inhibitory RNA molecules like
   miRNA, siRNA, etc., production of viral vectors for use in cell transfection or gene
   therapy, infection of animals or cell cultures, study of viral proteins and/or nucleic acids
10 and the like. Alternatively, viruses, viral vectors, viral particles or components thereof
   may optionally be isolated from the used culture medium according to techniques for
   protein and/or nucleic acid isolation that will be familiar to one of ordinary skill in the
   art.
              In one embodiment, the cells produce VLPs. "VLPs" or "virus-like particles"
15 are vehicles for delivering one or more compounds, including biological materials such
   as lipids, carbohydrates, proteins and nucleic acids into cells. Other compounds which
   may be delivered with VLPs include dyes (e.g., fluorescent dyes), labels (e.g.,
   fluorescent or radioactive labels), and drugs (e.g., antibiotics or anti-viral agents). VLPs
   generally contain at least one viral protein. Typically, a viral protein surrounds the
20 compounds. However, in particular instances, compounds to be delivered can be
   associated with a VLP by means other than by inclusion in the VLP. For example,
   compounds may be attached (e.g., covalently or non-covalently attached) to a viral
   protein, or can be integrated into the envelope, when present. In one aspect, VLPs may
   be associated with various types of nucleic acids (e.g., heterologous nucleic acids) such
25 as DNA, RNA, both RNA and DNA, or RNA/DNA hybrids, or derivatives known in
   the art. Examples of VLPs include viral particle products produced by using
   VIRAPOWERTM adenoviral and lentiviral vector kits (see, e.g., Invitrogen Corporation,
   cat. nos. K4930-00, K4940-00, K4950-00, K4955-00, K4960-00, K4965-00, K4967-00,
   and K4985-00).
30            Viruses which may be used to prepare VLPs include, for examples, phage,
   (e.g., T even phages (e.g., T4 phage, etc.), T odd phage (e.g., T7 phage, etc.),
   bacteriophage phi29, lambda phage, etc.), baculoviruses, adenoviruses, adeno
   associated viruses, lentiviruses (e.g., Moloney Murine leukemia virus, HIVI, HTLV-III,
   etc.), sendai viruses, pox viruses, and alphaviruses (e.g., Semliki Forest Virus, SindBis
                                             -36-

   Virus, etc.). Additional examples of viruses which may be used to prepare VLPs, as
   well as methods for preparing VLPs are described elsewhere herein.
             9.      Recombinant Protein Production
 5           The present culture media may also be used in methods for the production of
   recombinant proteins from cells described above, preferably mammalian cells, and
   particularly from mammalian cells grown in suspension. Because the present culture
   media provide for rapid, high-density suspension cultivation of mammalian cells, the
   present methods facilitate enhanced production of recombinant proteins. By protein is
10 meant, either, a full-length protein, a protein fragment, a peptide, a cleaved protein
   product, a cross-linked protein product, tagged-peptide or proteins, etc. By protein is
   also meant all types of natural and altered proteins, including recombinant, mutant,
   engineered, chimeric, glycoproteins, lipoproteins, active, processed proteins, etc. The
   protein may be naturally expressed by the cell or cell line, or the cell line may be
15 engineered to express it using standard genetic engineering methods known in the art
   including, but not limited to, transfection, transduction, electroporation, etc. The
   resulting protein or peptide may be purified or isolated to a desired level of purity. The
   proteins or peptides or their fragments, that can be produced or expressed using the
   media and/or feed compositions of the invention include, but are not limited to,
20 extracellular proteins, like laminins, fibronectin, integrins, etc., enzymes like caspases,
   proteases, subtilisin, kinases, RNAses., DNAses, etc., peptide hormones like insulin,
   PTHrP, etc., intracellular proteins including membrane proteins, receptors, nuclear
   proteins, endoplasmic reticular proteins, etc., antibodies, any antibody fragments like
   heavy- or light chains of the antibody, an antigen binding site or motif, a chimeric
25 antibody etc. A chimeric antibody may be a species/species chimera or a class/class
   chimera. The expressed protein or polypeptide that may be produced using the
   compositions and media/ feeds of the invention may be a human or mammalian derived
   protein sequence that is expressed in a non-animal cell line, like a plant cell, in order to
   produce animal origin-free proteins that are free of adventitious agents for downstream
30 use in therapeutics.
             Methods of producing a polypeptide according to the invention comprise
   cultivating a cell (e.g., a mammalian cell) that has been genetically engineered to
   produce a polypeptide in the small peptide- or dipeptide-containing cell culture media
   described herein under conditions suitable for expression of the polypeptide by the cell.
                                             -37-

   Optimal methods for genetically engineering a mammalian cell to express a polypeptide
   of interest are well-known in the art and will therefore be familiar to one of ordinary
   skill. See e.g., Cell Culture Technology for Pharmaceutical and Cell-Based Therapies,
   15-40 (Sadettin Ozturk and Wei-Shou Hu eds., Taylor and Francis Group 2006). Cells
 5 may be genetically engineered prior to cultivation in the media of the invention, or they
   may be transfected with one or more exogenous nucleic acid molecules after being
   placed into culture in the media. Genetically engineered cells may be cultivated in the
   present culture media either as monolayer cultures, or more preferably as suspension
   cultures according to the methods described above. Following cultivation of the cells,
10 the polypeptide of interest may optionally be purified from the cells and/or the used
   culture medium according to techniques of protein isolation that will be familiar to one
   of ordinary skill in the art.
              10.    Detecting Small Peptides in culture media or in concentrated feeds
              The small peptides and dipeptides described herein can be detected using any
15 technique known in the art for detecting amino acids and/or small peptides, including
   but not limited to, acid hydrolysis, liquid chromatography, capillary electrophoresis
   (Brown et al., J. Chrom. (1994) A, 661: 279-285), HPLC (van Wandelen et al., J.
   Chrom. (1997) A, 763: 11-22), or mass spectrometry. Acid hydrolysis of peptides for
   chromatographic analysis of amino acid compositions and concentration is well-known
20 in the art. Comparison of the chromatographic profiles of the amino acid peaks before
   and after acid hydrolysis can indicate the composition and concentration of amino acids,
   and therefore small peptides in a media, feed or supplement. For instance, if tyrosine
   were present in a small peptide in a media, its concentration would increase in the acid
   hydrolysate of the media sample (for e.g., the tyrosine peak height and/or area of the
25 peak) compared to the peak height/ area of the identical media sample before acid
   hydrolysis.
              By way of example, the alanyl tyrosine and alanyl cysteine dipeptides
   described herein were detected using the methodology described in van Wandelen et
   al., J. Chrom. (1997) A, 763: 11-22, which involved the HPLC (High Performance
30 Liquid Chromatograph) separation of 6-aminoquinolyl-N-hydroxysuccinimidyl
   carbamate (AQC) - derivatized amino acid mixtures on an AccQ-Tag UltraTM (Waters
   Corp., Milford, MA) column (2.1 x 100 mm, 1.7 ptm). The detector parameters were set
   as follows: wavelength mode: single wavelength; wavelength: 260 nm; sampling rate:
   20 (points/sec); time constant: 0.4000 (sec). Using these parameters, in an exemplary
                                             -38-

   run, a sample of the alanyl tyrosine dipeptide had a peak elution time of about 6.172
   minutes (see Figure 2), immediately after the internal standard (AABA), and in another
   exemplary run, a sample of the alanyl cysteine dipeptide had a peak elution rate of
   6.631 minutes, between lysine and tyrosine (see Figure 3).
 5            This AccQ-TagTM Ultra (Waters Corp., Milford, MA) Pre-Column
   Derivatization with Ultra High Performance Liquid Chromatograph (UPLC) method,
   thus, provides one way to test any sample media or feed supplement to see if it contains
   a small peptide comprising cysteine or tyrosine, for instance the dipeptides, alanyl
   tyrosine or alanyl cysteine. The same method could also be used to detect other small
10 peptides, including other dipeptides of interest.
               In addition, the dipeptides described herein can also be quantified with liquid
   chromatography with mass spectrometry detection (LC/MS). Separation was performed
   with reverse phase liquid chromatography column (Acquity UPLC* HSS T3 1.8-p[m,
   2.1-mm i.d x 150-mm at 40 0C) coupled to a quadruple time-of-flight mass spectrometer
15 (Waters* SYNAPT TM HDMS T M System, Milford, MA). Perfluorinated carboxylic acid
   (for e.g., perfluoropentanoic acid) was used as the ion pairing agent for optimum
   separation of polar compounds (Jun Qu, Yiming Wang, Guan Luo, Zhuping Wu, and
   Chengdui Yang, Anal. Chem., 2002, 74, 2034-2040; hereby incorporated by reference
   in its entirety). Mobile phase-A was 0.1% formic acid and 0.05% perfluoropentanoic
20 acid in water, and mobile phase-B was 0.l1% formic acid and 0.05% perfluoropentanoic
   acid in 80% acetonitrile. All reagents were LC/MS grade. Ultra-performance liquid
   chromatography (UPLC) gradient was linear over 1-45% of mobile phase-B with a 0.4
   mL/min flow rate for 15 min. Mass spectra was collected every 0.5-sec within 70-1000
   Da in continuum, positive electrospray (+ES), and V-mode. Protonated L-alanyl-L
25 cysteine dimer and protonated L-alanyl-L-tyrosine ions were extracted from total ion
   chromatograms as 383.105 (+0.03) Da and 253.118 (+0.03) Da, respectively. Retention
   times for protonated L-alanyl-L-cysteine dimer and protonated L-alanyl-L-tyrosine ions
   were 9.60 (+0.03) min and 8.75 (+0.03) min, respectively (Figures 4 to 7).
30            Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
   the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. In case
   of conflict, the present specification, including definitions, will control. It will be
   readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant arts that other suitable
   modifications and adaptations to the methods and applications described herein are
                                              -39-

            obvious and may be made without departing from the scope of the invention or any
             embodiment thereof. In addition, the materials, methods, and examples are illustrative
            only and not intended to be limiting. All publications, patent applications, patents, and
            other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.
 5
                              EXAMPLE 1: Production of Dipeptide-Containing Culture Medium
                             An exemplary cell culture medium containing the dipeptides alanyl tyrosine
            (AlaTyr) and alanyl cysteine (which forms a disulfide dimer, [AlaCys]2) was prepared.
             Specifically, the dipeptides, alanyl tyrosine and alanyl cysteine were added as dry
10          powder to an aqueous basal cell culture medium containing glucose and a mixture of
            concentrated amino acids and mixed until dissolved. Alanyl tyrosine was added to the
            cell culture medium at a concentration of about 4.0 g/L. Alanyl cysteine was added to
            the cell culture medium at a concentration of about 3.0 g/L. The observed solubilities
            of the dipeptides in water were determined to be about 15.4 g/L for AlaTyr, > 100 g/L
15           for AlaCys, and about 8.7 g/L for [AlaCys]2 dimer. By way of comparison, the
             solubility of L-Tyrosine in water is about 0.38 g/L at 20'C. Free L-Cysteine is easily
            oxidized into cystine. L-Cysteine hydrochloride is considerably more stable in an
             acidic aqueous solution, but in neutral or alkaline aqueous solutions, it is also converted
            to L-Cystine by aerobic oxidation. The solubility of L-Cystine in water was about 0.11
20          g/L at 25-C.
                              EXAMPLE 2: Fed Batch Testing
                   Integrated fed batch testing was performed using IgG-producing CHO cells grown
   in a basal cell culture medium CD FortiCHOTM (Invitrogen Cat. No. A- 1148301 and Custom
25 Stock A-i 1437DK; Life Technologies Corp., Carlsbad, CA) and supplemented with either
   glucose (CD FortiCHOTM + Glucose; Figure 1: curve with filled squares (-)                      and forward
   slash-filled bar (E) or, with a mixture of concentrated amino acid mixture with low levels of
   cysteine or tyrosine, with glucose + the dipeptide (DP) containing culture medium or feed,
   described in Example 1 (CD FortiCHOTM + aa + DP Feed FP2 and FP3; see Figure 1: (FP2)
30 curve with filled circles ( -*-             ) and unfilled bar (E); (FP3) curve with filled diamonds (*)
   and backward slash-filled bar (M). "aa" in Figure 1 refers to a mixture of concentrated amino
   acid mixture with low levels of cysteine and tyrosine, with glucose.
                              Other basal cell culture media studied were either CD OptiCHOTM, CD CHO;
                                                             -40
   10114543 1 (GHMatters)P91530.AU.3

   all from Life Technologies Corp., Carlsbad, CA (data not shown). The preferred
   medium used was CD FortiCHOTM. Exemplary mixtures of concentrated amino acids
   are, for instance, CHO CD EfficientFeed TM A (Invitrogen Cat. No. A1023401), CHO
   CD EfficientFeed TM B (Invitrogen Cat. No. A1024001), CHO CD Efficient Feed TM kit
 5 (Invitrogen Cat. No. A1024101), CD Efficient Feed TM C AGT TM (Custom Stock A
   11525SA, Life Technologies Corp., Carlsbad, CA). The cysteine and tyrosine
   containing small peptides in the cell culture media or supplemental feeds of the
   invention are designed to be used with any exemplary basal cell culture medium, with
   any exemplary, stoichiometrically-balanced, mixture of concentrated amino acids (aa)
10 optionally with glucose, vitamins, trace elements, etc., suitable for the growth of a
   desired cell type, as can be deemed by one skilled in the art.
              The cells were grown in DasGip bioreactors with 500 mL working volume,
   with a pH control set point of 7.0 +/- 0.05 and a p02 control set point of 30%. CHO
   cells supplemented with glucose were automatically fed 3 g/L of glucose whenever the
15 glucose level reached 2 g/L. CHO cells supplemented with dipeptides (DP) were
   subjected to two feeding schedules. In the first feeding schedule (see Figure 1, red
   curve and bar: FP2), CHO cells were fed 2% of the dipeptide-containing medium daily
   from day 4 to day 13. In the second schedule, (see Figure 1, green curve and bar: FP3),
   CHO cells were fed 2% of the dipeptide-containing medium daily from day 5 to day 14.
20            Cells grown in CD FortiCHOTM medium and supplemented with glucose had
   comparable or better IgG productivity (1600 mg/L) than CD Opti CHOTM (Life
   Technologies, Corp., Carlsbad, CA) or CD CHO (Life Technologies, Corp., Carlsbad,
   CA Carlsbad, CA) based fed-batch processes (data not shown). CHO cells grown in
   CD FortiCHOTM and supplemented with the concentrated amino acids and the
25 dipeptide-containing medium of Example 1 had improved viability after 12 days and
   doubled productivity levels, with an IgG titer of about 3200 mg/L by day 15, as
   compared to an IgG titer of about 1600 mg/L for CD FortiCHOTM + Glucose at day 15
   (Figure 1). Of the two feeding schedules for CD FortiCHOTM + aa + Dipeptide (DP)
   Feed, both worked well and showed comparable levels of IgG production. The FP3
30 profile had a better maintained glucose level and a more constant level of IgG
   production than FP2, while the FP2 profile promoted a higher peak cell density.
   Notably, the dipeptide-containing cell culture medium yielded enhanced cell density
   and productivity levels at a significantly reduced volumetric feed proportion, providing
   yet another advantage of using the dipeptide-containing cell culture medium described
                                             -41-

   herein.
             A liquid cell culture medium or feed solution containing the dipeptides alanyl
   tyrosine and alanyl cysteine can be stored at 2-8'C, has remained precipitate free for
   over 10 months, thus demonstrating significantly longer liquid stability than expected
 5 for such a concentrated solution.
             All patents, patent applications, and published references cited herein are
   hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. While this invention has been
   particularly shown and described with references to preferred embodiments thereof, it
   will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details
10 may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by
   the appended claims.
     The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent
   Application No. 2011242496 is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present
   application.
15
                                            -42-

    The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1.      A cell culture medium comprising:
                i.  a peptide having six or fewer amino acids, wherein at least one of said amino
  5                 acids comprises cysteine; and,
               ii.  a peptide having six or fewer amino acids, wherein at least one of said amino
                    acids comprises tyrosine.
    2.      A cell culture medium according to claim 1, which is serum-free.
10
    3.      A cell culture medium according to claim 1 or 2, in which the remaining amino acid is
    selected from the group consisting of the twenty amino acids.
    4.      A cell culture medium according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the cell
15  culture medium supports increased cell growth, increased cell viability or increased
    recombinant protein or virus production compared to a cell culture medium not containing
    said peptides.
    5.      A cell culture medium according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
20  medium is at a neutral pH.
    6.      A cell culture medium according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
    medium is a liquid, a dry powder or a granulated dry powder.
25  7.      A cell culture medium according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
    peptide concentrations in said medium are between 1 g/L to 16 g/L.
    8.      A cell culture medium according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the liquid remains
    precipitate-free for over 12 months at 2-8'C.
30
    9.      A method of preparing a cell culture medium comprising combining:
                i.  a peptide having six or fewer amino acids, wherein at least one of said amino
                    acids comprises cysteine;
                                                   -43-

              ii.   a peptide having six or fewer amino acids, wherein at least one of said amino
                    acids comprises tyrosine; and,
             iii.   a carbohydrate and at least one amino acid or salt thereof
 5 10.      A method of preparing a cell culture medium according to claim 9, further comprising
   at least one of the following: a vitamin, a salt, a buffering agent, an inorganic element and
   optionally, an animal-origin free peptide.
   11.      A method of preparing a cell culture medium according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the
10 cell culture medium is added to a fed-batch culture, a bioreactor or a fermenter.
   12.      A kit for the cultivation of a cell in vitro, said kit comprising one or more containers,
   wherein a first container comprises a cell culture medium according to any one of claims 1 to
   8, and wherein the cell culture medium supports increased cell growth, increased cell
15 viability or increased recombinant protein or virus production compared to a cell culture
   medium not containing said peptides.
   13.      Use of a cell culture medium according to any one of claims 1 to 8, or a kit according
   to claim 12, for culturing a cell, and/or to produce a recombinant protein or a virus, wherein
20 said cell is selected from the group consisting of an eukaryotic cell, an animal cell, an insect
   cell, a nematode cell, a mammalian cell, a CHO cell, a COS cell, a VERO cell, a BHK cell,
   an AE-1 cell, a SP2/0 cell, a L5.1 cell, a PerC6 cell and a hybridoma cell.
   14.      A eukaryotic cell culture system comprising a cell culture medium according to any
25 one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the cell culture system supports increased cell growth, increased
   cell viability or increased recombinant protein or virus production compared to a cell culture
   system not containing said cell culture medium.
   15.      A method of culturing a eukaryotic cell, comprising contacting the cell with a cell
30 culture medium comprising:
               i.   a peptide having six or fewer amino acids, wherein at least one of said amino
                    acids comprises cysteine; and,
              ii.   a peptide having six or fewer amino acids, wherein at least one of said amino
                    acids comprises tyrosine,
                                                     -44-

    wherein the cell culture medium supports increased cell growth, increased cell viability or
    increased recombinant protein or virus production compared to a cell culture medium not
    containing said peptides.
  5 16.     A method of culturing a eukaryotic cell, comprising contacting the cell with a basal
    medium and a feed, the feed comprising:
                i.  a peptide having six or fewer amino acids, wherein at least one of said amino
                    acids comprises cysteine; and,
               ii.  a peptide having six or fewer amino acids, wherein at least one of said amino
10                  acids comprises tyrosine,
    wherein addition of the feed to the basal medium supports increased cell growth, increased
    cell viability or increased recombinant protein or virus production compared to basal medium
    without said peptides.
15  17.     A method according to claim 16, wherein the basal medium is supplemented with the
    feed on more than one day.
    18.     A method according to claim 16 or 17, wherein the supplementation volume due to
    said feed is about 1-10% volume of the total culture volume.
20
    19.     A method according to any one of claims 14 to 18, wherein the eukaryotic cell is an
    animal cell, a plant cell, an insect cell, an avian cell, a yeast cell, an algal cell, or a fish cell.
    20.     A method according to any one of claims 15 to 19, wherein the peptide is selected
25  from the group consisting of: a dipeptide, a tripeptide, a tetrapeptide, a pentapeptide, and a
    hexapeptide.
    21.     A method according to any one of claims 15 to 20, wherein the protein is an
    immunoglobulin or a fragment thereof.
30
    22.     A method according to claim 21, wherein the immunoglobulin or the fragment thereof
    is produced at a concentration of greater than 3000 mg/L.
                                                     -45-

  23.     A cell culture medium according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the peptide is
  selected from the group consisting of: a dipeptide, a tripeptide, a tetrapeptide, a pentapeptide,
  and a hexapeptide.
5 24.     A cell culture medium according to any one of claims 4 to8, wherein the recombinant
  protein is an immunoglobulin or a fragment thereof
  25.     A cell culture medium according to claim 24, wherein the immunoglobulin or the
  fragment thereof is produced at a concentration of greater than 3000 mg/L.
                                               -46-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
