 5                                     Abstract
   A battery monitoring system 10 comprises a battery measurement unit (BMU)
   12 for measuring an operating parameter of one or more battery cells in a
10 battery bank 14. Typically a plurality of battery measurement units (BMUs) 12
   are employed for monitoring a corresponding plurality of battery banks 14.
   The BMU 12 generates a measurement signal for each battery cell 16 in the
   battery bank 14, and is adapted to be networked with one or more similar
   battery measurement units (BMUs) 12', 12", etc. The system 10 further
15 comprises a central controller 20 networked with the BMU 12 for monitoring
   the condition of each cell 16 in the battery bank 14 based on the
   measurement signal. The central controller 20 processes the measurement
   signal and generates an alarm if necessary to alert an operator of a possible
   faulty battery cell. The central controller 20 is preferably connected to a
20 Human Machine Interface (HMI) 22 and to the Internet 24. By connecting the
   central controller 20 to the Internet the monitoring information for each of the
   battery cells in the battery bank 14 can be made available worldwide.
   Drawing suggested to accompany the Abstract: Figure 1

     '10
                                                 2z
                                HMI
             PLC                                         Internet                          cInter
                    20                2                                              SCADA
                      z                                                   Mobile     System
      1       Fiedbs Network            Fieldbus Network
                                                                  CPhone
                 1z~2 I                                                                    30
      Batter                   Batr                        Battery
       Measrmn                 Measurement          --     Measurement
                               Unit 2                      Unit n
      Unit 1
 16attery Bank 1              Bater Bank 2                 Battery Bank n
           @  Fi     Amplifier
                     isolated                                   Mtiico                 Network
                     differential                 Buffer          naaogel Controller   Interface
                                 AmplfierDigital
16                                                              Converter
                                  -ii
                                    15.2.

                                       ORIGINAL
                                    AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
Invention title:
        "ELECTRONIC MONITORING OF
                      BATTERY BANKS"
Applicant:
         Megatronic Power Systems Pty Ltd
Associated Provisional Application No.: <removed-apn>
The following statement is a full description of the invention, including the best
method of performing it known to me:

                                           2
               "ELECTRONIC MONITORING OF BATTERY BANKS"
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to a battery monitoring system and method and
   relates particularly, though not exclusively, to a battery monitoring system for
 5 monitoring a lithium-ion battery bank.
   Background to the Invention
   In Australia renewable energy sources are becoming more popular due to the
   high cost of electricity from the grid. Battery storage systems allow a
   household to store electricity from the grid when prices are lowest, (during
10 off-peak periods) and to draw power from battery storage (rather than the
   grid) during the most expensive peak time, so as to minimise overall
   electricity costs. Battery storage of electrical power has also become more
   popular with the increased reliance on renewable energy sources, such as
   solar and wind power. Battery storage can overcome the problem of
15 intermittency of supply. Batteries also permit excess renewable energy to be
   stored and returned to the gird. The market for reliable battery storage banks
   is also predicted to increase with the uptake of more electric cars.
   Lithium-ion batteries are particularly popular for battery storage banks as an
   alternative to traditional lead-acid batteries, because of their improved
20 lifetime (number of charge/discharge cycles); reduced footprint and weight;
   and low maintenance. The cost of lithium-ion batteries is expected to
   decrease as more suppliers come onto the market. When using lithium-ion
   batteries in a battery bank an effective battery monitoring system (BMS) is
   especially important as lithium-ion batteries are particularly sensitive to
25 over/under voltage conditions. If a single cell in a lithium-ion battery bank
   fails, it can destroy the whole bank. External battery balancing is also
   required to maintain a consistent state of charge (SOC), as lithium-ion cells
   are not self-balancing and the cells do not maintain balance over many
   charge/discharge cycles.

                                          3
   Many prior art BMSs exist which are designed to address this requirement.
   However most of these prior art systems monitor the battery bank as a whole
   and do not provide information about individual cells in the bank. Other
   systems provide protection for each cell, but do not monitor the cell or
 5 provide information about each cell to a central controller in the BMS.
   The present invention was developed with a view to providing a battery
   monitoring system and method that monitors each cell in a battery bank and
   provides detailed information about each cell to a central controller in the
   system.
10 References to prior art in this specification are provided for illustrative
   purposes only and are not to be taken as an admission that such prior art is
   part of the common general knowledge in Australia or elsewhere.
   Summary of the Invention
15 According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a battery
   measurement unit (BMU)         for a battery monitoring system, the BMU
   comprising:
   a plurality of isolated measurement channels, each channel being adapted to
   measure the applied voltage between -Vch to +Vch (where Vch is the peak
20 voltage measurement for each channel) of a battery cell wherein, in use, the
   BMU measures an operating parameter of one or more battery cells in a
   battery bank and generates a measurement signal for each cell in the battery
   bank, the BMU being adapted to be networked with one or more similar
   battery measurement units (BMUs) in the battery monitoring system.
25 Preferably the BMU        also provides the value of the applied voltage
   measurements as a combination of the channels.
   Typically each channel of the BMU comprises an isolated differential
   amplifier and buffer, and is connected to a multichannel analog to digital

                                           4
   converter   (ADC).   Preferably the     multichannel ADC     is coupled to a
   microcontroller which is, in turn, connected to a network interface card.
   According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   battery monitoring system comprising:
 5 a battery measurement unit (BMU) for measuring an operating parameter of
   one or more battery cells in a battery bank and generating a measurement
   signal for each cell in the battery bank, the BMU being adapted to be
   networked with one or more similar battery measurement units (BMUs); and,
   a central controller networked with the BMU for monitoring the condition of
10 each cell in the battery bank based on the measurement signal, processing
   the measurement signal and generating an alarm if necessary to alert an
   operator of a possible faulty battery cell.
   Preferably the BMU is provided with a plurality of isolated measurement
   channels, each channel being adapted to measure the applied voltage
15 between -Vch to +Vch (where Vch is the peak voltage measurement for
   each channel).
   Advantageously the BMU also provides the value of the measurements as a
   combination of the channels.
   Typically each channel of the BMU comprises an isolated differential
20 amplifier and buffer, and is connected to a multichannel analog to digital
   converter   (ADC).   Preferably the     multichannel ADC     is coupled to a
   microcontroller which is, in turn, connected to a network interface card.
   Preferably the BMU is one of a plurality of BMUs employed in the system.
   Preferably the central controller is programmed with an algorithm for
25 calculating the state of charge (SOC) of each cell in the battery bank.
   Preferably the SOC algorithm comprises a charge accumulator or coulomb
   counter for each battery cell in the battery bank. Advantageously the SOC
   algorithm calculates an internal resistance of each battery cell, calculates a

                                            5
   charge stored in each battery cell, and calculates an internal battery cell
   voltage.
   Preferably the central controller processes the measurement signal using the
   SOC algorithm in a timely manner in order to be able to correctly calculate
 5 the charge stored in each battery cell. Preferably the central controller
   processes the measurement signal using the SOC algorithm every second.
   Advantageously the central controller processes the measurement signal
   using the SOC algorithm simultaneously for all battery cells in the battery
   bank.
10 Preferably the central controller measures the internal resistance of each
   battery cell using the SOC algorithm every time there is a spike detected in
   the current. The central controller will generate an alarm if the calculated
   resistance is higher than an expected resistance for any cell.
   Preferably the central controller also uses SOC algorithm to calculate a
15 standard deviation for the internal voltage of the battery cells and generates
   an alarm if the standard deviation for one or more of the cells is outside an
   expected range.
   According to a still further aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells in a battery bank, the method
20 comprising:
   measuring an operating parameter of one or more battery cells in the battery
   bank and generating a measurement signal for each cell;
   monitoring the condition of each cell in the battery bank based on the
   measurement signal, by processing the measurement signal and generating
25 an alarm if necessary to alert an operator of a possible faulty battery cell.
   Preferably the step of processing the measurement signal employs an
   algorithm for calculating the state of charge (SOC) of each cell in the battery
   bank. Preferably the SOC algorithm comprises a charge accumulator or
   coulomb counter for each battery cell in the battery bank. Advantageously the

                                           6
   SOC algorithm calculates an internal resistance of each battery cell,
   calculates a charge stored in each battery cell, and calculates an internal
   battery cell voltage.
   Preferably the step of processing the measurement signal using the SOC
 5 algorithm is performed in a timely manner in order to be able to correctly
   calculate the charge stored in each battery cell. Preferably the step of
   processing the measurement signal using the SOC algorithm is performed
   every second.
   Advantageously the step of processing the measurement signal using the
10 SOC algorithm is performed simultaneously for all battery cells in the battery
   bank.
   Preferably the SOC algorithm determines if the cell voltage is less than a low
   voltage setting or greater than a high voltage setting, and sets the charge
   accumulator to 0% or 100% accordingly. Typically the SOC algorithm then
15 calculates a charge stored in each cell. Advantageously the SOC algorithm
   detects whether or not a current spike has occurred, and if so calculates the
   internal resistance of each battery cell. An alarm is preferably generated if
   the calculated resistance is higher than an expected resistance for any cell.
   Preferably the SOC algorithm is also used to calculate a standard deviation
20 for the internal voltage of the battery cells and an alarm is generated if the
   standard deviation for one or more of the cells is outside an expected range.
   Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
   "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
25 understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but
   not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers. Likewise the word
   "preferably" or variations such as "preferred", will be understood to imply that
   a stated integer or group of integers is desirable but not essential to the
   working of the invention.

                                           7
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   The nature of the invention will be better understood from the following
   detailed description of several specific embodiments of battery monitoring
 5 system and method, given by way of example only, with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
         Figure 1 is schematic diagram of a first embodiment of a battery
         monitoring system and method according to the present invention;
         Figure 2 is functional block diagram of a preferred embodiment of a
10       battery measurement unit (BMU) employed in the battery monitoring
         system and method of Figure 1; and,
         Figure 3 is a flowchart of a preferred embodiment of a state of charge
         (SOC) algorithm employed in the battery monitoring system and method
         of Figure 1.
15
   Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
   A preferred embodiment of battery monitoring system 10 in accordance with
   the invention, as illustrated in Figures 1 to 3, comprises a battery
   measurement unit (BMU) 12 for measuring an operating parameter of one or
20 more battery cells in a battery bank 14. In the illustrated embodiment the
   system 10 compromises a plurality of battery measurement units (BMUs) 12
   for monitoring a corresponding plurality of battery banks 14. The BMU
   generates a measurement signal for each battery cell 16 in the battery bank
   14, and is adapted to be networked with one or more similar battery
25 measurement units (BMUs) 12', 12", etc.
   The system 10 further comprises a central controller 20 networked with the
   BMU 12 for monitoring the condition of each cell 16 in the battery bank 14
   based on the measurement signal. The central controller 20 processes the
   measurement signal and generates an alarm if necessary to alert an operator
30 of a possible faulty battery cell. The central processor typically comprises an

                                            8
   industrial controller or Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) 20. The PLC 20
   is preferably connected to a Human Machine Interface (HMI) 22 and to the
   Internet 24. By connecting the PLC 20 to the Internet the monitoring
   information for each of the battery cells in the battery bank 14 can be made
 5 available worldwide. The PLC 20 is thereby also able to send an SMS alert to
   a mobile phone 26 and emails to a personal computer 28, if required.
   A wide range of industrial graphical user interfaces (GUls) can be used to
   display important monitoring information about the system 10. This is only
   possible because a central controller or PLC 20 has been utilised in the
10 proposed system. The monitoring information includes alarms, battery status,
   measurements, trends and diagnostic details. The HMI 22 also allows the
   use of mimics and animation rather than numerical display for ease of
   operation and maintenance. It is also possible to configure the type of the
   batteries and their manufacturer specific parameters (setpoints) like cut-off,
15 cut-in voltages, overcharge alarm voltage, low voltage alarm setting, etc.
   The system 10 is easily configurable and very flexible. It can be readily
   monitored using any supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
   system 30 and software or HMI device without any requirement for
   uncommon drivers and therefore minimises the cost of integration and
20 engineering time.
   The BMU 12 is typically an in house designed module with internal electronic
   functional blocks as illustrated in Figure 2. Preferably the BMU 12 is provided
   with a plurality of isolated measurement channels, each channel being
   adapted to measure the applied voltage between -Vch to +Vch (where Vch is
25 the peak voltage measurement for each channel) of a battery cell 16.
   Typically each channel of the BMU 12 comprises an isolated differential
   amplifier 32 and a buffer 34, and is connected to a multichannel analog to
   digital converter (ADC) 36. Preferably the multichannel ADC 36 is coupled to
   a microcontroller 38 which is, in turn, connected to a network interface card
30 40. Typically the BMUs 12 are networked together and to the PLC 20 via a
   fieldbus network as shown in Figure 1. Fieldbus refers to a family of industrial

                                           9
   computer network protocols used for real-time distributed control, which has
   been standardized by the IEEE as IEC 61158.
   It will be seen therefore that the networking follows that of a typical complex
   automated industrial system that employs a distributed control system. In
 5 such a system there is usually a HMI at the top, which an operator can use to
   monitor or operate the system. The HMI is typically linked to a middle layer of
   PLCs via a communications system e.g. Ethernet, and at the bottom of the
   control chain is the fieldbus that links the PLCs to the components that
   actually do the work, in this case the BMUs 12.
10 In the illustrated embodiment, the fieldbus network use Modbus, a serial
   communications protocol originally published by Modicon (now Schneider
   Electric) in 1979 for use with its PLCs. Modbus has since become a de facto
   standard communications protocol, and it is now wisely used for connecting
   industrial electronic devices.
15 Advantageously each BMU 12 also provides the value of the measurements
   as a combination of the channels. In this way the same BMU can be used for
   higher voltage measurements. For example, considering the fieldbus network
   is using Modbus, the sum of channels 1 and 2 of a BMU 12 will be accessible
   in a memory area. Therefore by placing a physical link between the negative
20 terminal of channel 1 and the positive terminal of channel 2 the combined
   channel is capable of measuring voltages between -2Vch and +2Vch. The
   measurement for all meaningful combinations of the channels can be
   presented in memory area, so that for a 12 channel BMU up to ±12Vch can
   be measured with a single combined channel. This provides the flexibility to
25 use the same BMU for higher voltages, while keeping the accuracy for the
   battery measurements.
   To avoid draining the batteries the BMU 12 preferably employs an external
   power source and will not be powered up through the batteries directly. If the
   system is being powered up from batteries it is recommended to install a
30 contactor to turn off the system when a deep discharge situation occurs.

                                            10
   In an alternative embodiment, instead of the described BMU, a type of off
   the-shelf analog 10 with isolated channels can be used.
   Preferably the central controller or PLC 20 is programmed with an algorithm
   100 for calculating the state of charge (SOC) of each cell in the battery bank.
 5 Preferably the SOC algorithm or software block comprises a charge
   accumulator or coulomb counter for each battery cell 16 in the battery bank
   14. Advantageously the SOC algorithm 100 calculates an internal resistance
   of each battery cell, calculates a charge stored in each battery cell, and
   calculates an internal battery cell voltage.
10 Figure 3 is a flowchart for the SOC algorithm or software block 100 preferably
   employed in the PLC 20. The PLC 20 preferably employs this algorithm to
   determine the battery charge condition of each cell. To minimise the size of
   the code, it is preferred to use a processor that is able to use functional
   blocks, arrays of different types and constants.
15 To enhance the flexibility of the system a constant, NOC, is specified to
   represent the number of cells. Then the constant NOC can be used in the
   code to size the arrays. For example:
   If NOC = 8 (this means that only 8 cells are connected to the system)
   Voltage [1..NOC] of real (this defines an array of 8 floating point variables for
20 the voltage, since NOC is defined to be 8)
   This method of coding also ensures that the software can be customised to
   the number of the battery cells, before shipping the system to the customer,
   by changing the value of the NOC constant.
   The SOC algorithm 100 is at the heart of the battery monitoring system. This
25 software block is used to measure and analyse the state of each of the
   battery cells 16. Although every battery monitoring system has a SOC block
   of sorts the present SOC algorithm 100 has several unique features.
   The SOC algorithm 100 preferably has a charge accumulator or coulomb
   counter for each battery cell. This is particularly important for lithium-ion

                                              11
   batteries where charge current is almost equal to discharge current.           It is
   easier to have an array of charge accumulators of NOC dimensions (NOC is
   a constant representing the number of cells) as shown in Figure 3.
   As an example of the software code for each coulomb counter in the SOC
 5 algorithm 100 is as follows:
   ACCUM[1..NOC] of Dint
   Void SOC(void){
   For i=1 to NOC DO       /do this for all cells
   ACCUM[i]= ACCUM[i]+CURRENT[i];              /add scaled current to the accumulator
10  / calculate the internal resistance
   // calculate the charge in percentage
   // calculate the internal battery cell voltage
   Endfor;      /end of for loop
   }
15 While(1) { / infinity loop
   Call SOC);
   }         /go back to start of the infinity loop
   Referring to Figure 3, the SOC algorithm 100 determines if the cell voltage is
   less than the low voltage setting or greater than high voltage setting at steps
20 102 and 106 respectively, and sets the charge accumulator to 0% or 100%
   accordingly at steps 104 and 108 respectively. It then calculates the charge
   stored in each cell at step 110. At step 112 it detects whether or not a current
   spike has occurred, and if so calculates the internal resistance of each
   battery cell at step 114. For example, a spike in the current will typically occur
25 if the battery cell switches from charging state to discharging or the battery

                                              12
   load changes suddenly. The central controller will generate an alarm if the
   calculated resistance is higher than an expected resistance for any cell.
   The charge accumulator is updated at step 116, by adding or subtracting the
   calculated charge from the previous charge state, and the current values for
 5 cell currents and voltages are saved at step 118.
   At step 120 the SOC algorithm also calculates the standard deviation for the
   internal voltage of the battery cells and generates an alarm if the standard
   deviation for one or more of the cells is outside an expected range. This
   alarm will be used to identify the probable faulty cell to be replaced in the
10 next maintenance service schedule, and thereby avoid costly replacement of
   the whole battery bank.
   To find the fault module the standard deviation needs to be calculated as:
           (Voltage[1] - p) 2 + (Voltage[2] - 1)2+ --
                               NOC
   Where:
         Voltage[1] + Voltage[2]+
15                    NOC
   If the voltage of any cell is detected at step 122 to fall outside the s.±5     6
   range, that means that particular cell is acting oddly and it will raise an alarm
   for that cell at step 124.
20 The SOC algorithm also raises an alarm for each cell if the cell voltage is
   higher or lower than the appropriate set points.
   At step 126 the counter 'i' is updated, and the SOC algorithm 100 restarts at
   step 102. Preferably the central controller processes the measurement
   signals using the SOC algorithm in a timely manner in order to be able to
25 correctly calculate the charge stored in each battery cell. Preferably the
   central controller processes the measurement signals using the SOC
   algorithm once every second.

                                             13
   Advantageously the central controller processes the measurement signals for
   all battery cells in the battery bank simultaneously using the SOC algorithm.
   In another words, there is no need to have multiple blocks for each cell. This
   improves the efficiency of the coding for the SOC software block 100.
 5 Now that a preferred embodiment of the battery monitoring system and
   method has been described in detail, it will be apparent that the described
   embodiment provides a number of advantages over the prior art, including
   the following:
       1)    It provides a battery monitoring solution that is fully compatible with
10           almost all industrial sites and SCADA systems.
       2)    It eliminates the need for unnecessary site visits, increases the
             reliability of the system and decreases the cost of maintenance
       3)    The use of a PLC as the central controller enables it to deploy highly
             complex algorithms to detect the faults or possible issues within the
15           battery bank.
       4)    The system is easily configurable and very flexible. It can be readily
             monitored using any SCADA software or HMI device without any
             requirement for uncommon drivers, and therefore minimises the cost
             of integration and engineering time.
20     5)    The BMU can measure the voltage for combined channels and thus
             the same BMU can be used for higher voltages.
       6)    High degree of compatibility with existing monitoring systems on
             almost all industrial sites.
       7)    It employs smarter algorithms to detect issues and provides more
25           information for maintenance and diagnosis.
       8)    More efficient installation due to use of fieldbus network.
   It will be readily apparent to persons skilled in the relevant arts that various
30 modifications      and     improvements    may   be    made    to  the foregoing
   embodiments, in addition to those already described, without departing from

                                        14
   the basic inventive concepts of the present invention. Therefore, it will be
   appreciated that the scope of the invention is not limited to the specific
   embodiments described.
 5
10

                                           15
 5
   The Claims defining the Invention are as follows:
   1. A battery measurement unit (BMU) for a battery monitoring system, the
   BMU comprising:
10 a plurality of isolated measurement channels, each channel being adapted to
   measure the applied voltage between -Vch to +Vch (where Vch is the peak
   voltage measurement for each channel) of a battery cell wherein, in use, the
   BMU measures an operating parameter of one or more battery cells in a
   battery bank and generates a measurement signal for each cell in the battery
15 bank, the BMU being adapted to be networked with one or more similar
   battery measurement units (BMUs) in the battery monitoring system.
   2. A BMU as defined in claim 1, wherein the BMU also provides the value of
   the applied voltage measurements as a combination of the channels.
   3. A BMU as defined in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein each channel of the BMU
20 comprises an isolated differential amplifier and buffer, and is connected to a
   multichannel analog to digital converter (ADC).
   4. A BMU as defined in claim 3, wherein the multichannel ADC is coupled to
   a microcontroller which is, in turn, connected to a network interface card.
   5. A battery monitoring system comprising:
25 a battery measurement unit (BMU) for measuring an operating parameter of
   one or more battery cells in a battery bank and generating a measurement
   signal for each cell in the battery bank, the BMU being adapted to be
   networked with one or more similar battery measurement units (BMUs); and,
   a central controller networked with the BMU for monitoring the condition of
30 each cell in the battery bank based on the measurement signal, processing

                                           16
   the measurement signal and generating an alarm if necessary to alert an
   operator of a possible faulty battery cell.
   6. A battery monitoring system as defined in claim 5, wherein the BMU is
   provided with a plurality of isolated measurement channels, each channel
 5 being adapted to measure the applied voltage between -Vch to +Vch (where
   Vch is the peak voltage measurement for each channel).
   7. A battery monitoring system as defined in claim 6, wherein the BMU also
   provides the value of the applied voltage measurements as a combination of
   the channels.
10 8. A battery monitoring system as defined in claim 6 or claim 7, wherein each
   channel of the BMU comprises an isolated differential amplifier and buffer,
   and is connected to a multichannel analog to digital converter (ADC).
   9. A battery monitoring       system as defined in claim 8, wherein the
   multichannel ADC is coupled to a microcontroller which is, in turn, connected
15 to a network interface card.
   10. A battery monitoring system as defined in any one of claims 5 to 9,
   wherein the BMU is one of a plurality of BMUs employed in the system.
   11. A battery monitoring system as defined in any one of claims 5 to 10,
   wherein the central controller is programmed with an algorithm for calculating
20 the state of charge (SOC) of each battery cell in the battery bank.
   12. A battery monitoring system as defined in claim 11, wherein the SOC
   algorithm comprises a charge accumulator or coulomb counter for each
   battery cell in the battery bank.
   13. A battery monitoring system as defined in claim 12, wherein the SOC
25 algorithm calculates an internal resistance of each battery cell, calculates a
   charge stored in each battery cell, and calculates an internal battery cell
   voltage.

                                            17
   14. A battery monitoring system as defined in any one of claims 11 to 13,
   wherein the central controller processes the measurement signal using the
   SOC algorithm in a timely manner in order to be able to correctly calculate
   the charge stored in each battery cell.
 5 15. A battery monitoring system as defined in claim 14, wherein the central
   controller processes the measurement signal using the SOC algorithm every
   second.
   16. A battery monitoring system as defined in claim 14, wherein the central
   controller processes the measurement signal using the SOC algorithm
10 simultaneously for all battery cells in the battery bank.
   17. A battery monitoring system as defined in claim 13, wherein the central
   controller measures the internal resistance of each battery cell using the
   SOC algorithm every time there is a spike detected in the current.
   18. A battery monitoring system as defined in claim 17, wherein the central
15 controller will generate an alarm if the calculated resistance is higher than an
   expected resistance for any cell.
   19. A battery monitoring system as defined in claim 18, wherein the central
   controller also uses the SOC algorithm to calculate a standard deviation for
   the internal voltage of the battery cells and generates an alarm if the
20 standard deviation for one or more of the cells is outside an expected range.
   20. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells in a battery bank, the
   method comprising:
   measuring an operating parameter of one or more battery cells in the battery
   bank and generating a measurement signal for each cell; and,
25 monitoring the condition of each cell in the battery bank based on the
   measurement signal, by processing the measurement signal and generating
   an alarm if necessary to alert an operator of a possible faulty battery cell.

                                           18
   21. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells as defined in claim 20,
   wherein the step of processing the measurement signal employs an
   algorithm for calculating the state of charge (SOC) of each cell in the battery
   bank.
 5 22. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells as defined in claim 21,
   wherein the SOC algorithm comprises a charge accumulator or coulomb
   counter for each battery cell in the battery bank.
   23. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells as defined in claim 20,
   wherein the SOC algorithm calculates an internal resistance of each battery
10 cell, calculates a charge stored in each battery cell, and calculates an internal
   battery cell voltage.
   24. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells as defined in claim 20,
   wherein the step of processing the measurement signal using the SOC
   algorithm is performed in a timely manner in order to be able to correctly
15 calculate the charge stored in each battery cell.
   25. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells as defined in claim 24,
   wherein the step of processing the measurement signal using the SOC
   algorithm is performed every second.
   26. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells as defined in claim 24,
20 wherein the step of processing the measurement signal using the SOC
   algorithm is performed simultaneously for all battery cells in the battery bank.
   27. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells as defined in claim 22,
   wherein the SOC algorithm determines if the cell voltage is less than a low
   voltage setting or greater than a high voltage setting, and sets the charge
25 accumulator to 0% or 100% accordingly.
   28. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells as defined in claim 27,
   wherein the SOC algorithm then calculates a charge stored in each cell.

                                           19
   29. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells as defined in claim 28,
   wherein the SOC algorithm detects whether or not a current spike has
   occurred, and if so calculates the internal resistance of each battery cell.
   30. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells as defined in claim 29,
 5 wherein an alarm is generated if the calculated resistance is higher than an
   expected resistance for any cell.
   31. A method of monitoring a plurality of battery cells as defined in claim 30,
   wherein the SOC algorithm is also used to calculate a standard deviation for
   the internal voltage of the battery cells and an alarm is generated if the
10 standard deviation for one or more of the cells is outside an expected range.
   Dated this 5 th day of December 2017
15 Megatronic Power Systems Pty Ltd
   by its Patent Attorneys
   WRAYS

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
