ABSTRACT
Cooking pot for a food processor, food processor and method for the production of a heating
element
The invention provides a cooking pot for a food processor, a method for manufacturing a
heating element of such cooking pot and a food processor with such cooking pot.
The cooking pot comprises a heating element which in turn comprises a heating means for
generation of heat and a heat exchanger with a heat-absorbing side and a heat-emitting side,
the heat exchanger being in particular circular disk-like. The heat emitting side is arranged for
heating of food stuff in a kitchen machine, such as the food processor, whilst the heat
absorbing side is arranged to be heated by the heating mean. The heat exchanger has an
opening for a stirrer. Further, the heat exchanger comprises at the heat emitting side a first
functional layer, particularly for contacting the food. Further, the heat exchanger comprises at
least on some parts thereof a metallic heat conduction layer which is arranged with the first
functional layer in such manner that the heat generated from the heating means is
transferable in planar manner over the entire contact areas from the heat conduction layer to
the first functional layer.
Fig. 8

                  4/5
                              2
      3             50
              153           27
  20                            21
                                23
14                                22
                       51 1
     54 )\15
              Fig. 8
        201.1
                                     201
 203.1
     E1                               203
  202.                                202
               Fig. 9

                                               1
Cooking pot for a food processor, food processor and method for the production of a heating
element
1A.     Cross-Reference and Inclusion of Earlier Patent Applications
This application claims Paris convention priority from German patent application DE 10 2016
125 678.1 dated 23 December 2016 and European patent application EP 17169946.5 dated
<removed-date>, of the entire contents of the patent specifications thereof is included herein by
way of shorthand cross-reference.
1.      Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to a cooking pot for a food processor, a food processor,
and a method for the production of a heating element for a cooking pot.
2.      Background of the Invention
For heating of food, diverse devices for the use in a kitchen are known. Thus, for example
different kinds of pots are known in which food can be heated by subjecting the pot to heat
from the outside. In order to ensure such a passive heat conduction to the food,
different materials for the pot are known, wherein such pots however normally only work with
an external heating source like, for example a stove.
A further type of kitchen devices comprise food processors. Food processors, which will
hereinafter also termed kitchen machines, unite in general a plurality of functions for
preparing food such that for a user this preparation is facilitated. For cooking or heating of
food, some food processors comprise an active heating arrangement through which heat is
generated. In comparison to a normal pot, however, such food processors are subject to
differing requirements. Thus, on the one hand, the heating of food in a kitchen machine
should occur as precisely as possible, and on the other hand diverse further functions
and components within the food processor have to be taken into account during the design
of the heating arrangement.
A heating element for a food processor is for example known from patent document EP 1
274 333 Al. A heating means is arranged underneath a plate such that food located above
the plate can be heated. Such heating elements already comply with different requirements
which are demanded of these. For future requirements, for which the electronics of the
food processor play an increasing importance, the accuracy requirements as regards the
temperature treatment and/or the temperature measurement are increasing such that there is
room for optimization of existing products.

                                                 2
Against this background, it would be advantageous to provide a food processor (ie a kitchen
machine) with improved, even heat distribution and/or temperature measuring capabilities. It
would be equally advantageous to provide a solution that is cost efficient and simple to
implement in a food processor.
3.      Summary of the Invention
According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a cooking pot for a food
processor, the cooking pot comprising a heating element. The heating element comprises a
heating means for generation of heat and a heat exchanger with a heat-absorbing side and a
heat-emitting side, the heat exchanger being in particular circular disk-like. The heat emitting
side is arranged for heating of food stuff in the kitchen machine, whilst the heat absorbing
side is arranged to be heated by the heating mean. The heat exchanger has an opening for a
stirrer. Further, the heat exchanger comprises at the heat emitting side a first functional layer,
particularly for contacting the food. Further, the heat exchanger comprises at least on some
parts thereof a metallic heat conduction layer which is arranged with the first functional layer
in such manner that the heat generated from the heating means is transferable in planar or
sheet-like manner from the heat conduction layer to the first functional layer.
The food processor is preferably suitable for a semi-automatic or automatic preparation of
food. Particularly, the heat appliance can be configured multifunctional such that the food
processor can perform multiple functions for preparing food. Thus, both a heating and stirring
of the food can be performed by the food processor, in particular automatically. Further, the
food processor can be configured for heating water by the heating element using further
attachments such that a steam cooking above the heating element is possible. The heating
means is thereby particularly actively heated. Thus, the heating means can for example
comprise a thick film heater, an induction heater, a fluid heater with heating tubes which
allow fluid to pass or a radiation heater with active heat conductors. The heat exchanger
is further configured such that heat is transferred from the heating means to the food.
The heat exchanger can be configured in domed or flat fashion. Thus, the heat exchanger
can be fitted into the bottom of the cooking pot and/or provide the bottom of the cooking
pot. Particularly, the cocking pot and at least the first functional layer can be manufactured
from the same material, thus facilitating welding of the components to one another.
Consequently, the cooking pot can comprise stainless steel. Further, the heat exchanger can
comprise a particularly circumferential edge at its outer side, which is preferably configured
collar-like. The edge of the heat exchanger can thereby serve to attach the heating element
at the cooking pot of the food processor.
Preferably, the heat exchanger can be configured disk-like. The heat exchanger can

                                                3
first functional layer and the heat conducting layer. Particularly, the heat exchanger can be
configured circular such that the heat exchanger can at least mainly configure a circular disk.
The heat exchanger can be further configured such that the diameter of the heat emitting side
is greater than the sum of the layer thicknesses of the first functional layer and the heat
conducting layer in order to enable a favorably production method and at the same time to
limit the axial construction space. Between the first functional layer and the heat conducting
layer an intermediate space with a distance, particularly of up to 10 mm can be provided,
wherein preferably an air filled space or a vacuum can be provided between the first
functional layer and the heat conducting layer. Particularly, the intermediate space between
the heat conducting layer and the first functional layer can be filled with a heat conducting
paste in order to further improve the heat conductivity. Further, the functional layer and the
heat conducting layer can be configured by contacting one another, particularly completely
such that a direct heat conduction is provided. The first functional layer has a heat
conductivity particularly different to the heat conducting layer, wherein the heat conducting
layer preferably comprises a higher heat conductivity than the first functional layer. The
metallic heat conducting layer is particularly defined such that it comprises a metal or
completely consists from metal.
The first functional layer can be preferably from metal. Particularly, the first functional layer
can for example comprise a steel, particularly a stainless steel, plastic and/or glass. The first
functional layer can fulfill diverse functions. Thus, at the first functional layer, food can be
heated directly. Further, the first functional layer can be configured decoratively such
that a design of the utensil bottom of the cooking pot of the food processor results. Further,
the surface of the heating element can comprise an additional coating suitable for foodstuffs
at the heat emitting side of the heat exchanger. Further, it is possible to arrange, for the
acceptance of food, an additional intermediate bottom at the heat exchanger above the first
functional layer of the heat exchanger, either directly abutting it or spaced apart form it. The
heating element according to the invention is preferably arranged at the bottom side of the
cooking pot. Particularly an arrangement at the bottom side is to be understood as an
arrangement whereby food can be heated from below and/or that the heating element is
arranged outside a lid of the cooking pot. A cooking pot can be a container in which food is
heatable, for example, up to the respective cooking temperature                and/or simmering
temperature. The cooking pot can therefore be suitable for the acceptance of fluids wherein
the heating element can preferably configure the bottom side of the cooking pot.
The heat conducting layer can be configured as a rigid body and for example comprise a
precious metal like silver and/or gold. Particularly preferred, the heat conducting material of
the heat conducting layer comprises copper and/or aluminium, or the heat conducting
layer consists of copper and/or aluminium. These materials are easily available and at the

                                                 4
Advantageously, a separation of the heat exchanger results in a heat conducting and
functional layer such that advantageously heat conducting properties of the heat conducting
layer can be combined with other advantageous properties of the first functional layer. Thus,
the first functional layer can provide for weldability, a reduction of the electric conductivity
or the like. At the same time, the heat conducting layer provides for an at least partial
deflection of the heat within the heating element to positions with a local high heat
requirement on the heat emitting side. This achieves an improved even temperature
distribution, particularly in transverse direction of the heating element. Particularly, the
temperature distribution is homogenized. Further, the heating means can be configured small
by the improved temperature distribution such that costs can be saved and for example more
construction space is provided for sensors, wherein again an even more precise temperature
controlling can be achieved. Further, dynamic heat distribution can be improved. Thus,
spatially unevenly distributed food can result in local heat differences, particularly during
stirring, at the heat element, which can be compensated faster by an improved heat
distribution. The improved temperature controlling and/or temperature measurement in the
heating element or in the area at the heating element provides the possibility to exactly
control an ideal cooking point of the foods, such that the food preparation quality is improved.
Within the scope of the invention it can further be provided that the heat conducting layer is
arranged between the fist functional layer and a second functional layer. In such case, the
heat conducting layer can be arranged sandwich-like between the first functional layer and
the second functional layer. By using a second functional layer on the side of the heat
conducting layer opposing the first functional layer, additional preferable properties can be
combined in the heat exchanger. Thus, weldability of the heating element in the cooking
pot of the food processor can further be improved in that this is possible to do this on both
sides. Thereby, a sealing of the heating disk with the cooking pot can be improved such that
no contaminations will be collected in the intermediate space at the connecting point. The
weldability and the therewith possible sealing also enable to reduce the requirements as
regards tolerance values of the maximum diameter of the heat exchanger, such that a cost
efficient production is further favored. The sandwich-like configuration of the heat exchanger
enables realization of a safe connection through pressing of the single layers in a cost
efficient manner. Particularly, the sandwich-like arrangement enables the heat conducting
layer to be in direct contact with the first and the second functional layers. Preferably, a third
or further functional layer can be incorporated, whereby initially two functional layers can be
arranged at the heat-absorbing side and/or the heat emitting side of the heat conducting
layer. Thereby, further preferable properties can be integrated into the heat exchanger.
Preferably, the ratio of the diameter of the heat emitting side of the heat exchanger to the
overall thickness of the heat exchanger with the heating means can be between 10 and 250.

                                                 5
heating means perpendicular to the heat emitting side. Such a ratio of diameter of the heat
emitting side to overall thickness of the heat exchanger with the heating means of the heat
element can have the advantage that a temperature is homogeneously transferred from the
heating means to the heat emitting side and at the same time a cost-efficient production is
possible, for example by the use of plates, particularly metal plates.
A cooking container according to the invention can further be devised such that the first
and/or second functional layers are suitable for foodstuffs. For this purpose, the first and/or
second functional layer can comprise stainless steel or be made from stainless steel. A
configuration suitable for foodstuff within the scope of the present invention means that the
first and/or second functional layer should be made from materials neutral to taste and
particularly innocuous for humans following intake of food which was in contact with the
first   and/or second functional layer. Preferably, a configuration suitable for foodstuff is
also one that will ensure that the foods do not discolor through contact with the first or
second functional layer. Due to the vicinity to the food it is particularly an advantage when the
first functional layer is configured with the above considerations in mind. Thereby, a small
influence of the material on the taste can be completely or almost completely prevented. A
particularly preferred stainless steel is an at least partially ferritic stainless steel. This also
enables cost-efficient production, and at the same time provides for sufficient rigidity with
small thermal expansion. This also enables an arrangement providing direct contact of the
foodstuffs with the first and/or second functional layer, obviating the need for an
intermediate bottom. This also enables improvement of the accuracy of temperature
measurement and temperature control of the heating means for heating of the foodstuffs.
Preferably, the first and/or second functional layer can be configured from one material.
This bears the advantage that less different materials have to be managed or sourced,
which leads to improved cost-efficient production of the heating element.
Within the scope of the invention it can further be provided that the opening is arranged in
the center of the heat exchanger and/or that the heat exchanger is configured disk-like. The
term opening can include a recess. Particularly, the opening is configured to extend
continuously through the heat exchanger and the heating means. In such case, where the
configuration of the heat exchanger is that of a circular disk, the opening can be arranged
centrally. The stirrer can comprise at least one rotary knife and/or at least one whisk. By
providing a central arrangement of the opening, the stirrer can thus mix the food particularly
evenly or keep the food in movement. The term drive means can for example comprise a
bolt or a fastening means. The drive means can be configured to be rotatable with respect to
the heating element, such that the food can be moved by the stirrer on the heat emitting side
of the heat exchanger. Further, the opening can be configured such that a front face of the
oMenina is coated. The term front face of the oMenina is understood to mean an inner surface

                                                6
provision of an additional corrosion protection for an inner heat conducting layer. Preferably,
the coating of the front face can be configured suitable for foodstuffs. Thus, the coating of
the front face can be configured for example from one material with a first and/or second
functional layer. By providing the opening, a drive of the stirrer can be arranged below the
heating element and therewith enable a direct contact of the heating element with the food
and at the same time ensure a reliable stirring without the stirrer minimizing the filling region
of the cooking vessel. Additionally or alternatively, a protective body can be seated into the
opening in order to achieve a protection of the heat conductive layer within the opening,
particularly at the circumferential surface of the opening. Thus, the protective body can for
example comprise stainless steel in order to provide a corrosion protection for the heat
conductive layer. Preferably, the protective body can comprise a bushing. According to this
aspect of the invention, the opening prevents or interrupts heat conductivity in the center of
the heat exchanger. This can be particularly desired since at the center of the heating disk,
where small relative speed is exerted by the stirrer on the stirred food, burning of food can
be prevented given that heat transfer at the center of the heat exchanger is reduced and not
the same as at the periphery of the heating disk.
Preferably, with a cooking pot according to the invention, it can be provided that a layer
thickness of the first functional layer corresponds to between 30% and 70%, preferably
between 40% and 60%, particularly preferred approximately 50%, of a layer thickness of the
heat conducting layer. This enables a transmission thickness of the heat exchanger of the
heating element to be proportioned to 25% for the first functional layer, 50% for the heat
conducting layer and 25% for the second functional layer. Thereby, the transmission
thickness can be particularly a maximum measure of the heat exchanger in a perpendicular
direction. Analogue to the layer thickness of the first functional layer, a layer thickness of the
second functional layer can correspond to between 30% and 70%, preferably between 40%
and 60%, and particularly preferred approximately 50% of a layer thickness of the heat
conducting layer. Such ratios have proven to be particularly advantageous in order to enable
a particularly homogeneous temperature distribution and to enable a reliable function of the
first and/or second functional layer at the same time. Preferably, the heating element can
comprise an overall thickness of below 5 mm, preferably of below 2 mm. Thereby, the weight
can be positively influenced by a reduction of the outer layer thickness of the heating
element, which provides a favorable center of gravity for the cooking pot and further to
ensure a comfortable lifting.
Within the scope of the invention it is further foreseen that the heating element can be a
heating layer which is directly arranged at the heat conducting layer or the second functional
layer. The heating layer can thereby comprise a dielectric in order to electrically isolate an
electric component of the heating means from the heat exchanger. A dielectric can thus

                                                 7
conductive. This measure enables arrangement of an electric component of the heating
means at the heat exchanger without the necessity for configuring the heat conducting layer
or the second functional layer to be electrically isolating. Thereby, a more flexible choice of
material can be implemented, which takes account of further functions like, for example,
weldability or heat conduction, and therewith can be better coordinated for the respective
function. Further, the heat conductibility of the heat conducting layer can be increased by a
suitable choice of material. Preferably, the dielectric can thereby comprise a temperature
dependent electric resistance, wherein particularly the dielectric comprises a cold conductor
material, ie a PTC-resistance, or a hot conductor material, ie a NTC-resistance. PTC (positive
temperature coefficient) denotes a positive temperature coefficient and NTC (negative
temperature coefficient) denotes a negative temperature coefficient of the material. In a
cold conductor material, the electric resistance of the dielectric increases with an increasing
temperature. Where the food is heated by the heating means, the resistance of the
dielectric also increases, so that an additional protective effect is achievable against the
current supply of the heating means and/or other electric components. In a hot conductor
material, the electric resistance of the dielectric decreases with increasing temperature.
Consequently, at a low temperature, particularly at the point of time of high current at make
(switch-on current), an even higher electric resistance can be existent than during
subsequent operation of the heating means, and particularly at certain operating points,
protection can be increased as relates to the current supply and/or the lifespan of the heating
means. By configuring the heating means as a heating layer, particularly construction space
can be saved since these are configured with small height. Particularly, in the bottom area of
the cooking pot this is important since further components, like for example drive means, are
advantageously arranged there.
In a further embodiment according to the invention, the cooking pot will have a heating means
which comprises at least a first resistance element which is wired and/or inductively arranged
to be supplied with current for the generation of heat. In this case, a dielectric can be
arranged at least over a part of the first resistance element. Particularly, the first resistance
element can be surrounded at least partially by the dielectric. The resistance element can
thereby be a wire loop or a bobbin. Thus, for example, the first resistance element together
with the dielectric can be configured to provide the heating layer. In such case, the resistance
element can be controllable preferably by a control unit. Further, the temperature regulation
of the heating means can be realized in that the resistance element is configured such that it
can be switched on and off in a predetermined frequency. In order to ensure a cost-efficient
and at the same time reliable isolation of the dielectric, the dielectric can comprise enamel.
Preferably, the enamel will be understood to be a material which comprises a glass
flow, silicates and/or oxides. Preferably, the enamel can include a cold conductor material

                                                 8
or a hot conductor material or be configured as a cold conductor material or a hot conductor
material. For a wired configuration of the first resistance element, the first resistance element
can comprise a connecting means through which the first resistance element is connectable
with a voltage source. By means of the dielectric, which can be preferably configured as an
enamel, further particularly with a correspondingly configured layer thickness, a good heat
connectivity can be achieved, with fast reaction times and therewith fast retrieving of the
available heating capabilities of such arrangement. Further, the dielectric can be positively
connected with a second functional layer, particularly wherein the dielectric is vapor coated.
A good processability provides a further advantage of use of the enamel for such fastening
alternative. Further, the enamel enables small layer thicknesses and therewith a small
construction space of the heating element. While inductive energizing has the advantage that
a separate connecting means is not necessary, a wired configuration has the advantage
of less electromagnetic emissions and an exact robust controlling of the heating means and
therewith the temperature setting can be enabled.
Preferably, the heating layer can comprise a protective element which is arranged at the
heating means, particularly on the opposing side of the dielectric. Further, the protective
element can comprise a glass layer. Thus, for example, the first and/or the second resistance
element can be protected by a protective element from environmental influences like
mechanical damage and/or oxidation at least on one side. Further, the protective element
may serve to prevent touching of the heating means.
In a further embodiment of the invention, the cooking pot's heating means may comprise a
second resistance element which can be supplied with current independently from the first
resistance element. Thereby, the second resistance element can be arranged with a
dielectric, particularly be surrounded by a dielectric. The second resistance element provides
a second electric circuit, whereby temperature regulation is improved. In case this is realized,
for example, by switching on and off of the resistance elements, provision of a second or
further resistance elements enables the use of a higher frequency without this negatively
influencing the power grid to which the food processor is connected, for example. Further,
the accuracy with the temperature regulation can be improved thereby. Preferably, the ratio
of the area B, which is directly heated by the resistance element or elements, in relation to
the surface A of the heat-absorbing side of the heat exchanger, amounts preferably to
between 30% < B/A < 100%, preferably B/A > 70%. The area heated actively by the
resistance element or elements is an area of the heat exchanger which particularly directly
abuts at the resistance element(s), particularly with a dielectric.
Within the scope of the invention, it is possible to arrange at least one first sensor
element at the heat exchanger. The first sensor element can be configured for detecting

                                                 9
particularly a bimetal sensor, a cold or hot conductor or a semiconductor temperature
sensor. Thereby, a control of the heating means can be improved. Particularly, a local
controlling of the heating means, for example when multiple heating elements are provided,
can be enabled. Further, thereby the cooking temperature can be monitored even better
since the heat generation can be directly measured at the heat exchanger and therewith an
influence of the heat-absorbing of the foods can be taken into account. Therewith, a
preparation quality of the food can further be improved.
In a preferred embodiment of a cooking pot according to the invention, the first functional
layer of the heat exchanger provides a bottom area of the cooking space of the cooking pot.
For the improvement of the heat exchanger, the first functional layer of the heat conduction
layer can be arranged below wherein the heat conducting layer is preferably arranged
between the first functional layer and the second functional layer. For the generation of
heat, the heating means can be arranged particularly below the heat exchanger directly at
the second functional layer. Preferably, the dielectric is positively connected with the second
functional layer of the heat exchanger, particularly wherein the dielectric is vapor coated on
the second functional layer. Within the dielectric and/or below the dielectric, the first and the
second resistive element can be arranged, particularly wherein the first and the second
resistive element is at least partially completely enclosed by the dielectric. By such a
configuration, a cost efficient production of the heat element and therewith the whole cooking
pot results. Further, an extensive construction of the heating element can be achieved, such
that at the cooking pot a constructional space for further components can be provided.
Particularly, by such a configuration, a subfloor space of the cooking pot which is not usable
as a cooking space can be kept small.           At the same time, heat exchange can            be
improved by the previously described construction.
According to a further aspect of the invention, a food processor with a cooking pot and a drive
for a stirrer is provided. The cooking pot is thereby configured according to one of the
various cooking pot embodiments according to the first aspect of the invention, as described
above. Preferably, the drive can be connected with a drive means such that the stirrer can
be arranged for example within the cooking pot while the drive can be arranged below the
cooking pot. Thereby, preferably the drive means can be guided through the opening of the
heat exchanger such that the drive can be arranged below the heating element outside the
cooking space of the cooking pot, particularly at the same time a stirring by a stirrer in the
cooking space can be provided. The drive can preferably be configured as an electric drive
such that for example for the drive and the heating means the same current source can be
useable. Therewith, the food processor according to the invention comprises the same
advantages like they are already described in detail in relation to the heating element
according to the invention.

                                                  10
According to a further aspect of the invention, a method for the production of a
heating element for a cooking pot for a food processor is provided. The method comprises
at least the following steps:
        a) providing a heat exchanger comprising the following steps:
                 -      providing a metallic heating plate and at least one first functional
                        plate, wherein the heating plate and the first functional plate comprise
                        at least one forming area, respectively;
                 -      connecting of at least the forming area of the heat conduction plate
                        with the forming area of the first functional plate, resulting in a heat
                        conduction layer and at least one first functional layer with a heat
                        emitting side, particularly for contacting of food, such that heat is
                        transferable two-dimensionally across the entire contact areas from the
                        heat conducting layer to the first functional layer; and
         b) arranging a heating means at the heat exchanger.
The cooking pot is particularly a cooking pot with a heating element according to the
embodiments of the first aspect of the invention as previously described. The food processor
is preferably a food processor according to the invention like previously described. A heat
conducting plate and a first functional plate are understood to be a plate-shaped raw material
which comprises a corresponding feed material. Thus, the heat conducting plate can
preferably comprise a material which has a higher heat conductivity than the material of the
first functional plate. A forming area within the scope of the invention is an area which is
suitable for being processed to build the heat exchanger. Thus, it can be configured
sufficiently great (extensive) in order to ensure a diameter of the heat emitting side of the
heat exchanger. It is particularly not necessary that the forming area be separately
marked. Therewith, each area of the heat conducting plate and/or the first functional plate
can    serve    as a forming      area,  particularly as far as       respective area  comprises

                                                  11
the necessary properties like for example size, material surface, a combination of the before
mentioned or suchlike. Thereby, only single forming areas or plates can be completely
connected. Therewith, a method according to the invention for the production of a heating
element comprises the same advantages like they are described in detail in relation to the
heating element of a cooking pot according to the invention. Thereby, a cost-efficient
possibility is provided to produce a heat element and therewith a cooking pot for a food
processor.
In accordance with a further method embodiment according to the invention, in providing the
heat exchanger according to step a), it further comprises providing of a second functional
plate which comprises a further forming area which is connected with the forming areas of the
heat conducting layer and the first functional plate such that a second functional layer of the
heat exchanger is configured. Thereby, the forming area of the heat conducting plate can be
arranged sandwich-like between the forming areas of the first and second functional plates.
In order to incorporate a third or a further functional layer, one can provide and connect the
respective forming areas of a third or further functional plates. Providing of the second
functional plate enables integration of a further positive property in the heat exchanger, such
as for example enabling the heat exchanger to be weldable from both sides with a sandwich
like arrangement in order to be connected with the cooking pot.
The method according to the invention may further comprise the following additional step of:
         c)    arranging of at least one first sensor element on the first and/or second
               functional layer, particularly wherein the second sensor element is arranged
               such that a temperature distribution is detectable.
Thereby, a temperature and/or temperature distribution can be detected in a simple and cost
efficient manner, wherein the good heat conductivity of the heat conducting layer within the
use of the temperature distribution can at least partially be homogenized and therewith a sole
sensor element can be sufficient for example at the second functional layer in order to
determine     a reliable   temperature    distribution. The accuracy of the controlling     and
measurement can thus be overall improved.
Within the scope of the invention as far as the method is concerned, providing the heat
exchanger       according    to  step    a)    can    further comprise    the   following  step:

                                                  12
        -     separating of the forming area from the heat conducting plate and the first
               and/or second functional plate, particularly wherein separation of the forming
               areas from the heat conducting plate and one of the functional plates or both
               functional plates is provided at the same time.
During the separation step, a deformation of the forming areas can be performed at the
same time such that the separation can occur in the same method step like a deformation in
order to adjust the heat exchanger, for example, to the bottom geometry of the cooking pot.
The separation of the forming areas can preferably be performed by a stamping process. A
stamping process is a stamping or fine cutting or suchlike. Particularly, further forming areas
can be separated from further functional layers from the respective plate within this method
step. Thus, a holding down device in the stamping process can be used to provide a
deformation in the forming areas. Additionally or alternatively, it is possible that the stamping
process comprises a progressive tooling. Further, the separation of the single forming areas
or the forming areas separately from the heat conducting plate and/or the functional plates is
provided or the separation can be provided after the connection of the forming areas or a
complete connection of the plates. Therewith, a simple progressive tooling results which is
subsequently suitable for a simple joining method. Thus, disk-like or plate-like components
can be particularly advantageously processed particularly automatized by a stamping
method. Thereby, a separation of the forming areas can result at the same time in a
particularly high accuracy during the production of the heating element.
It is possible that the arrangement of the heating means at the heat exchanger comprises a
pressing of the heating layer, particularly by screen printing to the heat exchanger. The
pressing of the heat layer can preferably comprise the application of a first and/or a second
resistance element, wherein preferably previous to the application of the first and/or second
resistance element at least area wise a dielectric is arranged at the heat exchanger. Likewise,
the arrangement of the dielectric can thereby be performed by pressing for example using
screen printing or by a spraying process. Therewith, advantages result that the heating
means can be arranged, particularly cost-efficient, particularly automized and with a high
accuracy at the heat exchanger. Further, the pressing is suitable as a manufacturing
process, particularly for the layered elements like for example a configuration of a heating
means as a heating layer, particularly as a thick film heating.
It can be further provided that with the method according to the invention the connection of
the forming area comprises a pressing of the forming areas. Thereby, a thickness of the
forming areas can decrease. Therewith, the pressing can preferably comprise plating

                                                  13
  and/or a rolling of the forming areas. Further, the connecting of the forming areas can
  comprise a heating of the forming areas, wherein the heating is preferably performed up to a
  temperature which is below the melting temperature of the involved materials. Thereby, a
  solid bond can be achieved. In case the thickness of the forming areas decreases, from an
  existing plate a wider plate can be achieved by a plastic deformation and at the same time a
  solid bond can be created which comprises a reliable rigidity in operation.
  Within the scope of the invention it is further foreseen that, in providing the heat exchanger
  according to step a), the further following step is performed:
           - providing an opening in the heat exchanger.
A heat exchanger produced in this manner provides for an opening through which at least one
part of the stirrer of a food processor can be introduced. Thereby, the heat exchanger to be
produced is particularly suitable for the application in a food processor, particularly a food
processor with which a part of the stirrer is passaged or can be passaged at the bottom side
to the heating element. Preferably, the provision of the opening can be performed in the
same tool and/or at the same time with the separation of the form area from the heat
conduction plate and the first and/or second functional plate particularly preferred during the
same working step. Thus, it is for example possible that the opening and the forming areas are
cut in a cutting method particularly in the same stroke or that the cutting method is
performed in a film compound tool wherein the forming areas and the openings are cut one
after the other.
Preferably, the method can be performed in the shown order of the method steps. It can be
initially provided that the heat conducting plate and the first functional plate and/or the second
functional plate are provided and subsequently the forming areas of the plates are connected
and subsequently a separation occurs. Likewise, it can be provided that the steps are
performed in another order such that for example initially the plate is provided, the forming
areas a separated from the plate and subsequently the forming areas are connected such that
the heat exchanger results. Further, it is possible that the provision of the plate and the
connecting of the plate can be performed at the same time. Thus, the method can be for
example an additive manufacturing method, particularly a three dimensional print. Further,
single or all steps of the method can be repeated as far as it is technically meaningful. As a
manufacturing method for the production of a heating means for a cooking pot for a kitchen
application the method is therewith further suitable to advantageously produce at least a part
of a food processor, particularly a previous described food processor, in a simple manner.
Further features and details which are described in relation to the a cooking pot according to
the invention naturally also aDDlv in relation to the food Drocessor accordina to the invention

                                                 14
and the method according to the invention and vice versa, such that according to the
disclosure of the single aspects of the invention can always be reciprocally related to.
Further, measures improving the invention result from the subsequent description and some
embodiments of the invention which are schematically shown in the figures. All features and/or
advantages from the description and the drawings including constructive details, spatial
arrangement and method steps can be form part of the invention individually or in any
combination. Thereby, it has to be taken into account that the figures only have descriptive
character and are not intended to limit the invention.
4.      Brief Description of the Drawings
Fig.1   shows a heating element for a cooking pot according to the invention from a lower side
in a perspective schematic view in a first embodiment,
Fig. 2 shows a heating element for a cooking pot according to the invention of the first
embodiment in a sectional schematic view,
Fig. 3 shows a heating element for a cooking pot according to the invention in a sectional
schematic view in a further embodiment,
Fig. 4 shows a heating element for a cooking pot according to the invention in a sectional
schematic view in a further embodiment,
Fig.5   shows a cooking pot according to the invention with a heating element in a further
embodiment in a sectional partial view,
Fig.6   shows a cooking pot according to the invention with a heating element in a sectional
schematic view in a further embodiment,
Fig.7   shows a cooking pot according to the invention with a heating element in a sectional
schematic view in a further embodiment,
Fig.8   shows a food processor according to the invention with a cooking pot according to the
invention with a heating element in a further embodiment,
Fig.9   shows a schematic view of a provision of a heat exchanger of a method according to
the invention in a further embodiment, and

                                                  15
Fig.10 shows a method according to the invention a schematic view of the method steps in a
further embodiment.
 5.              Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
  In the subsequent figures for the same technical features even in different embodiments the
 same reference signs are used. In the present figures, particularly a layer thickness of the
 shown layers is only schematically shown. The food processor 2 to which it is related in the
 subsequent embodiments is shown exemplary in figure 8.
  Figure 1 shows a heating element 1 for a cooking pot 3 according to the invention for a food
  processor 2 in a perspective schematic view in a first embodiment. Thereby, the heating
 element 1 comprises a heating means 10 which is arranged at a heat-absorbing side 20.1 of
 a heat exchanger 20. The heat exchanger 20 further comprises a metallic heat conducting
  layer 23 which is arranged sandwich-like between the first functional layer 21 and the second
 functional layer 22. Thereby, the first functional layer 21 configures at the same time a heat
 emitting side 20.2 of the heat exchanger 20 which is contactable with food. Preferably, the
 first functional layer 21 can be configured suitable for foodstuffs. Thereby, a first functional
  layer 21 can for example comprise stainless steel or be made from stainless steel. The heat
 conducting layer 23 is further, particularly configured from a metal which comprises a higher
  heat conductivity than the first functional layer 21. Preferably, the heat conducting layer 23
 comprises copper and/or aluminium. The heating means 10 is further configured as a heating
  layer and comprises a first resistance element 12 and a second resistance element 13 with a
 dielectric 11 which is arranged at least partially between the resistance elements 12, 13 and
 the heat exchanger 20. The dielectric 11 is thereby configured to prevent an electric contact
  between the resistance element 12, 13 and the second functional layer 22 to prevent or to at
  least partially reduce an electric contact between the resistance element 12, 13 and the
 second functional layer 22 such that the heating means 10 is arranged, particularly directly at
 the heat exchanger 20. In order to enable a wired current supply the first resistance element
  12 and the second resistance element 13 can comprise connecting means 14 which are
 suitable for a connection at the control unit 54 (like for example shown in an embodiment
 according to figure 8) and/or at a voltage source. Within the heating layer further at least a
 first sensor 15 and/or a second sensor 16 are arranged for the determination of the local
 temperature. Thereby, that the heat conducting layer 23 facilitates a homogeneous
 temperature distribution the temperature measurement can thus be improved.
  Figure 2 shows a heating element 1 for a cooking pot 3 according to the invention for a food
  processor 2 of the first embodiment in a sectional view. Thereby, it becomes clear that the
 first resistance element 12 and the second resistance element 13 are at least partially

                                                 16
comprises an opening 27 which is arranged centrally of the heat exchanger 20. Further, the
opening 27 extends through the heating means 10 such that for example a drive means 51
can be passed through (like for example shown in the embodiment according to figures 7
and 8). Preferably, a layer thickness 22.1 of the first functional layer 21 can correspond to
between      30%   and 70%,     preferably   between 40%      and   60%,  particularly preferred
approximately 50% of the layer thickness 23.1 of the heat conducting layer 23. Further,
analogous the layer thickness 22.1 of the second functional layer 22 can correspond to
between 30%        and 70%,     preferably   between 40%      and   60%,  particularly preferred
approximately 50% of the layer thickness 23.1 of the heat conducting layer 23. Accordingly,
an overall distribution of a transmission thickness 20.4 of the heat exchanger 20 of the
heating element 1 can thus result with which the layer thickness 20.1 of the first functional
layer 21 amounts to 25% of the transmission thickness 20.4 the layer thickness 23.1 of the
heat conducting layer 23 50% and the layer thickness 22.1 of the second functional layer 22
approximately 25%. Thereby, a maximum diameter 20.3 of the heat emitting side 20.2 can
be in a relation to an overall thickness 1.1 of the heating measurement 1 of 10 to 250. In
order to improve a protection of the heat conducting layer 23 for environmental conditions it
can be intended that a front face 27.1 of the opening 27 is coated. Additionally or
alternatively for the coating of the front face 27.1 a protective body can be provided, which is
introduced into the opening in order to achieve a protection of the heat conduction layer 23.
Preferably the protective body can be configured as a bushing. Preferably the coating can be
configured from one material with a first and/or the second functional layer 21, 22.
Figure 3 shows a heating element 1 for a cooking pot according to the invention for a food
processor 2 in a further embodiment in a sectional schematic view. Thereby, a heat
exchanger 20 of the heating element 1 comprises a first functional layer 21 and a metallic
heat conducting layer 23, wherein the heat conducting layer 23 is preferably configured from
a material which comprises a higher heat conductivity than the first functional layer 21. At the
first functional layer 21 the heat exchanger 20 comprises further a heat emitting side 20.2
and at the heat conducting layer 23 a heat-absorbing side 20.1. Thereby, the heat-absorbing
side 20.1 is configured to receive heat which is generable by a heating means 10. The
heating means 10 is further arranged at the heat-absorbing side 20.1 of the heat exchanger.
Thereby, the heating means 10 comprises a first and a second resistance element 12, 13,
wherein between the first and second resistance element 12, 13 and the heat connecting
layer 23 of the heat exchanger a dielectric 11 is applied layer-wise. Preferably, the
dielectric 11 can comprise enamel. The enamel can further comprise a cold conducting
material or heat conducting material or be configured as a cold conducting material or heat
conducting material such that the resistance of the dielectric 11 comprises preferably a
temperature depended electric resistance. Thereby, a safety of the heating element 1 and
therewith the cooking pot 3 can be increased, particularly during the current supply of the

                                                 17
Figure 4 shows a heating element 1 for a cooking pot 3 according to the invention for a food
processor 2 which is shown sectionally schematically in a further embodiment. Thereby, the
heating element 1 comprises a heat exchanger 2 for exchanging heat which is generable by
a heating means 10. In order to generate heat the heating means 10 comprises a first
resistance element 12 and a second resistance element 13 which can be supplied with
current and generate heat by an electric resistance. The resistance elements 12, 13 are
arranged with a layer-wise dielectric 11 at the heat-absorbing side 20.1 of the heat
exchanger 20. In order to exchange heat from the heat-absorbing side 20.1 to a heat emitting
side 20.2 of the heat exchanger 20, the heat exchanger 20 of the embodiment of figure 4
comprises four layers, wherein at the heat emitting side 20.2 initially a first functional layer 21
is arranged which is contacted with a metallic heat conducting layer 23 and below the heat
conducting layer 23 a second functional layer 22 and a further functional layer 24 are
provided. The heating element 1 further comprises an opening 27 which is provided
centrically. By the further functional layer 24 besides the functions of the first and the second
functional layer 21, 22 in contrast to the first embodiment further different functions can be
combined in the heat exchanger in that a handy choice of material is selected. Thus, for
example a further electric can be embedded in the further functional layer 24. Preferably,
further a ratio of a maximum diameter 20.3 of the heat exchanger 20, particularly on the heat
emitting side 20.2 of the heating element 1 can amount to an overall thickness 1.1 of the
heat exchanger 20 with the heating means 10 of the heating element 1 between 10 and 250.
Figure 5 shows a cooking pot 3 according to the invention for a food processor 2 which
comprises a heating element 1 at the bottom side of the cooking pot 3 on the opposing side
of the filling opening 3.1. Thereby, the heating element 1 and the bottom side of the cooking
pot 3 comprise an opening 27 which is configured to accept a drive means 51 of a stirrer (like
shown for example in the embodiment according to figure 8). Further, the heating element 1
is at least at a first functional layer 21 of the heat exchanger 20 of a heating element 1
connected via a circumferential welding seam 28. The heat exchanger 20 thereby comprises
a first functional layer 21 which is arranged with a distance 20.6 to a metallic heat conducting
layer 23 such that generated heat from a heating means 10 is transferable extensively from
the heat conducting layer 23 to the first functional layer 21. In order to ensure a connection
between the first functional layer 21 and the heat conducting layer 23 further attachment
points 25 can be provided which bridge the distance 26.1 between the first functional layer
21 and the heat conducting layer 23. This can for example be a punctual welding or an
additional heating means. Below the heat conducting layer 23 further with a distance 26.2 a
second functional layer 22 is arranged which configures a heat-absorbing side 20.1 of the
heat exchanger 20. Likewise the distance 20.6 between the heat conducting layer 23 and the
second functional layer 22 can at least comprise an attachment point 25. Between the first

                                                  18
and the heat conducting layer 23 for example a heat conducting paste or air be provided in
order to improve a heat conduction via the respective distance 26.1, 26.2. Likewise, the
second functional layer 22 can be connected with the cooking pot 3 via a circumferential
welding seam 28. The heating means 10 which is configured to emit heat at a heat-absorbing
side 20.1 of the heat exchanger 20 further comprises a resistance element 12 which is
arranged with a dielectric 11 at the heat exchanger 20.
Figure 6 further shows a cooking pot 3 according to the invention for a food processor 2
which is arranged at the bottom side. Thereby, the heating element 1 with a heat emitting
side 20.2 for heating of food configures the lower side of the cooking chamber of the cooking
pot 3. Further, the heating element 1 comprises a heating means 10 which is arranged at the
heat exchanger 20. The heat exchanger 20 and particularly the heating means 10 are further
configured curved such that the heating element 10 comprises a raised edge in the
direction of the filling opening 3.1 of the cooking pot 3. Thereby, food can be preferably
heated even in the periphery of the lower side of the cooking pot 3. Alternatively the heating
element 10 can extend opposing to the direction of the filling opening 3.1 of the cooking pot
3, a particularly lowering edge. Thereby, the existence of tensile stress in a dielectric 11
of the heating element 10 can be reduced or completely prevented. Preferably, the heating
element 10 can be configured such that the heat conductivity of the heating means 10 radially
increases or radially decreases such that particularly an uneven heat requirement of food
can be taken into account with certain stirring speeds. The heating means 10 of the heating
element 1 is further arranged at a heat-absorbing side 20.1 of the heat exchanger 20. The
heat exchanger 20 thereby comprises further a second functional layer 22 which is in contact
with the heating means 10 via the dielectric 11 of the heating means 10. By the dielectric 11
an electric isolation in relation to a first resistance element 12 of the heating means 10 is
given. At the heat emitting side 20.2 the heat exchanger 20 further comprises a first
functional layer 21 which can be advantageously configured suitable for food. Preferably,
the first functional layer 21 and the second functional layer 22 can be configured from one
material with the cooking pot 3 such that a weldabiltiy of the heating element 1 by a welding
seam 28 at the upper and/or lower edge can be given. Between the functional layers
21,  22 further sandwich-like a metallic heat conducting layer 23 is arranged such that a
temperature which is generated by the heating means 10 can be evenly distributed in the
heat conducting layer 23 which preferably has a good heat conductivity and can therewith be
emitted extensively to the first functional layer 21        and therewith, particularly evenly
extensively to the food in the cooking pot 3. In this embodiment an opening 27 can be
provided such that for example a drive means 51 can be guidable through. Particularly, the
shown heating element 1 can for example be a heating element according to the first
embodiment.

                                                 19
Figure 7 shows a cooking pot 3 according to the invention with a heating element 1 for a food
processor 2 in a further embodiment. Therewith, a heating means 10 of the heating element
1 comprises at least a first resistance element 12 which can be led out from the cooking pot
3 via at least one connecting means 14 connected to a voltage source and/or a control unit
54. Electrically separated from the first resistance element 12 by a dielectric 11 further a heat
exchanger 20 is arranged which is configured at a heat-absorbing side 20.1 for the detection
of heat generated from the heating means 10. Thereby, the heat exchanger 20 comprises
three layers, a first functional layer 21 which is arranged at the heat emitting side 20.2 of the
heat exchanger 20, a metallic heat conducting layer 23 and a second functional layer 22 at
the heat-absorbing side 20.1. Like in the first embodiment the heat exchanger 20 is thereby
configured sandwich-like, wherein the heat conducting layer 23 is arranged between the first
and the second functional layer 21,           22. The    heating element 1 can thereby be
circumferentially welded at the heat-absorbing side 20.1 and/or at the heat emitting side
20.2 by a welding seam 28. Thereby, a particularly solid arrangement of the heating element
1 with the cooking pot 3 results. Further, in the present embodiment a drive means 51 of a
stirrer 50 is guided through an opening 27 of the heating element 1. In order to ensure a
tightness related to food which can be introduced into the cooking pot 3 via the filling opening
3.1 further a sealing 29 is provided which is sealingly arranged with the drive means 51. The
drive means 51 is further connected with a stirring means 53 such that a turning of the drive
means 51 can likewise turn the stirring means 53. The stirring means 53 can preferably be
configured as a knife or whisk. Likewise multiple stirring means are possible.
Figure 8 shows a food processor 2 according to the invention with a cooking element 3
according to the invention in a further embodiment. Thereby, on the bottom side of the
cooking pot 3 a heating element is arranged. The heating element 1 thereby comprises a
heat exchanger 20 with multiple layers, particularly a first functional layer 21 at a heat
emitting side 20.2, a metallic heat conducting layer 23 and a second functional layer 22. At
the heat-absorbing side 20.1 of the heat exchanger 20 of the heating element 1 (like for
example shown in the embodiment of figures 1 to 7) further a heating means 10 is provided
for the active heating of a cooking pot 3 or of food within the cooking pot 3. The heating
means 10 is thereby preferably connected with a control unit 54 by a connecting means 14
such that the temperature within the cooking pot 3 is controllable. Further, the heating
element 1 comprises an opening 27 through which a drive means 51 of the stirrer 50 is
guided, wherein at the drive means 51 stirring means 53 within the cooking pot 3 are
arranged which are driven by a drive 52 which is in an operative connection with the drive
means 51. By such a configuration food within the cooking pot 3 can be particularly reliably
heated such that for example an ideal cooking point of a certain food can be just exactly
marked. Particularly, the shown heating element 1 can be a heating element from the first
embodiment or one of the further embodiments, particularly of the figures 3 or 4.

                                               20
Figure 9 shows a connection of forming areas 201.1, 202.1, 203.1 of different plates of a
method 100 according to the invention in a further embodiment. Thereby, a first functional
plate 201, a second functional plate 202 and a metallic heat conducting plate 203 are
connected with one another. The connection can occur partially or completely or in the
forming areas 201.1, 202.1, 203.1. Thereby, the first and second functional plate 201, 202
can be preferably sandwich-like pressed with the heat conducting plate 203 such that the
heat conducting plate 203 is arranged between the first and second functional plate 201,
202. During pressing a plate thickness of the first and a second functional plate 201, 202 of
the heat conducting plate 203 can be altered such that the surface of the plates is enlarged
and the connection can be particularly securely ensured. Thereby, further a heating can be
provided which occurs at the same time or subsequently to the pressing in order to ensure a
corresponding connection of the plate 201, 202, 203. Preferably, the method 100 of the
embodiment from figure 9 can be a part of the method of the embodiment of the subsequent
figure 10.
Figure 10 shows a method 100 according to the invention for the production of the heating
element 1 for a cooking pot 3 in a schematic representation of the method steps. Thereby,
preferably in a first method step 101 it can be provided that the heat exchanger 20 is
provided. Within the scope of this step 101 it is particularly preferably provided that further
steps are performed. Thereby, in a method step 101.1 it is provided that a metallic heat
conducting layer 203 and a first functional plate 201 and a second functional plate 202 are
provided. Thereby, the heat conducting layer 203 and the first functional layer 201 and the
second functional layer 202 comprise one of the forming areas 201.1, 202.1, 203.1
respectively. Further, a connecting of the forming areas 201.1, 203.1, 202.1 occurs within the
scope of step 101.2, wherein a heat conducting layer 23 in at least a first functional layer 21
results such that heat is transferable extensively from the heat conducting layer 23 to the first
functional layer 21. Previous or subsequent to step 101.2 it can be further provided that a
further method step 101.3 is performed which comprises a separation of the forming areas
201.1, 202.1, 203.1 from the heat conducting plate 203 and the first and/or second functional
plate 201, 202. Preferably, the separation of the forming areas 201.1, 202.1, 203.1 is thereby
provided at the same time. In a further method step 102 further an arrangement of a heating
means 10 with the heat exchanger 20 is provided, wherein for example the heating means
10 can be printed at the heat exchanger 20 using screen printing, particularly at a heat
absorbing side 20.1 of the heat exchanger 20. Preferably, further a particularly centrally
arranged opening 27 of the heat exchanger 20 can be provided. The provision of the opening
20 can preferably occur previous, subsequently and/or at the same time with the separation
of the form areas 201.1, 202.1, 203.1 from the heat conducting plate 203 and the first and
the second functional plate 201, 202. Particularly, for the production of the opening 27 a
material area within the forming area 201.1, 202.1, 203.1 can be separated from the heat

                                               21
further method step 103 can be provided which comprises an arrangement of at least one
sensor element 15, 16 which together with the heating means 10 can be printed at a heat
absorbing side 22.1 of the heat exchanger 20. Thereby, a simple, cost-efficient method
results to produce the heating element 1 which can ensure an even heat distribution over the
whole bottom area of the cooking pot 3 of a food processor 2. Particularly, by the shown
method 100 a heating element according to one of the embodiments according to figures 1 to
8 can be produced.
The previous description of the embodiments describes the present invention only within the
scope of examples. Naturally, single features of the embodiments as far as technically
meaningful can be freely combined with one another without leaving the scope of the present
invention.
In the appended claims, reference numbers are inserted for illustrative purposes only, and
are not intended to limit the so referenced items and features to those specifically illustrated
and described with reference to the accompanying drawings.

                                   22
                          Reference   list
1    Heating element
1.1  Overall thickness of 10 or 20
2    Food processor
3    Cooking pot
3.1  Filling opening
10   Heating means
11   Dielectric
12   First resistance element
13   Second resistance element
14   Connecting means
15   First sensor element
16   Second sensor element
20   Heat exchanger
20.1 Heat-absorbing side
20.2 Heat emitting side
20.3 Maximum diameter
20.4 Transmission thickness
21   First functional layer
21.1 Layer thickness of 21
22   Second functional layer
22.1 Layer thickness of 22
23   Heat conducting layer
23.1 Layer thickness of 23
24   Additional layer
25   Attachment point
26.1 Distance between 21 and 23
26.2 Distance between 22 and 23
27   Opening
28   Welding seam
29   Sealing

                              23
50    Stirrer
51    Drive means
52    Drive
53    Stirring means
54    Control unit
100   Method
101   Method step
101.1 Method step
101.2 Method step
101.3 Method step
102   Method step
103   Method step
201   First functional plate
201.1 Forming area of 201
202   Second functional plate
202.1 Forming area of 202
203   Heat conduction plate
203.1 Forming area of 20

                                                24
Claims
 1. Cooking pot (3) for a food processor (2) with a heating element (1), wherein the
 heating element (1) comprises a heating means (10) for generating heat and a heat
 exchanger (20) with a heat-absorbing side (20.1) at which the heat exchanger (20) is
 heatable by the heating means (10) and a heat emitting side (20.2) for heating of
 foodstuff in the food processor (2), wherein the heat exchanger (20) comprises an
 opening (27) for a stirrer (50) and a first functional layer (21) at the heat emitting side
 (20.2), characterized in that the heat exchanger (20) comprises at least partially a
 metallic heat conducting layer (23), which is arranged with the first functional layer (21)
 such that the heat generated by the heating means (10) is transferable extensively from
 the heat conducting layer (23) to the first functional layer (21).
 2. Cooking pot (3) according to claim 1, characterized in that the heat conducting layer
 (23) is arranged between a first functional layer (21) and a second functional layer (22).
 3. Cooking pot (3) according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the first and/or the
 second functional layer (21, 22) is configured suitable for foodstuff, particularly wherein
 the first and/or the second functional layer (21, 22) comprises a stainless steel or is
 consistence of stainless steel.
 4. Cooking pot (3) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
 the opening (27) is arranged in the center of the heat exchanger (20) and/or that the heat
 exchanger (20) is configured disk-like.
 5. Cooking pot (3) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a
 layer thickness (21.1) of the first functional layer (21)       is between 30% and 70%,
 preferably 40% to 60%, particularly preferred approximately 50% which corresponds to a
 layer      thickness     (23.1)     of       the     heat      conducting    layer     (23).

                                                 25
6.   Cooking pot (3) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
the heating means (10) is a heating layer, which is directly arranged at the heat
conducting layer (23) or the second functional layer (22).
7.   Cooking pot (3) according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the
heating means (10) comprises at least one first resistance element (12), which is wired
and/or can be inductively energized for the generation of heat, particularly wherein a
dielectric (11) is arranged at least over part of the first resistance element (12).
8. Cooking pot (3) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that at
least one first sensor element (15) is arranged at the heat exchanger (20), particularly for
detecting a temperature.
9.    Food processor (2) with a cooking pot (3) and a drive (52) for a stirrer (50),
characterized in that the cooking pot (3) is configured according to any one of the
preceding claims
10. Method (100) for the production of a cooking pot (3), particularly according to any one
of claims 1 to 8, for a kitchen machine (2), particularly according to claim 9, comprising
the following steps:
a) providing a heat exchanger (20) comprising the following steps:
       -       providing a metallic heat conduction plate (203) and at least one first
               functional plate (201), wherein the heat conduction plate (203) and the first
               functional plate (201) each comprise at least one forming area (201.1,
               203.1),
       -       connecting at least the forming area (203.1) of the heat conduction plate
               (203) with the forming area (201.1) of the first functional plate (201), wherein
               a heat conducting layer (23) and at least one first functional layer (21)
               with   a heat emitting side (20.2) is obtained, wherein heat is transferable
               over the connected forming areas extensively from the heat conducting layer
               (23) to the first functional layer (21); and
b) arranging a heating means (10) at the heat exchanger (20).
11. Method (100) according to claim 10, characterized in that the provision of the heat
exchanger (20) according to step a) further comprises providing a second functional plate
(202) which has a further forming area (202.1), and connecting the further forming area
(202.1) with the forming areas (201.1, 203.1) of the heat conducting layer (23) and the
first functional plate (21)       such that a second functional plate (22) of the heat

                                             26
conducting    plate (203) is arranged sandwich-like between the forming        areas (201.1,
202.1) of the first and second functional plate (201, 202).
12. Method (100) according to claim 10 or 11, characterized in that the provision of the
heat exchanger (20) according to step a) further comprises the following step:
-      separating of the forming areas (201.1, 202.1, 203.1) from the heat conducting
plate (203) and the first and/or second functional plate (201, 202), particularly wherein
the separation of the forming areas (201.1, 202.1, 203.1) from the heat conducting plate
(203)   and one of the functional plates (201,        202) or both functional plates (201,
202) is effected at the same time.
13. Method (100) according to any one of the claims 10 to 12, characterized in that the
arranging of the heating means (10) at the heat exchanger (20) in step b) comprises a
printing of a heat layer to the heat exchanger (20), particularly by screen printing.
14. Method (100) according to any one of the claims 10 to 13, characterized in that
connecting of the forming areas (201.1, 202.1, 203.1) comprises a pressing of the
forming areas (201.1, 202.1, 203.1), particularly wherein a thickness of the forming areas
(201.1, 202.1, 203.1) decreases.
15. Method (100) according to any one of the claims 10 to 14 characterized in that
providing the heat exchanger (20) according to step a) further comprises the following
step:
- providing of an opening (27) in the heat exchanger (20).

<removed-date>
                                           <U+2736><U+2734><U+273A>
                                                                      <U+2736>
                        <U+2736><U+2735>
                               <U+2737><U+273C><U+2733><U+2736>   <U+2737><U+273C>               <U+2736><U+273B>
                   <U+2736><U+273A>
                                                                 <U+2736><U+2736>
              <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2736>
<removed-apn>
                                                                           <U+2736><U+2738>
                         <U+2736><U+2737>
                                                  <U+2737><U+2736>                            <U+2736><U+2739>
              <U+2737><U+2735>                                            <U+2737><U+2738>
                              <U+2737><U+2737>           <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2737>                       <U+2736><U+2739>
                     <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>

<removed-date>
                                          <U+2737><U+2734><U+273A>
               <U+2736>                                          <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2738>
                                                                                    <U+2737><U+2735>
                                                                                         <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2739>
                                                     <U+2737><U+273C>
                   <U+2737><U+2736>             <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2737>                         <U+2737><U+273C><U+2733><U+2736>                       <U+2736><U+2733><U+2736>
                                                                               <U+2737><U+2736><U+2733><U+2736>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2737><U+2738>
               <U+2737><U+2737>
                                          <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2736>
                                                                         <U+2736><U+2738>    <U+2737><U+2737><U+2733><U+2736>
                        <U+2736><U+2737>   <U+2736><U+2736>                                <U+2736><U+2735>                        <U+2737><U+2738><U+2733><U+2736>
               <U+2736>
                                         <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702>    <U+274B>
                                                                <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2738>
                                                                               <U+2737><U+2735>
                                                     <U+2737><U+273C>
                                  <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2737>                                                   <U+2736><U+2733><U+2736>
                   <U+2737><U+2736>
              <U+2737><U+2738>                          <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2736>
                        <U+2736><U+2737>   <U+2736><U+2736>
                                                               <U+2736><U+2735>        <U+2736><U+2738>
                                         <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702>
                   <U+2736>
                                                                       <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2738>
                                                                                    <U+2737><U+2735>
               <U+2737><U+2735>
                                                          <U+2737><U+273C>                          <U+2736><U+2733><U+2736>
                                    <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2737>
                                                                               <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2739>
               <U+2737><U+2736>
              <U+2737><U+2738>
              <U+2737><U+2739>
               <U+2737><U+2737>                          <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2736>
                        <U+2736><U+2737>   <U+2736><U+2736>
                                                                <U+2736><U+2735>
                                         <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702>    <U+2701>                        <U+2736><U+2738>

<removed-date>
                                                      <U+2738><U+2734><U+273A>
                                     <U+2736>                             <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2738>          <U+2738><U+2733><U+2736>
                                                                                                        <U+2738>
                                                                           <U+2737><U+2735>
                     <U+2737><U+2736>                         <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2737>               <U+2737><U+273C>                                       <U+2736><U+2733><U+2736>
               <U+2737><U+273B><U+2733><U+2736>                                                                                 <U+2737>   <U+273D>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                <U+2737><U+273A>
                                                                                                <U+2737><U+273A>
              <U+2737><U+273B><U+2733><U+2737>
              <U+2737><U+2738>
                     <U+2737><U+2737>
                                               <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2736>
                                                                                                    <U+2737>   <U+273D>
                                     <U+2736><U+2737>
                                                                                         <U+2736><U+2735>
                               <U+2736><U+2736>
                                                    <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                                                                   <U+2738><U+2733><U+2736>
                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                            <U+2738>
                                                               <U+2737><U+273C>
                          <U+2737><U+2736>
                                               <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2737>                                                 <U+2737>   <U+273D>
                          <U+2737><U+2738>
                          <U+2737><U+2737>
                                                      <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2736>                                          <U+2737><U+2735>
                                          <U+2736><U+2736>                                           <U+2736><U+2735>
                                                 <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702>      <U+2701>
                                                                    <U+273A><U+2735>
                                                                                   <U+2738><U+2733><U+2736>
                                                      <U+273A><U+2738>
                                                                                                            <U+2738>
                                    <U+2736>
                                                                                                <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2739>
                                                                                                            <U+2736><U+2733><U+2736>
                          <U+2737><U+2736>                                                <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2737>            <U+2737>   <U+273D>
                          <U+2737><U+2738>
                                                           <U+2737>   <U+273E>
                          <U+2737><U+2737>
                                                                                                    <U+2737><U+2735>
                                    <U+2736><U+2736>                                    <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2736>
                          <U+2736><U+2737>
                               <U+2736><U+2739>              <U+2737><U+273C>                                      <U+2736><U+2735>
                                                 <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702>      <U+274B>                           <U+273A><U+2736>

<removed-date>
                                        <U+2739><U+2734><U+273A>
                                                             <U+2737>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2738>                       <U+273A><U+2735>
                                 <U+2736>           <U+273A><U+2738>             <U+2737><U+273C>
               <U+2737><U+2735>
                                                                 <U+2737><U+2736>
                                                                 <U+2737><U+2738>
              <U+2736><U+2739>                                                  <U+2737><U+2737>
                                                       <U+2736><U+2735>
                                                  <U+273A><U+2736>
                                                 <U+273A><U+2737>
                    <U+273A><U+2739>
                                     <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702>
                         <U+2737><U+2735><U+2736><U+2733><U+2736>
                                                                       <U+2737><U+2735><U+2736>
               <U+2737><U+2735><U+2738><U+2733><U+2736>
                                                                        <U+2737><U+2735><U+2738>
               <U+2737><U+2735><U+2737><U+2733><U+2736>                                                    <U+2737><U+2735><U+2737>
                                      <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702>   <U+274B>

<removed-date>
                                            <U+273A><U+2734><U+273A>
              <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735>
                              <U+2736><U+2735><U+2736>
                                                  <U+2736><U+2735><U+2737>
                                                        <U+2736><U+2735><U+2738>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2736><U+2735><U+2736><U+2733><U+2736>   <U+2736><U+2735><U+2736><U+2733><U+2737>   <U+2736><U+2735><U+2736><U+2733><U+2738>
                                     <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>   <U+274B>

