   ABSTRACT
   This Utility Model refers to a biaxial livestock disposing blender includes a drying
   and stirring room, a heating room, and a motor room. The heating room is installed at
 4 the bottom of the drying and stirring room, and the stirring room is set at the top side
   of the drying and stirring room. The stirring chamber and the drying and stirring
   chamber are connected through a feeding pipe. An exhaust gas purification funnel is
   arranged at the top of the drying and stirring chamber with discharging gate arranged
 8 on one side. There is a stirring shaft with stirring paddle arranged. A moisture content
   measuring sensor is arranged at the bottom of the drying and stirring chamber, and a
   feed bin is arranged at the top of the stirring chamber. A discharging gate is arranged
   at the bottom of the stirring chamber. The discharging door is arranged at the top of
12 the feeding pipe. The motor room is provided with a stirring motor 1, a stirring motor
   2 and a control panel. The entire unit has a reasonable structure, excrement is difficult
   to clot during processing procedure, and it has two functions of drying and stirring,
   having a better pretreatment efficiency of compost.
16
                                                 8

7 __ __ __ __ ___H___R           14
                              00
                              00
                              00
                   100
                       Fig. 1

Our Ref: 81971nno
                                                                       P/00/009
                                                                  Regulation 3.2
                                AUSTRALIA
                               Patents Act 1990
         INNOVATION SPECIFICATION FOR AN INVENTION ENTITLED
Invention title:     A Biaxial Livestock Excrement Disposing Blender
Name of Applicant:   Jilin Academy of Environmental Sciences
Address for Service  A.P.T. Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys
                     PO Box 833
                     Blackwood, S.A. 5051
The invention is described in the following statement:

                       A Biaxial Livestock Excrement Disposing Blender
   Technology Field
   The Utility Model related to the biaxial livestock excrement disposing blender
 5 belongs to the field of environmental pollution treatment.
   Background Art
   Livestock refer to livestock, poultry which are available for the development of
   animal husbandry. They are the main animal protein sources for humans. Livestock
10 breeding has high economic value. It has always been an important way for farmers to
   realize their dream of agriculture and become rich. Livestock excrement mainly refers
   to a type of rural solid waste produced in the livestock and poultry breeding industry,
   including pig excrement, cow dung and sheep excrement, chicken dung, duck dung,
   etc. Livestock excrement has been used as an important source of soil fertilizer. As a
15 result, livestock excrement is mostly applied in site. According to statistics of year
   1976, at that time, livestock and poultry excrement accounted to 1/3 of fertilizer for
   agriculture production. Animal excrement contains abundant organic matter and
   nutrients such as nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. At the same time, it can also
   supply various minerals and trace elements such as calcium, magnesium, and sulfur
20 for crops to grow. But excessively concentrated animal husbandry lead to excessive
   production of livestock and poultry excrement in some areas, which could not be
   absorbed by traditional fertilization treatment methods. Massive heaping causes
   serious pollution to the atmosphere, soil and water environment. On the other hand,
   due to the rapid development of the chemical fertilizer industry, people are using
25 chemical fertilizers in large quantities, and the livestock excrement are discharged at
   will, occupying a large area and causing serious pollution. Therefore, improving the
   efficiency of livestock excrement composting, quality of organic fertilizer and field
                                                2

   returning rate is one of the effective ways to solve the pollution of livestock
   excrement in the countryside. That is why the blender occurs.
   Summary of Invention
 s The Utility Model needs to overcome the existing defects and provides a biaxial
   livestock disposing blender which is of reasonable structure, and can ensure that the
   excrement is not easy to clump with two functions of drying and stirring, and higher
   processing efficiency.
   In order to solve the above technical problems, the present Utility Model provides the
10 following technical solutions:
   A biaxial livestock disposing blender includes a drying and stirring room, a heating
   room, and a motor room. The heating room is installed at the bottom of the drying and
   stirring room, and the stirring room is set at the top side of the drying and stirring
   room. The stirring chamber and the drying and stirring chamber are connected
15 through a feeding pipe. An exhaust gas purification funnel is arranged at the top of the
   drying and stirring chamber with discharging gate arranged on one side. There is a
   stirring shaft with stirring paddle arranged. A moisture content measuring sensor is
   arranged at the bottom of the drying and stirring chamber, and a feed bin is arranged
   at the top of the stirring chamber. A discharging gate is arranged at the bottom of the
20 stirring chamber. The discharging door is arranged at the top of the feeding pipe. The
   motor room is provided with a stirring motor 1, a stirring motor 2 and a control panel.
   The stirring motor 1 and the stirring motor 2 are all connected to the stirring shaft
   through bearing flexibly.
   Besides, the feed bin is an inverted cone-shaped structure, and the moisture content
25 measuring sensor is a high-temperature type.
   Furthermore, the heating chamber is gas-fired or electric-heated type, with a
   temperature control switch.
                                              3

   There are two stirring shafts on which the stirring paddle are uniformly staggered
   arranged.
   The stirring motor and the stirring motor, which rotate in opposite directions are
   connected to the control panel through wires.
 5 The beneficial effect of this Utility Model lies in: The biaxial livestock excrement
   disposing blender has various functions of heating and drying, stirring and crushing,
   effectively treating livestock excrement with high water content. The moisture content
   measuring sensor can effectively detect the moisture of the excrement, thus
   controlling the heating intensity through the temperature control switch to obtain a
10 product with a reasonable moisture content. The two stirring motors with opposite
   rotating directions are used to drive the stirring shaft and the stirring paddle at high
   speed to mix and squeeze the excrement in the mixing room with better stirring effect,
   more complete mixing, and good treatment effect. After temperature adjustment, the
   material mixture is more even and full, and meets the requirements for composting
15 material. After the material is discharged from the discharge gate, the compost is
   produced as organic fertilizer. The discharged mixture has reached a certain
   temperature, which can effectively improve the efficiency of composting and the
   quality of organic fertilizer, greatly shortening the period of composting, and
   ultimately solving the problem of solid waste pollution in rural livestock and poultry.
20
   Brief Description of Drawings
   The attached drawings are used to provide a further understanding of the present
   Utility Model, and constitute a part of the specification. It is used to explain the
   present invention with embodiment, and does not constitute a limitation of the present
25 invention.
   Fig. 1 is a structural diagram of the biaxial blender.
   Number mark in the Figure: 1. Drying and mixing room; 2. Heating chamber; 3.
                                                 4

   Motor room; 4. Feed bins 5. Exhaust funnels; 6. Stirring shaft; 7. Stirring paddle; 8.
   Discharging gate; 9. Water content measuring sensor; 10. Fuel feed door; 11.
   Temperature control switch; 12. Stirring motor 1; 13. Stirring motor 2; 14. Control
   panel.
 5
   Detail Description of Embodiments
   The Utility Model will be described below with reference to the attached drawing. It
   should be understood that the preferred embodiments described herein are only used
   to illustrate and explain the present Utility Model, and are not used to limit the present
10 invention.
   As shown in the Fig. 1, the biaxial livestock excrement disposing blender includes
   drying and stirring room 1, heating room 2, and motor room 3. It has many functions
   including heating, drying and mixing. The heating room 2 is installed at the bottom of
   the drying and stirring room 1 for convenience drying of the excrement. The stirring
15 room 3 is designed at the side of the drying and stirring room 1. At the top of the
   stirring chamber 1 is arranged with a feed bin 4 which is installed with an exhaust
   funnel 5 on one side to exhaust waster gas. There is an stirring shaft 6 with stirring
   paddle 7 arranged in the drying and mixing room 1 on the bottom of which arranged
   with discharge gate 8 of water content measuring sensor 9. The water content
20 measuring sensor is used to measure the water content of the raw material, thereby
   changing the heating conditions in the heating chamber 2 to facilitate adjustment. The
   fuel feed gate 10 is provided on the heating chamber 2. Stirring motor 12, stirring
   motor 13 and control panel 14 are provided in the motor chamber 3. The stirring
   motor 12 and the stirring motor 13 are connected to the stirring shaft 6 through
25 bearing flexibly.
   More specifically, the feed bin 4 is an inverted cone-shaped structure, and the
   moisture content measuring sensor 9 is a high-temperature type, which is convenient
   for detecting the moisture content of the material and further controlling the heating
                                                 5

   temperature. The heating chamber 2 is gas fueled type or electric type, equipped with
   a temperature control switch 11. The number of the stirring shafts 6 is two, and the
   stirring paddle 7 on the stirring shaft 6 are uniformly staggered. The stirring motor 12
   and the stirring motor 13, rotating in opposite directions are connected to the control
 s panel 14 through wires.
   The Utility Model has some improvements in: a biaxial livestock excrement disposing
   blender, livestock excrement through feed bin 4 enters into the drying and stirring
   chamber 1 for fully mixing, and then the excrement in the drying and stirring chamber
   1 are fully heated and slaked through the heating chamber 2 which has various
10 functions of heating, drying and stirring. Thus good treatment effect can be achieved
   while solving the problem that the single mixer is difficult to handle. Start the two
   stirring motors with opposite rotating directions to drive the stirring shaft 6 and the
   stirring paddle 7 to rotate at high speed, so the excrement will stir and collide in the
   drying and stirring room 1, bringing better squeezing results, more complete mixing
15 and good treatment effect. After the temperature is adjusted, the material mixed is
   more even and full, and the requirements of the composting materials are satisfied.
   After the material is discharged from the discharge gate 8, the organic fertilizer is
   composted and then the mixture of materials of a certain temperature can effectively
   improve the efficiency of composting and the quality of organic fertilizer, greatly
20 shortening the period of composting, and ultimately solving the problem of solid
   waste pollution of livestock in rural areas.
   The above is a preferred embodiment of the present Utility Mode. The technical
   personnel in the field to which the present Utility Model belongs can also make
   changes and modifications to the above embodiments. Therefore, the present
25 invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above. Any obvious
   improvements, substitutions or modifications made based on the present invention fall
   within the protection scope of the present utility mode invention.
                                                 6

   CLAIMS
          1. A biaxial livestock excrement disposing blender comprising drying and
   stirring chamber (1), heating chamber (2) and motor room (3), is characterized by:
   The heating chamber (2) is designed at the bottom of the drying and stirring chamber
 5 (1), and the motor chamber (3) is designed on the side of the drying and stirring
   chamber (1); the top of the drying and stirring chamber (1) is provided with feed bin
   (4) which is equipped with an exhaust funnel (5) on one side; a stirring shaft (6) is
   installed in the drying and stirring chamber (1), and the stirring shaft (6) is installed
   with a stirring paddle (7); on the bottom of the drying and stirring chamber (1)
10 arranged with a discharging gate (8) which is installed with a moisture content
   measuring sensor (9). A fuel feeding door (10) is arranged on the heating chamber (2);
   stirring motor 1 (12), stirring motor 2 (13), control panel (14) are arranged in the
   motor chamber (3), and the stirring motor 1 (12), and stirring motor 2 (13) are
   connected to the stirring shaft (6) through bearing flexibly.
15        2. A biaxial livestock excrement disposing blender, according to claim 1, has
   the following characteristics: The feed bin (4) is an inverted cone-shaped structure,
   and the moisture content measuring sensor (9) is high-temperature type.
          3. A biaxial livestock excrement disposing blender, according to claim 1, has
   the following characteristics: The heating chamber (2) is gas-fired or electric-heated
20 type, with temperature control switch (11).
          4. A biaxial livestock excrement disposing blender, according to claim 1, has
   the following characteristics: There are two stirring shafts (6) on which the stirring
   paddle (7) is uniformly staggered arranged.
          5. A biaxial livestock excrement disposing blender, according to claim 1, has
25 the following characteristics: The stirring motor (12) and the stirring motor (13),
   which rotate in opposite directions are connected to the control panel (14) through
   wires.
                                                7

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 1

