                                          ABSTRACT
In one embodiment, the invention comprises an apparatus which includes a processor and a
non-transitory medium having stored thereon a set of instructions, which when executed by
the processor, cause the apparatus to present, to an advertiser, an indication of an opportunity
for a promotion to be presented in the future, in which the opportunity includes an outcome
having at least one characteristic occurring in a game played in the future, in which the at
least one characteristic includes an amount of money that may be won based on the outcome
in the game; receive, from the advertiser, content for the promotion, in which the content
includes at least one of image data, video data, and audio data; determine that a player using a
mobile handheld gaming device achieves the outcome in the game played using the mobile
handheld gaming device; in response to determining the player wins, present the content
through the mobile handheld gaming device to the player.

WO 2008/070787                                    PCT/US2007/086661
                               1/6
                                      100
      Mobile Gaming     Mobile Gaming     Mobile Gaming
          Device 1        Device 2           Device N
               110                115              120
                                                  Marketer
 POS Terminal
                                                   Device
                    110                                125
                        Casino Server
     Gaming
     Device
           145
           Beacon         Receiver        Display Device
                140               135              130
                        FIGURE 1

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
                        SYSTEM FOR MANAGING PROMOTIONS
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
    FIG. 1 shows a system according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 2 shows a mobile gaming device according to some embodiments.
 5  FIG. 3 shows a gaming device according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 4 shows a casino server according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 5 shows a point of sale terminal according to some embodiments.
    FIG. 6 shows a mobile gaming device according to some embodiments.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
10  Guidelinesfor interpretingthe present application
    The following sections I - X provide a guide to interpreting the present application.
           I. Terms
             The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and / or composition
15  of matter, unless expressly specified otherwise.
             The term "process" means any process, algorithm, method or the like,
    unless expressly specified otherwise.
             Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently
    includes one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a
20  process have an inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term
    'process' or a like term. Accordingly, any reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps'
    of a process has sufficient antecedent basis.
             The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions
    disclosed in this application" , unless expressly specified otherwise.
25           The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the
    embodiment", "the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some
    embodiments", "certain embodiments", "one embodiment", "another embodiment"
    and the like mean "one or more (but not all) embodiments of the disclosed
    invention(s)", unless expressly specified otherwise.
                                               1

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
             The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the
    invention, unless expressly specified otherwise.
             A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does
    not imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another
 5  embodiment (e.g., an embodiment described before the referenced embodiment),
    unless expressly specified otherwise.
             The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean
    "including but not limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise.
             The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly
10  specified otherwise.
             The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified
    otherwise.
             The term "herein" means "in the present application, including anything
    which may be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
15           The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of
    things (such as an enumerated list of things) means any combination of one or
    more of those things, unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the
    phrase "at least one of a widget, a car and a wheel" means either (i) a widget, (ii) a
    car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget and a car, (v) a widget and a wheel, (vi) a car and a
20  wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a wheel. The phrase "at least one of', when such
    phrase modifies a plurality of things does not mean "one of each of' the plurality
    of things.
             Numerical terms such as "one", "two", etc. when used as cardinal numbers
    to indicate quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the
25  quantity indicated by that numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity
    indicated by that numerical term. For example, the phrase "one widget" does not
    mean "at least one widget", and therefore the phrase "one widget" does not cover,
    e.g., two widgets.
             The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly
30  specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based
    only on" and "based at least on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to
    the phrase "based at least in part on".
                                                 2

 WO 2008/070787                                                            PCT/US2007/086661
             The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly
    specified otherwise. For example, the term "represents" do not mean "represents
    only", unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "the data
    represents a credit card number" describes both "the data represents only a credit
 5  card number" and "the data represents a credit card number and the data also
    represents something else".
             The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of
    words that express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something
    that is previously and explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in
10  a claim, the clause or other words that the term "whereby" modifies do not
    establish specific further limitations of the claim or otherwise restricts the meaning
    or scope of the claim.
             The term "e.g." and like terms mean "for example", and thus does not limit
    the term or phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends
15  data (e.g., instructions, a data structure) over the Internet", the term "e.g." explains
    that "instructions" are an example of "data" that the computer may send over the
    Internet, and also explains that "a data structure" is an example of "data" that the
    computer may send over the Internet. However, both "instructions" and "a data
    structure" are merely examples of "data", and other things besides "instructions"
20  and "a data structure" can be "data".
             The term "respective" and like terms mean "taken individually". Thus if
    two or more things have "respective" characteristics, then each such thing has its
    own characteristic, and these characteristics can be different from each other but
    need not be. For example, the phrase "each of two machines has a respective
25  function" means that the first such machine has a function and the second such
    machine has a function as well. The function of the first machine may or may not
    be the same as the function of the second machine.
             The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or
    phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e.,
30  instructions) over the Internet", the term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the
    "data" that the computer sends over the Internet.
                                                 3

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
              Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers
    within the range. For example, the range "1 to 10" shall be interpreted to
    specifically include whole numbers between 1 and 10 (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, ... 9) and
    non-whole numbers (e.g., , 1.1, 1.2, ... 1.9).
 5            Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous (e.g., because of an
    explicit statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous), instances of one such
    term / phrase does not mean instances of another such term / phrase must have a
    different meaning. For example, where a statement renders the meaning of
    "including" to be synonymous with "including but not limited to", the mere usage
10  of the phrase "including but not limited to" does not mean that the term "including"
    means something other than "including but not limited to".
           II.       Determining
              The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to
15  determine a price, determining a value, determine an object which meets a certain
    criterion) is used in an extremely broad sense. The term "determining"
    encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore "determining" can include
    calculating, computing, processing, deriving, investigating, looking up (e.g.,
    looking up in a table, a database or another data structure), ascertaining and the
20  like. Also, "determining" can include receiving (e.g., receiving information),
    accessing (e.g., accessing data in a memory) and the like. Also, "determining" can
    include resolving, selecting, choosing, establishing, and the like.
              The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and
    therefore "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing
25  and the like.
              The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must
    be performed, and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does
    not imply that an algorithm or process is used.
              The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be
30  used. For example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.
                                               4

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
           III.      Forms of Sentences
             Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as
    more than one of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers
    one widget as well as more than one widget), and where in a second claim that
 5  depends on the first claim, the second claim uses a definite article "the" to refer to
    the limitation (e.g., "the widget"), this does not imply that the first claim covers
    only one of the feature, and this does not imply that the second claim covers only
    one of the feature (e.g., "the widget" can cover both one widget and more than one
    widget).
10           When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is
    used as an adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly
    specified otherwise) merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish
    that particular feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by
    a similar term. For example, a "first widget" may be so named merely to
15  distinguish it from, e.g., a "second widget". Thus, the mere usage of the ordinal
    numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate any other
    relationship between the two widgets, and likewise does not indicate any other
    characteristics of either or both widgets. For example, the mere usage of the
    ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" (1) does not indicate
20  that either widget comes before or after any other in order or location; (2) does not
    indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time; and (3)
    does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other, as in
    importance or quality. In addition, the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not
    define a numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For
25  example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the
    term "widget" does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.
             When a single device, article or other product is described herein, more
    than one device / article (whether or not they cooperate) may alternatively be used
    in place of the single device / article that is described. Accordingly, the
30  functionality that is described as being possessed by a device may alternatively be
    possessed by more than one device / article (whether or not they cooperate).
                                                 5

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
            Similarly, where more than one device, article or other product is described
    herein (whether or not they cooperate), a single device / article may alternatively
    be used in place of the more than one device or article that is described. For
    example, a plurality of computer-based devices may be substituted with a single
 5  computer-based device. Accordingly, the various functionality that is described as
    being possessed by more than one device or article may alternatively be possessed
    by a single device / article.
            The functionality and / or the features of a single device that is described
    may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described
10  but are not explicitly described as having such functionality / features. Thus, other
    embodiments need not include the described device itself, but rather can include
    the one or more other devices which would, in those other embodiments, have such
    functionality / features.
15        IV.       Disclosed Examples and Terminology Are Not Limiting
            Neither the Title (set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present
    application) nor the Abstract (set forth at the end of the present application) is to be
    taken as limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention(s). An
    Abstract has been included in this application merely because an Abstract of not
20  more than 150 words is required under 37 C.F.R. § 1.72(b).
            The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the
    present application are for convenience only, and are not to be taken as limiting the
    disclosure in any way.
            Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are
25  presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and
    are not intended to be, limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s)
    are widely applicable to numerous embodiments, as is readily apparent from the
    disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the disclosed
    invention(s) may be practiced with various modifications and alterations, such as
30  structural, logical, software, and electrical modifications. Although particular
    features of the disclosed invention(s) may be described with reference to one or
    more particular embodiments and / or drawings, it should be understood that such
                                                 6

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
    features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or
    drawings with reference to which they are described, unless expressly specified
    otherwise.
            No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the
 5  present application constitutes the invention claimed herein, or is essential to the
    invention claimed herein, or is coextensive with the invention claimed herein,
    except where it is either expressly stated to be so in this specification or expressly
    recited in a claim.
            All words in every claim have the broadest scope of meaning they would
10  have been given by a person of ordinary skill in the art as of the priority date. No
    term used in any claim is specially defined or limited by this application except
    where expressly so stated either in this specification or in a claim.
            The preambles of the claims that follow recite purposes, benefits and
    possible uses of the claimed invention only and do not limit the claimed invention.
15          The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the
    invention(s). Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the
    invention(s) which must be present in all embodiments.
            Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be
    in continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified
20  otherwise. On the contrary, such devices need only transmit to each other as
    necessary or desirable, and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the
    time. For example, a machine in communication with another machine via the
    Internet may not transmit data to the other machine for long period of time (e.g.
    weeks at a time). In addition, devices that are in communication with each other
25  may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
            A description of an embodiment with several components or features does
    not imply that all or even any of such components / features are required. On the
    contrary, a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide
    variety of possible embodiments of the present invention(s). Unless otherwise
30  specified explicitly, no component / feature is essential or required.
            Although process steps, algorithms or the like may be described or claimed
    in a particular sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in
                                                7

 WO 2008/070787                                                            PCT/US2007/086661
    different orders. In other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be
    explicitly described or claimed does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the
    steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be
    performed in any order possible. Further, some steps may be performed
 5  simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non-simultaneously
    (e.g., because one step is described after the other step). Moreover, the illustration
    of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process
    is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto, does not imply that the
    illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention(s), and does not
10  imply that the illustrated process is preferred.
             Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that
    does not imply that all or any of the steps are preferred, essential or required.
    Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include
    other processes that omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise
15  specified explicitly, no step is essential or required.
             Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other
    products or methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other
    products or methods. For example, such interaction may include linking one
    business model to another business model. Such interaction may be provided to
20  enhance the flexibility or desirability of the process.
             Although a product may be described as including a plurality of
    components, aspects, qualities, characteristics and / or features, that does not
    indicate that any or all of the plurality are preferred, essential or required. Various
    other embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include other
25  products that omit some or all of the described plurality.
             An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not
    imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified
    otherwise. Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be
    numbered) does not imply that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any
30  category, unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the enumerated list
    "a computer, a laptop, a PDA" does not imply that any or all of the three items of
                                                 8

 WO 2008/070787                                                            PCT/US2007/086661
    that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three items
    of that list are comprehensive of any category.
             An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not
    imply that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted
 5  for each other.
             All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any
    embodiments were made or performed, as the case may be.
           V.         Computing
10           It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various
    processes described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately
    programmed general purpose computers, special purpose computers and
    computing devices. Typically a processor (e.g., one or more microprocessors, one
    or more microcontrollers, one or more digital signal processors) will receive
15  instructions (e.g., from a memory or like device), and execute those instructions,
    thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions.
    Instructions may be embodied in, e.g., one or more computer programs, one or
    more scripts.
             A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units
20  (CPUs), computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, or like
    devices or any combination thereof, regardless of the architecture (e.g., chip-level
    multiprocessing / multi-core, RISC, CISC, Microprocessor without Interlocked
    Pipeline Stages, pipelining configuration, simultaneous multithreading).
             Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for
25  performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g.,
    a processor and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to
    perform the process.
             Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of
    data) may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer
30  readable media) in a number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired
    circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of, or in combination with,
    some or all of the software instructions that can implement the processes of various
                                                9

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    embodiments. Thus, various combinations of hardware and software may be used
    instead of software only.
             The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of
    the same, or a combination of different media, that participate in providing data
 5  (e.g., instructions, data structures) which may be read by a computer, a processor
    or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited
    to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile
    media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory.
    Volatile media include dynamic random access memory (DRAM), which typically
10  constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables, copper
    wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the
    processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves, light waves
    and electromagnetic emissions, such as those generated during radio frequency
    (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer
15  readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk,
    magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD, any other optical
    medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of
    holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip
    or cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from
20  which a computer can read.
             Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying
    data (e.g. sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i)
    delivered from RAM to a processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission
    medium; (iii) formatted and / or transmitted according to numerous formats,
25  standards or protocols, such as Ethernet (or IEEE 802.3), SAP, ATP, Bluetooth 0,
    and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G; and / or (iv) encrypted to ensure privacy or
    prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art.
             Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer
    readable medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer
30  readable medium can store (in any appropriate format) those program elements
    which are appropriate to perform the method.
                                               10

 WO 2008/070787                                                            PCT/US2007/086661
             Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all
    the described steps are required, embodiments of an apparatus include a computer /
    computing device operable to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the
    described process.
 5           Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not
    indicate that all the described steps are required, embodiments of a computer
    readable medium storing a program or data structure include a computer-readable
    medium storing a program that, when executed, can cause a processor to perform
    some (but not necessarily all) of the described process.
10           Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary
    skill in the art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be
    readily employed, and (ii) other memory structures besides databases may be
    readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases
    presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of
15  information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those
    suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any
    illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only; one of
    ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries
    can be different from those described herein. Further, despite any depiction of the
20  databases as tables, other formats (including relational databases, object-based
    models and / or distributed databases) could be used to store and manipulate the
    data types described herein. Likewise, object methods or behaviors of a database
    can be used to implement various processes, such as the described herein. In
    addition, the databases may, in a known manner, be stored locally or remotely
25  from a device which accesses data in such a database.
             Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment
    including a computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications
    network) with one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the
    devices directly or indirectly, via any wired or wireless medium (e.g. the Internet,
30  LAN, WAN or Ethernet, Token Ring, a telephone line, a cable line, a radio
    channel, an optical communications line, commercial on-line service providers,
    bulletin board systems, a satellite communications link, a combination of any of
                                                  11

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
    the above). Each of the devices may themselves comprise computers or other
    computing devices, such as those based on the Intel@ Pentium@ or CentrinoTM
    processor, that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and
    type of devices may be in communication with the computer.
 5          In an embodiment, a server computer or centralized authority may not be
    necessary or desirable. For example, the present invention may, in an
    embodiment, be practiced on one or more devices without a central authority. In
    such an embodiment, any functions described herein as performed by the server
    computer or data described as stored on the server computer may instead be
10  performed by or stored on one or more such devices.
            Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate
    without any user intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some
    human intervention (e.g., a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human).
15        VI.       Continuing Applications
            The present disclosure provides, to one of ordinary skill in the art, an
    enabling description of several embodiments and / or inventions. Some of these
    embodiments and / or inventions may not be claimed in the present application, but
    may nevertheless be claimed in one or more continuing applications that claim the
20  benefit of priority of the present application.
            Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for
    subject matter that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present
    application.
25        VII.      35 U.S.C. S 112, paragraph 6
            In a claim, a limitation of the claim which includes the phrase "means for"
    or the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies to that
    limitation.
            In a claim, a limitation of the claim which does not include the phrase
30  "Vmeans for" or the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6 does
    not apply to that limitation, regardless of whether that limitation recites a function
    without recitation of structure, material or acts for performing that function. For
                                                12

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    example, in a claim, the mere use of the phrase "step of' or the phrase "steps of' in
    referring to one or more steps of the claim or of another claim does not mean that
    35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies to that step(s).
             With respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in
 5  accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, the corresponding structure,
    material or acts described in the specification, and equivalents thereof, may
    perform additional functions as well as the specified function.
             Computers, processors, computing devices and like products are structures
    that can perform a wide variety of functions. Such products can be operable to
10  perform a specified function by executing one or more programs, such as a
    program stored in a memory device of that product or in a memory device which
    that product accesses. Unless expressly specified otherwise, such a program need
    not be based on any particular algorithm, such as any particular algorithm that
    might be disclosed in the present application. It is well known to one of ordinary
15  skill in the art that a specified function may be implemented via different
    algorithms, and any of a number of different algorithms would be a mere design
    choice for carrying out the specified function.
             Therefore, with respect to a means or a step for performing a specified
    function in accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, structure corresponding
20  to a specified function includes any product programmed to perform the specified
    function. Such structure includes programmed products which perform the
    function, regardless of whether such product is programmed with (i) a disclosed
    algorithm for performing the function, (ii) an algorithm that is similar to a
    disclosed algorithm, or (iii) a different algorithm for performing the function.
25
    Where there is recited a means for performing a function hat is a method, one
    structure for performing this method includes a computing device (e.g., a general
    purpose computer) that is programmed and / or configured with appropriate
    hardware to perform that function.
30  Also includes a computing device (e.g., a general purpose computer) that is
    programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that
                                                13

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
    function via other algorithms as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in
    the art.
          VIII.      Disclaimer
 5           Numerous references to a particular embodiment does not indicate a
    disclaimer or disavowal of additional, different embodiments, and similarly
    references to the description of embodiments which all include a particular feature
    does not indicate a disclaimer or disavowal of embodiments which do not include
    that particular feature. A clear disclaimer or disavowal in the present application
10  shall be prefaced by the phrase "does not include" or by the phrase "cannot
    perform".
          IX.        Incorporation By Reference
             Any patent, patent application or other document referred to herein is
15  incorporated by reference into this patent application as part of the present
    disclosure, but only for purposes of written description in accordance with 35
    U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 1 and enablement in accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112,
    paragraph 1, and should in no way be used to limit, define, or otherwise construe
    any term of the present application where the present application, without such
20  incorporation by reference, would not have failed to provide an ascertainable
    meaning, but rather would have allowed an ascertainable meaning for such term to
    be provided. Thus, the person of ordinary skill in the art need not have been in any
    way limited by any embodiments provided in the reference
             Any incorporation by reference does not, in and of itself, imply any
25  endorsement of, ratification of or acquiescence in any statements, opinions,
    arguments or characterizations contained in any incorporated patent, patent
    application or other document, unless explicitly specified otherwise in this patent
    application.
30        X.         Prosecution History
             In interpreting the present application (which includes the claims), one of
    ordinary skill in the art shall refer to the prosecution history of the present
                                                 14

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    application, but not to the prosecution history of any other patent or patent
    application, regardless of whether there are other patent applications that are
    considered related to the present application, and regardless of whether there are
    other patent applications that share a claim of priority with the present application.
 5
    TailoredAds in Virtual Game Environments
    Various virtual game environments, interactive environments, role-playing
    environments, virtual worlds, virtual communities and other environments
    currently exist or may exist in the future. Examples include Second Life,
10  EverQuest, World of Warcraft, and Guild Wars.        Such environments may include
    slots, mediums, or other opportunities to display promotions, such as
    advertisements. The promotions may pertain to the virtual world or to the real
    world. For example, the promotions may be advertisements for products in the real
    world. For example, a virtual world billboard may advertise a soft drink that is
15  actually sold and drunk in the real world.
    In various embodiments, players or patrons of a virtual environment may register
    or otherwise supply information about themselves. For example, a player may
    provide a name and email address when registering to play in a virtual gaming
20  environment. Other information about the player may be derived in other ways.
    For example, information about the player may be collected from his playing
    habits. For example, information about the player may be collected detailing times
    of day when the player is active in the virtual community. From such information,
    for example, the player's sleeping hours and eating hours may be deduced. In
25  various embodiments, information about a player may be derived from interacting
    with his computer. For example, the interaction of the player's computer with the
    server operating the virtual environment may provide information about the
    player's physical location.
30  In various embodiments, information about a player or participant in a virtual
    environment may be used in selecting which promotions will be presented to the
    player. In various embodiments, information about a player or participant in a
                                               15

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
    virtual environment may be used in conjunction with current circumstances, such
    as time of day, in presenting promotions to the player.
    In various embodiments, a particular location in virtual world may display
 5  different promotions depending on which players are currently viewing that
    location. For example, suppose a player is driving on a road in a virtual world.
    The road may include a billboard which displays advertisements to passing cars.
    The player's real address may be on record with the server operating the virtual
    world. The real address may be in West Virginia, for example. Accordingly, the
10  virtual world may present a promotion on the billboard that relates to a business in
    West Virginia. For example, the promotion may be an advertisement for a take-out
    restaurant near to the player's house in West Virginia. When a second player
    drives by the same billboard in the virtual world, a different promotion may be
    displayed to the second player. The different promotion may be a promotion that
15  is tailored to information about the second player, such as to the second player's
    home address in the real world. In various embodiments, two players may see the
    same virtual location, but may see different promotions at the same location. Thus,
    it may be as if the two players are in parallel virtual universes in that they are in the
    same place at the same time, but see different things. The promotions shown to the
20  players may be tailored to the players' respective information.
    In various embodiments, promotions shown to a player may be chosen (e.g., by the
    game server) based on the time of day. For example, if it is local noon for a player
    in the real world, a promotion may be shown for a fast food restaurant. If it is the
25  evening, a promotion may be shown for a prime-time TV show.
    Pay a person to receive ads on his cellphone
    In various embodiments, a user of a mobile device, such as of a cell phone, may be
    paid to receive promotions at his mobile device. The person may receive payment
30  from his wireless carrier and/or from marketers. As payment, a person may
    receive cash, discounts off a cell phone bill (e.g., the person may have his cell
    phone bill reduced from $40 to $35), gift certificates (e.g., gift certificates for the
                                               16

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
    products being promoted by a marketer providing promotions to the person), and
    any other benefit. A person may agree to have a certain quantity of promotions
    downloaded to his mobile device. The quantity may include some quantity of
    playing time. For example, the quantity may include 1 hour's worth of promotions
 5  per month. The quantity may include some total number of promotions (e.g., 20
    promotions per month). The quantity may include some total bit or byte quantity
    of promotions. For example, the quantity may include 30 megabytes worth of
    promotions downloaded per month. A person may receive differing payments or
    benefits depending on the quantity of promotions downloaded. For example, a
10  person who has 20 minutes of promotions downloaded per week may receive a $10
    benefit per month, while a person who has 10 minutes of promotions downloaded
    per week may receive a $4 benefit per month.
    In various embodiments, promotions downloaded may include ring tones. One
15  possible benefit of a ring tone is that it may be heard not only by the owner of
    mobile device (e.g., a cell phone), but it may also be heard by others in the vicinity
    of the owner when the device rings. Thus, if the ring tone promotes a particular
    product or service, the promotion may reach more than just one person. In various
    embodiments, a person may be paid or may receive a benefit for downloading a
20  particular ring tone. In various embodiments, a person may receive a benefit for
    using a particular ring tone. For example, a cellular phone may report to the
    wireless carrier (or to any other business or authority) on the usage of a particular
    ring tone. A person may be paid according to this reported usage. In various
    embodiments, a person may be paid according to the number of phone calls he
25  receives and according to the number of times a particular ring tone is thereby
    played. In various embodiments, a person may be paid according to his or her
    location at the time that a ring tone is played from his cellular phone. For example,
    a person may be paid more if his ring tone goes off in a crowded or frequently
    trafficked area than if the ring tone goes off in an isolated area. In various
30  embodiments, a person may be paid according to the time of day that a ring tone
    goes off. For example, a person may be paid more if a ring tone goes off during a
                                                17

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
    busy time of day (e.g., during a lunch hour) than during a time of day when most
    people are at home or are at work in a particular area.
    Software which prevents or discouragesthe mobile device from presenting
 5  unauthorized ads (or other things).
    In various embodiments, a party that is not affiliated with the casino may attempt
    to transmit data for a promotion to a mobile gaming device. The party may wish to
    have a promotion presented on the mobile gaming device. In doing so, however,
    the party may be circumventing the casino, and may thereby be avoiding making
10  payments to the casino that are rightfully owed to the casino.
    In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may include software to prevent
    the presentation of unauthorized promotions.
15  In various embodiments, data for an authorized promotion may include a tag, label,
    or other associated data. The tag may be an authorization code, for example. A
    mobile gaming device may include software which can determine whether a tag is
    valid or not. For example, a valid tag may include a digital signature from the
    casino server. The mobile gaming device may include software that can check
20  whether the tag is a valid digital signature of the casino server. In various
    embodiments, a digital signature may incorporate data from a promotion. Thus,
    another party may be unable to effectively take a digital signature from an
    authorized promotion and move it to an unauthorized promotion.
25  In various embodiments, data associated with a promotion may include a time
    stamp. The time stamp may indicate, for example, when a promotion was
    approved by the casino server or by some other authoritative body. A mobile
    gaming device may include software for determining whether a time stamp
    represents a time in the recent past. If the time represented by a time stamp is too
30  far in the past, then the mobile gaming device may prevent the promotion from
    being displayed. In various embodiments, a promotion must be displayed within a
    certain amount of time of receiving a time stamp. Thus, a party that attempts to
                                               18

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    intercept an old time stamp, attach it to an unauthorized promotion, and then
    display the promotion, may be foiled. In some embodiments, a time stamp
    provided by an authorized body, such as by the casino server, may incorporate the
    data of the promotion. Thus, another party may be unable to take a time stamp
 5  associated with one promotion and use it for another.
    In various embodiments, data associated with a promotion may be encrypted on
    route to a mobile gaming device. For example, the casino server may use its
    private key to encrypt data associated with a promotion. The mobile gaming
10  device may then use the casino server's public key to decrypt data associated with
    the promotion, and to then present the unencrypted promotion. A party that
    attempts to transmit an unauthorized promotion to a mobile gaming device may not
    have access to the casino server's private key. Therefore, the party may not be
    able to pass off the unauthorized promotion as a legitimate promotion.
15
    In various embodiments, a human screener may view a presentation of a promotion
    before it is presented to a person via a mobile gaming device. If the promotion
    does not meet certain criteria, the human screener may prevent the promotion from
    being presented. The human screener may flag the promotion, for instance, with a
20  tag that prevents the casino server from transmitting the promotion to a mobile
    gaming device.
    In various embodiments, a player may have the opportunity to indicate a reaction
    to a promotion. The player may indicate, for example, that he liked the promotion,
25  that the promotion was funny, that the promotion was relevant to him, that the
    promotion was of the right length, that the promotion was of the right volume, that
    the promotion was for a product or service about which the player would like to
    learn more, and so on. The player may rate the promotion using a numerical
    rating, for example. For instance, the player may give the promotion a rating of 1
30  to 5 on a scale of relevance. In various embodiments, a player may furnish a
    negative reaction as well. A player may indicate that a promotion was offensive,
    irrelevant, too long, too distracting, or in any other way undesirable.
                                                19

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    A player's reaction to a promotion may be forwarded by the casino server to the
    marketer that originated the promotion. The marketer may thereby have an
    opportunity to design a better promotion. The player's reaction may also be used
 5  to build a profile for the player. The profile may include a set of preferences of the
    player. The profile may be used to determine future promotions that should be
    presented to the player.
    A player's reaction to a promotion may be used in preventing a promotion from
10  being presented to other players. A player may flag a promotion as offensive or
    inappropriate, for example. The casino server may then decide not to present the
    promotion any further. In some embodiments, if a player flags a promotion, a
    casino representative may view the promotion. The casino representative may then
    decide whether or not to continue presenting the promotion. In various
15  embodiments, a promotion may no longer be presented if it is flagged by a
    predetermined number of players. For example, if three or more players tag a
    promotion as inappropriate, the casino server may cease presentation of the
    promotion. The casino server may halt the presentation of a promotion by failing
    to transmit data for the promotion to any further mobile gaming devices. The
20  casino server may halt the presentation of a promotion by sending a signal to one
    or more mobile gaming devices with data describing the promotion already stored
    locally on the mobile gaming devices. The casino server may instruct the mobile
    gaming devices not to present such promotions. The casino server may instruct the
    mobile gaming devices to delete such promotions.
25
    In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may inform the casino server
    when a promotion has been presented. For example, the mobile gaming device
    may inform the casino server of date and time when a promotion was presented.
    The mobile gaming device may further provide an identifier for the promotion.
30  The casino server may then bill the marketer who sent the promotion for the
    presentation of the promotion. In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device
    may transmit one or more of the following pieces of information to the casino
                                              20

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
    server: (a) the date of a promotion's presentation; (b) the time of a promotion's
    presentation; (c) an indication of which promotion was presented (e.g., an
    identifier for a promotion; e.g., "The Ford Promotion"); (d) a format in which a
    promotion was presented (e.g., a promotion was presented only as a still image;
 5  e.g., a promotion was presented in its abbreviated 3 second form; e.g., a promotion
    was presented in its full 20 second form; e.g., a promotion was presented as audio
    only); (e) a sponsor of a promotion; (f) a length of a promotion; (g) a game during
    which a promotion was presented; (h) a location on a display screen where a
    promotion was presented; (i) one or more outcomes which occurred on the player's
10  mobile gaming device preceding the promotion (e.g., a promotion may cost a
    marketer more if the promotion was made following a string of winning outcomes
    for the player); (j) a player's reaction to a promotion (e.g., the player wished to
    find out more information; e.g., the player was bored with the promotion); (k) and
    any other pertinent information.
15
    In various embodiments, the casino server may include accounting software. The
    software may track when promotions have been presented, how much is owed to
    the casino based on such presentations, how many remaining presentations of a
    promotion must be made, how much has already been paid by a marketer, who a
20  promotion has been presented to, and any other information related to a promotion
    and amounts.
    In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may verify with the casino server
    that a promotion should be presented before actually presenting the promotion.
25  For example, the mobile gaming device may send an identifier associated with the
    promotion to the casino server. The casino server may check a record of
    promotions that had been transmitted to the mobile gaming device. If the record
    does not contain the identifier transmitted to the casino server by the mobile
    gaming device, then the casino server may instruct the mobile gaming device not
30  to present the promotion that the mobile gaming device had indicated.
                                                21

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
    Preventpresentation ofpromotions that are confusing and look like symbols
    In various embodiments, certain types of promotions may be barred from
    presentation because of the possibility that the promotions would be confusing or
    misleading. As an illustration, a promotion may be presented in place of a symbol.
 5  If the promotion looks like a jackpot symbol, then a player may believe he has won
    a large prize when the promotion lines up with several real jackpot symbols. The
    player would be sorely disappointed to find that he had not won as much as he
    thought.
10  In various embodiments, the casino server may contain software for analyzing
    images associated with promotions. The software may use image recognition or
    image comparison algorithms to ensure that images shown in promotions look
    sufficiently distinct from images typically seen in a game. For example, image
    processing algorithms may be used to determine a border for a symbol. Image
15  processing algorithms may similarly be used to determine a border for a graphic in
    a promotion. The two borders may be represented with looped black lines, for
    example. The two borders may then be overlain on top of one another. If the two
    borders fall within a predetermined distance of one another (e.g., within three
    pixels) over their entire lengths, then the borders may be construed to define
20  similar shapes. The promotion may be barred based on the fact that it contains a
    graphic which is shaped similarly to a symbol. In various embodiments,
    coincidence of both shape and color may be sufficient reason to bar a promotional
    graphic. As will be appreciated, many other algorithms may be used to perform
    image recognition and / or image comparison.
25
    In various embodiments, comparisons of promotional images with images used in
    a game may be performed on a mobile gaming device. For example, a mobile
    gaming device may store software for performing image comparisons and / or
    image recognition. In various embodiments, comparisons of promotional images
30  with images used in a game may be performed on a stationary gaming device.
                                               22

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    In various embodiments, promotions may be restricted such that the promotions
    may be presented only with certain games. The restrictions may be based on a
    comparison between images in a promotion and between images in a game. If
    images in a promotion look too similar to the images in a game, presentation of the
 5  promotion may be unallowable in conjunction with a game. However, if images in
    a promotion do not look too similar to images in a game, then the presentation of
    the promotion may be allowed in conjunction with a game. Thus, in various
    embodiments, it may be permissible to present a given promotion in conjunction
    with a first game, but not in conjunction with a second game. For example,
10  suppose a promotion comprises an image that is presented on the reels of a slot
    machine game. The promotion may be presented with a first slot machine game,
    but not with a second slot machine game.
    In various embodiments, it may be permissible to present a promotion at a certain
15  location on a display screen, but not at another location. It may be impermissible
    to present a promotion in a first location on a display screen if images in the
    promotion might be confused with standard game elements or images. For
    example, if an image in a promotion looks like a symbol used in a game, it may be
    impermissible to present the promotion within the game area (e.g., on the reel
20  symbols; e.g., in an area where cards are typically dealt). However, it may still be
    permissible to present the promotion in another area of the screen. For example, it
    may still be permissible to present the promotion to the right of the game area. As
    another example, a promotion may include images which show numerals (e.g.,
    "5% APR on a new credit card!"). It may be impermissible to present such a
25  promotion in a location where numerals are typically presented as part of a game.
    For example, a presenting a promotion with images of numerals may be
    impermissible near an area where a player's credit balance is typically displayed.
    Thus, in various embodiments, software may compare images in promotions to
    images typically seen at different areas of a display screen. Image comparison
30  algorithms may be used. If the images of a promotion are too similar to those of
    standard game elements in a particular area of a display screen, then it may be
    made impermissible for the promotion to be presented in that area. On the other
                                               23

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    hand, if there is not too much similarity between the images in the promotion and
    between the images of typical game elements in an area, then the promotion may
    be presented in that area. In various embodiments, humans may visually compare
    images, or may otherwise make a determination as to whether it is permissible for
 5  a promotion to be displayed in a particular area of a display screen. The foregoing
    may be understood with respect to a mobile gaming device or to a gaming device,
    in various embodiments.
    In various embodiments, it may be permissible to present a promotion at one time
10  during a game, but not at another time. For example, certain images associated
    with a game may typically arise only during a single stage of the game. Such
    images may not arise at other points in the game. Accordingly, the presentation of
    promotions showing similarly looking images may be permissible only during
    those stages when the game images are not typically displayed. For example, a
15  slot machine game may include a bonus round. The bonus round may include
    images that are not seen in the earlier stages of the game. Thus, presentation of
    promotions which include images similar to those shown in the bonus round may
    be impermissible during the bonus round, but permissible during other stages of
    the game.
20
    In various embodiments, certain colors may be impermissible in a promotion.
    Such colors may be the same colors as symbols or other game elements. In various
    embodiments, certain shapes may be impermissible in a promotion. Such shapes
    may be shapes used as symbols or other game elements. In various embodiments,
25  a list, table, or other indicator of prohibited shapes may be published, posted,
    transmitted to marketers, or otherwise made available.
    In various embodiments, game developers may submit graphics or indications of
    graphics used in their games. The game developers may submit such graphics to a
30  regulator, to a marketer, to a casino server, or to another party. Graphics from
    different games may be stored together or may be stored in association with one
    another, such as being stored in a single database or set of linked databases.
                                                 24

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
    Marketers may then refer to the graphics in order to design promotions that have
    dissimilar graphics. A regulator or casino server may similarly compare game
    graphics to promotional graphics to ensure there is not a conflict.
 5  In various embodiments, a consulting company or other company may have access
    to a database or other conglomeration of graphics used in games. The company
    may help marketers design promotions that do not use graphics too similar to those
    used in games. In various embodiments, the consulting company may have private
    access to the conglomeration of symbols, e.g., so game developers do not have to
10  share knowledge of graphics with competing developers.
    In various embodiments, humans may be used to compare graphics used in
    promotions to graphics used in a game. In various embodiments, a human tester
    may play a game that features promotions. The human may later be asked whether
15  they were ever confused or mislead by a promotion. For example, the human may
    ask whether they ever thought they had won something when they did not. If the
    human reports that they were not confused, then the promotions may be permitted
    as part of the game. In various embodiments, a test may require a certain number
    of people to report that they were not confused. For example, a test must involve
20  at least six people, and all must report that they were not confused by a promotion.
    In various embodiments, sounds associated with a promotion may be compared to
    the sounds featured in a game. In various embodiments, an algorithm may be used
    to compare the sounds of a promotion with the sounds featured in a game. The
25  algorithm may compare tones, tempos, rhythms, musical keys, volume,
    instrumental sounds (e.g., violin, e.g., piano), or any other feature of sounds. In
    various embodiments, if the sounds of a promotion are deemed to be too similar to
    sounds featured in a game, presentation of the promotion may made impermissible
    in the game. In various embodiments, if sounds in a promotion are deemed to be
30  too similar to those in a game, the promotion may be presented, but without the
    sounds. For example, the promotion may be presented using only graphics.
                                               25

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
    In various embodiments, humans may listen to sounds from a promotion and from
    a game. The human may use his own judgment to determine whether the sounds
    of the promotion might be confused with the sounds of the game. In various
    embodiments, a group of test subjects listens to both sounds. Only if none, or less
 5  than a predetermined number of the test subjects says that the sounds would not be
    confusing may the promotion be allowed for presentation in the game. In various
    embodiments, one or more test subjects is allowed to play a game in which a
    promotion was presented. The test subjects are then asked whether they were
    confused by the promotion, e.g., whether they at any time thought that sounds from
10  the promotion had something to do with the game. Only if the subjects report no
    confusion may the promotion be used in the game, in various embodiments.
    In various embodiments, it may be impermissible to show faces in promotions. In
    various embodiments, it may be impermissible to show a face in a promotion
15  without having received prior approval from the face's owner. In various
    embodiments, software or a human may analyze graphics associated with a
    promotion to determine whether there are any faces in the promotion. For
    example, face recognition algorithms may be used to detect faces in promotions.
    In various embodiments, the use of certain celebrity faces may be impermissible in
20  promotions. For example, the celebrities may have failed to supply permission for
    appearing in promotions. Humans or algorithms, such as face recognition
    algorithms, may be used to compare faces appearing in promotions to known faces
    of celebrities so as to ensure that the celebrities do not appear in the promotions.
25  In various embodiments, humans or software may be used to ensure a promotion
    does not contain certain words. For example, software may check for vulgar or
    obscene words.
    In various embodiments, software may ensure that data for a promotion is in a
30  satisfactory format. For example, software may check that data for an image meets
    certain dimensions or pixel constraints. For example, the software may verify that
    image data represents an image of exactly 100 pixels by 200 pixels. As another
                                                26

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
    example, software may verify that an image contains the proper color encoding.
    For example, software may verify that an image for a promotion uses eight bits to
    describe each of the three primary colors. In various embodiments, software may
    verify that data describing a promotion is not excessive. For example, a promotion
 5  may be limited to 10 megabytes or to any other limit.
    In various embodiments the casino server may transmit instructions to a mobile
    gaming device. The instructions may tell the mobile gaming device to present a
    promotion when, or only when the mobile gaming device is in a particular area of a
10  casino. For example, the casino server may instruct the mobile gaming device to
    present a promotion only when the mobile gaming device is within ten feet of a
    particular restaurant. As another example, the casino server may instruct the
    mobile gaming device to present a promotion only when the mobile gaming device
    is in the swimming area of a casino.
15
    Offering to transfer a playerfrom a mobile gaming device to a stationarygaming
    device
    In various embodiments, a player may be involved in gaming on a mobile gaming
    device. The player may wish to play the same game at a stationary gaming device.
20  For example, the stationary gaming device may afford the player a place to sit,
    may feature a larger display screen, may feature improved sound, or may have any
    other advantage or convenience. In various embodiments, the casino server may
    offer the player the chance to transfer from playing a game at a mobile gaming
    device to playing a game at a stationary gaming device. The player may have the
25  chance to transfer to a stationary gaming device and play the same game that he
    had been playing at a mobile gaming device.
    When a player transfers from a mobile gaming device to a stationary device, any
    credit balance that the player has with the mobile gaming device may be
30  transferred to the stationary device. Thus, for example, the stationary device may
    create a credit balance equal to the credit balance on the mobile gaming device,
    while the credit balance of the mobile gaming device may be set to zero. In
                                               27

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    various embodiments, the player may be given additional credits at the stationary
    device, e.g., as an incentive for transferring. In various embodiments, the player
    may be given fewer credits at the stationary device. In various embodiments, some
    of the player's credits may be transferred and some may remain on the mobile
 5  gaming device.
    When offering the player the chance to transfer, the casino server may provide an
    indication of the location of the stationary device. For example, the casino server
    may transmit to the player's mobile gaming device an indication of the location of
10  the stationary device. The casino server may also indicate directions to the
    stationary gaming device. The directions may include directions from a standard
    location in the casino (e.g., from the front entrance) or from the current location of
    the mobile gaming device. In various embodiments, directions may include
    directions from the current location of the mobile gaming device.
15
    Conducting
    As used herein, the term "conducting" may be used in the context of a game, such
    as in the phrase "conducting a game". Conducting a game may include receiving a
    bet, storing a record of the amount of the bet, determining or generating an
20  outcome of a game (e.g., such as by the execution of an algorithm for generating
    random outcome), determining an amount to be paid out as a payout based on the
    outcome and the bet (e.g., determining a multiple of the bet to be paid out in the
    event of a winning outcome), paying or directing that the payout be paid, and
    performing any other aspect of a game. In various embodiments, a game may be
25  conducted by a remote entity. For example, though a player may interact with a
    mobile gaming device, the casino server may generate the outcomes that occur in
    games of the player. In various embodiments, a game may be conducted by a
    proximate entity, such as a mobile gaming device with which a player interacts. In
    various embodiments, a game may be conducted jointly by a proximate and remote
30  entity. For example, a mobile gaming device and the casino server may jointly
    conduct a game.
                                                28

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    Stationary device
    As used herein, the term "stationary device" may include a stationary game gaming
    device, a terminal used for gaming, and a table game. For example, a stationary
    device may include a slot machine, a video poker machine, a terminal at which
 5  players may place bets, a blackjack table, and a poker table.
    In various embodiments, the casino server may provide instructions to a mobile
    gaming device. The instructions may indicate where the mobile gaming device
    should be before a promotion may be presented. For example, a mobile gaming
10  device must be near a particular bar before a promotion must be presented. The
    promotion may be a promotion for an alcoholic beverage, for example.
    Demographic
    As used herein, the term demographic may refer to an age, age range, race, gender,
15  income level, range of income levels, marital status, level of education, presence or
    absence of children, number of children, net worth, language spoken, religion,
    political orientation, or to any other characteristic which may be used to classify a
    person into some segment of the population.
    House edge, house advantage
20  As used herein, the terms "house edge" and "house advantage" may refer to an
    amount that the house is expected to retain, on average, per unit bet by the player.
    The house edge may be expressed in percentage terms. For example, a house edge
    of 5% may indicate that the house can expect to retain 5 cents on average per
    dollar bet by a player. It should be noted that a statement of a house edge does not
25  imply that the house will necessarily retain the stated amount of a player's bet on
    each game. The house edge, rather, refers to an expectation or average. For
    example, suppose a player bets $1 on a game in which he has a 45% chance of
    winning $2, and a 55% chance of winning nothing. The house edge may be
    calculated as (0.55*($1 - $0) + 0.45*($1 - $2))/$1    = 10%. Thus, the house may
30  expect to win 10 cents per dollar wagered by the player.
                                               29

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    Outcome
    As used herein, the term "outcome" may refer a set of symbols or indicia which
    may be obtained (e.g., randomly generated; e.g., selected by a player) in a game
    (e.g., in a game played with a wager), and which may determine a course or
 5  direction in the game and/or which may determine a payment or prize to be
    awarded from the game. The term "outcome" may, in various embodiments, refer
    both to symbols and indicia and to the payment or prize awarded in a game. The
    term "outcome" may, in various embodiments, refer to the prize or payment
    awarded in a game. In various embodiments, multiple outcomes may occur during
10  a game. For example, in a slot machine game, each activated pay-line may feature
    a different outcome. Further, in various embodiments, a game may include a
    succession of outcomes. For example, in a game of video poker, an initial set of
    five cards dealt to a player may constitute a first outcome. The final hand of cards
    obtained by the player after discarding cards from the initial set of five cards may
15  constitute a second outcome. In various embodiments, the aggregate effect of
    several outcomes in a game may itself constitute an outcome. For example, in a
    slot machine game, a player may activate three pay-lines and may thereby receive
    three outcomes. Payouts associated with the three outcomes may be 2 coins, 5
    coins, and 3 coins. Thus, the aggregate outcome of the game may be that the
20  player receives a payout of 10 coins. Examples of outcomes include: (a) a set of
    symbols achieved across the pay-line of a reel slot machine; (b) a set of cards dealt
    in a game of poker; (c) a set of cards dealt in a game of blackjack; (d) a player
    hand in a game of blackjack; (e) a player hand in combination with a dealer hand
    in blackjack (i.e., an outcome in a game of blackjack may include cards received
25  by a player and cards received by a dealer); (f) a number rolled in a game of craps;
    (g) a series of numbers rolled in a game of craps (e.g., in a game of craps, an
    outcome may include the entire series of numbers rolled between the time a player
    made a bet and the time the player was paid for his bet or lost his bet); (g) a set of
    numbers generated in a game of keno; (h) a prize amount revealed in a bonus
30  round; and so on.
                                              30

 WO 2008/070787                                                             PCT/US2007/086661
    Product
    As used herein, the term "product" may include a good. As used herein, the term
    "product" may include a service.
 5  Gaming
    As used herein, the term "gaming" may refer to placing a first value at risk on one
    or more events whose outcomes cannot be predicted with certainty, with the
    possibility of winning a second value should a particular outcome of the event(s)
    actually occur. Gaming may include: (a) betting money on the outcome of a roll of
10  dice; (b) betting money on the deal of one or more cards; (c) betting money on the
    spinning of a wheel; (d) betting money on the spinning of slot machine reels; (e)
    betting money on the outcome of a sporting contest; (f) betting money on the
    outcome of an election; (g) betting money on the occurrence of a natural event,
    such as a hurricane; and betting money on any other event which cannot be
15  predicted with certainty. Gaming may include: (a) playing a game of poker with
    money at risk; (b) playing a game of craps with money at risk; (c) playing a game
    of roulette with money at risk; (d) betting money on the outcome of a football
    game; or betting money on any other game or contest. The "value" placed at risk
    in gaming may include anything that may be of benefit to a person or other entity,
20  whether or not the benefit may be experienced by the person engaging in gaming.
    Value may be tangible or intangible. Value may include: (a) cash; (b) credits; (c)
    tokens; (d) rights (e.g., the right to bypass a line for a buffet; e.g., the right to a free
    spin at a slot machine); (e) products; (f) services; (g) comp points; (h) coupons; (i)
    vouchers; (j) movie tickets; (k) the right to receive a loan; (1) frequent flyer miles;
25  and any other item of value. The value that may be won from gaming need not be
    of the same type as that placed at risk. For example, a person may put at risk cash
    in order to win movie tickets. The events which are the subject of gaming may be
    predictable in principle, but may not be predictable given applicable rules,
    standards, or capabilities. For example, a person may be able to predict which
30  cards will be dealt by rigging a deck of cards. However, rigging the deck of cards
    would be contrary to the rules of the game. Placing an item of value at risk may
    include allowing the possibility that some or all of the item of value will be lost.
                                                31

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
    Gaming may include placing value at risk even if such value is not in the
    possession of the gamer. For example, a business owner may bet half of his future
    business profits for the forthcoming calendar year. Gaming may include investing,
    such as investing in the stock or bond market. Gaming may further include taking
 5  a derivative position, such as buying puts or calls on stocks.
    Detection of one device by another
    Various embodiments described herein may refer to the interaction between a first
    device and a "nearby" second device. In various embodiments, the first device
10  may take action if the second device is nearby. In various embodiments, the
    second device may take action if the first device is nearby. When terms such as
    "nearby", "near", "close", "proximate", "presence", or the like are used, it will be
    understood that the first device may recognize the presence of the second device in
    various ways, that the second device may recognize the presence of the first device
15  in various ways, that the first device may react to the presence of the second device
    in various ways, and that the second device may react to the first device in various
    ways. It may be noted that the first device may react to the presence of the second
    device without recognizing the presence of the second device if, for example, the
    first device is instructed to take an action by a third device which recognizes that
20  the second device is near to the first device. In various embodiments, the first
    device and/or the second device may be in motion. For example, the first device
    may be moving (e.g., the first device may be carried by a walking person) while
    the second device may be stationary.
25  Various technologies may allow a first device to recognize and/or to react to the
    presence of a second device. Various technologies may allow a second device to
    recognize and/or to react to the presence of a first device. As used herein, the term
    "beacon" includes a device which generates a signal which may be used as a
    reference signal by another device or person, e.g., so that the other device may
30  determine its own location or position. A beacon may emit a continuous, periodic,
    sporadic, or other type of signal. A beacon may emit a directed signal (e.g., a
    signal which is most easily detected by devices at a certain incident angle to the
                                                32

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
    beacon) or the beacon may emit a signal of equal strength in all directions. A
    beacon may emit a signal when triggered by the presence of another device, or may
    emit a signal independently of other events. A beacon may have, as its sole
    function, the broadcast of a reference signal. A beacon may serve as a beacon only
 5  incidentally. For example, a light bulb may incidentally serve as a beacon even
    though its primary purpose may be to light a room. A beacon may be natural (e.g.,
    the sun) or man-made. A beacon may emit light, sound, radio waves, microwaves,
    odors, or any other form of signals.
    *   Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags or transponders are devices,
10      generally small, that can transmit signals and/or redirect signals, and use such
        signals as a means for providing identification. The transmitted or redirected
        signals are generally radio waves. Signals which are transmitted or redirected
        may contain a unique signature or pattern, which may serve to uniquely
        identify the RFID tag. If the tag is associated with a device (e.g., by
15      attachment or by incorporation into the device), then the unique identification
        of the tag can, by association, serve to uniquely identify the device.
    *   Near field communication (NFC) is a technology that allows for secure
        wireless communication over short distances, typically in the range of inches.
        An exemplary application has been tested by Motorola and Mastercard, in
20      which cellular phones are outfitted with NFC to allow for credit card payments
        using cellular phones.
    *   Infrared data transmission can be used as a means of communication between
        two nearby devices. For example, an infrared light-emitting diode (LED) can
        be used to generate signals. The signal pattern can be created by switching the
25      LED on and off. A receiver may include a silicon photodiode, which may
        convert incident infrared light into electrical signals. Infrared signals may also
        be transmitted with lasers.
    *   A device may be recognized by means of a captured picture or image of the
        device. For example, a first device may take a picture of a second device. The
30      first device may use image processing algorithms to detect salient features of
        the second device. For example, if the second device has a pattern of black and
                                               33

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
        white stripes, then the first device may search for such a pattern within
        captured images.
    *   One or more devices may use positioning technologies to determine their own
        location. Once the locations of two devices are known, simple algorithms may
 5      be used to determine whether the devices are close to one another or not. For
        example, the distances between two devices with known x and y coordinates
        can be at least approximated using the Pythagorean Theorem. Various
        positioning technologies may be used. For example, a device may receive a
        signal from a beacon or other signal generator of a known location.
10      Particularly if the beacon has a short range, the device's position may be
        assumed to approximate the position of the beacon. In various embodiments, a
        device may receive signals from multiple beacons or signal generators. The
        signal generators may coordinate to transmit the signals simultaneously.
        However, depending on the device's location, the device will not necessarily
15      receive the signals from all the beacons at the same time. For example, if the
        device is closer to beacon 1 than to beacon 2, the device will receive the signal
        from beacon 1 prior to receiving the signal from beacon 2. Based on the arrival
        times of signals from the various beacons, the device's location may be
        deduced. For example, geometric or trigonometric algorithms may be used to
20      determine the location of the device based on the known locations of the
        beacons and based on the arrival times of simultaneously transmitted signals
        from the beacons. In an analogous fashion to systems involving beacons,
        positioning systems may make use of receivers at known locations (e.g., fixed
        receivers). The fixed receivers each receive a signal from the device about
25      which a location is desired. The same signal from the device might arrive at
        the different receivers at different times, or from different angles. Based on the
        arrival times or angles of arrival of the signal at the various receivers,
        algorithms may be used to determine the location of the device. Exemplary
        positioning systems are as follows:
30           o   The Global Positioning System (GPS) is based on a constellation of
                 satellites which transmit reference signals to locations on earth. GPS
                                                34

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
                 receivers can pick up reference signals from multiple satellites and use
                 the signals to determine a position and/or an altitude.
             o   Long Range Navigation (LORAN) is a navigation based on earth-based
                 radio transmitters. The location of a device can be estimated based on
 5               differences in arrival times at the device of signals from three or more
                 transmitters.
             o   Radiolocation using the cellular telephone network is a system whereby
                 cellular base stations serve as fixed receivers. The signal from a
                 cellular phone may be received at multiple base stations. The location
10               of the cellular phone may be determined based on when a signal from
                 the cellular phone was received at each of the base stations, based on
                 the angle with which a signal from the cell phone was received at each
                 of the base stations, and/or based on characteristic distortions in the cell
                 phone signal that would indicate a particular location of origin of the
15               signal.
    *   A first device may emit an audio signal. The audio signal may consist of a
        distinct series of notes or pulses. A second device may pick up the audio signal
        using a microphone, for example. The second device may recognize the
        distinctive pattern of the audio signal and may thereby deduce the presence of
20      the first device. In a similar fashion, the second device may emit an audio
        signal which may allow the first device to identify the second device.
    *   A first device may recognize the presence of a second device from physical or
        electronic contact. For example, a first device may have a port where a second
        device can be docked. When docked, the second device may come into
25      electrical contact with the first device. The first device may thereby recognize
        the presence of the second device and/or the second device may thereby
        recognize the presence of the first device.
    There are various ways in which one or more devices may detect the presence of
30  one or more other devices. There are various ways in which the proximity of two
    devices may be determined.
                                                35

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
    *   A first device may detect a signal from a second device. The first device may
        thereby detect the presence of the second device.
    *   A first device may determine its own location. For example, the first device
        may use a positioning system to determine its own location. The first device
 5      may already know the location of the second device. For example, the second
        device may be at a well-known, fixed location. The first device may have
        stored in memory the location of the second device. Once the first device
        knows its own location and that of the second device, the first device may
        deduce (e.g., using geometric algorithms) when the first device is near to the
10      second device.
    *   A third device may detect the position of a first device, e.g., using a positioning
        system. The third device may know the position of a second device. The third
        device can then inform the first, second, or both devices of the positions of
        either or both of the first and second devices. The first device may thereby
15      determine whether it is proximate to the second device. The second device
        may thereby determine whether it is proximate to the first device. In some
        embodiments, the third device may inform the first device that the first device
        is near the second device. In some embodiments, the third device may inform
        the second device that it is near the first device. In some embodiments, the
20      third device may instruct the first device to take some action based on the fact
        that the first device is near to the second device, without necessarily informing
        the first device that the first device is near the second device. In some
        embodiments, the third device may instruct the second device to take some
        action based on the fact that the second device is near to the first device,
25      without necessarily informing the second device that the second device is near
        the first device.
    *   A third device may detect the positions of both a first device and a second
        device. The third device can then inform the first, second, or both devices as
        above. That is, the third device may inform the first and/or second devices of
30      the first and/or second devices' positions or of the fact that the first and second
        devices are near to each other. The third device may also provide instructions
                                                 36

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
        to the first and/or to the second device based on the fact that the two devices
        are near to each other.
    * A third device may detect the position of a first device. A fourth device may
        detect the position of a second device. The third and fourth devices may then
 5      inform the first device of both positions. The third and fourth devices may
        inform the second device of both positions. The third and fourth devices may
        inform the first device that the first device is near the second device. The third
        and fourth devices may inform the second device that the first device is near
        the second device. The third and/or fourth devices may instruct the first device
10      to take some action based on the fact that the first device is near the second
        device. The third and/or fourth devices may instruct the second device to take
        some action based on the fact that the first device is near the second device.
        The fourth device may inform the third device of the position of the second
        device. The third device may inform the first device of the positions of the first
15      device and the second device. The third device may inform the first device that
        the first device is near the second device. The third device may inform the first
        device to take some action based on the fact that the first device is near the
        second device. The third device may inform the second device of the positions
        of the first device and the second device. The third device may inform the
20      second device that the first device is near the second device. The third device
        may inform the second device to take some action based on the fact that the
        first device is near the second device.
    * A third device may detect the position of a first device. A fourth device may
        detect the position of a second device. The third and fourth devices may
25      inform a fifth device of both positions. The fifth device may inform the first
        and/or second devices of both positions. The fifth device may inform the first
        device that it is near to the second device. The fifth device may inform the
        second device that it is near to the first device. The fifth device may instruct
        the first device to take some action based on the fact that the first device is near
30      the second device. The fifth device may instruct the second device to take
        some action based on the fact that the second device is near the first device.
                                                37

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
    Transmission and Communication
    Various embodiments described herein describe the "transmission" or
    "communication" of a digital or electronic composition, such as a digital image, a
    text file, a computer program, an audio file, a video file, or any other object or
 5  entity. Transmission or communication of a digital or electronic composition may
    include transmission of data such that the data alone is sufficient to entirely
    reconstruct the composition. For example, the transmission of a digital image may
    include the transmission of one million bytes of data, each byte characterizing one
    of the pixels in the digital image, such that the digital image may be completely
10  reconstructed from the data alone. Transmission or communication of a digital or
    electronic composition may include transmission of a data such that the transmitted
    data may be used in combination with other data to reconstruct the composition.
    For example, a digital image may be transmitted in a compressed format. The data
    that is transmitted may be used in combination with data describing a
15  decompression algorithm in order to reconstruct the digital image. Transmission
    or communication of a digital or electronic composition may include transmission
    of a data which indicates or characterizes the composition such that the
    composition can be retrieved or acquired elsewhere. For example, data describing
    the title of an image may be communicated from a first device to a second device.
20  The second device may have various images already stored on the second device
    and indexed by title. The second device may reconstruct the image that was
    communicated from the first device by using the title to retrieve a complete
    description of the second image from storage on the second device.
25  In various embodiments, transmission or communication of a promotion may
    include transmission or communication of a digital or electronic composition.
    Encode
    As used herein, a signal that "encodes" a digital or electronic composition may
30  include sufficient data to reconstruct the composition from the data alone. For
    example, a signal that encodes an advertisement consisting of an image may
    include data which is sufficient, on its own, to reconstruct the image.
                                               38

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
    As used herein, a signal that "identifies" a digital or electronic composition may
    include data that provides information indicating where or how the composition
    may be retrieved. A signal that identifies a digital or electronic composition may
 5  include data that provides a name, title, or other identifier for the composition such
    that the composition can be retrieved from a database or other storage medium
    using the name, title or other identifier.
    Encryption
10  As used herein, the term "encryption" may refer to a process for obscuring or
    hiding information so that the information is not readily understandable without
    special knowledge. The process of encryption may transform raw information,
    called plaintext, into encrypted information. The encrypted information may be
    called ciphertext, and the algorithm for transforming the plaintext into ciphertext
15  may be referred to as a cipher. A cipher may also be used for performing the
    reverse operation of converting the ciphertext back into plaintext. Examples of
    ciphers include substitution ciphers, transposition ciphers, and ciphers
    implemented using rotor machines.
20  In various encryption methods, ciphers may require a supplementary piece of
    information called a key. A key may consist, for example, of a string of bits. A
    key may be used in conjunction with a cipher to encrypt plaintext. A key may also
    be used in conjunction with a cipher to decrypt ciphertext. In a category of ciphers
    called symmetric key algorithms (e.g., private-key cryptography), the same key is
25  used for both encryption and decryption. The sanctity of the encrypted information
    may thus depend on the key being kept secret. Examples of symmetric key
    algorithms are DES and AES. In a category of ciphers called asymmetric key
    algorithms (e.g., public-key cryptography), different keys are used for encryption
    and decryption. With an asymmetric key algorithm, any member of the public may
30  use a first key (e.g., a public key) to encrypt plaintext into ciphertext. However,
    only the holder of a second key (e.g., the private key) will be able to decrypt the
                                                39

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
    ciphertext back in to plaintext. An example of an asymmetric key algorithm is the
    RSA algorithm.
    It will be appreciated that other methods besides encryption may be used to hide or
 5  obscure information, such as encoding or steganography.        Such methods may also
    be used in conjunction with cryptography.
    Encryption may be used to:
        *    Send a message only specific recipients can read. For example, Alice and
10           Bob may both be in possession of the same secret key. Alice may encrypt a
             plaintext message with the secret key. She may transmit the resultant
             ciphertext to Bob. Bob may then decrypt the cyphertext using the secret
             key so as to view the plaintext version of the message.
        *    Allow messages to be encrypted by many and decrypted only by one (e.g.,
15           PGP). For example, Alice may possess a public and a private key. Bob
             may wish to send Alice a message that only Alice will be able to read. Bob
             may create a message in plaintext and encrypt it using Alice's public key.
             Bob may send the resultant ciphertext to Alice. Alice may then decrypt the
             ciphertext using her private key, and may thereby view the plaintext
20           message. Should Cindy intercept the ciphertext message on its way from
             Bob to Alice, Cindy would not be able to decrypt the message since Cindy
             would not have access to Alice's private key. Alice's public key, although
             available to Cindy, would not be sufficient to decrypt the ciphertext
             message in a practicable amount of time.
25      e    Authenticate the sender of a message. This use of encryption may include
             having the sender create a digital signature. For example, Alice would like
             to send a message to Bob in such a way that Bob can be confident that the
             message has come from her. Alice may construct a plaintext message and
             encrypt the plaintext into ciphertext using her private key. Alice may then
30           send the ciphertext message to Bob. Bob may then use Alice's public key
             to decrypt the ciphertext back in to plaintext. Since Alice's public key only
             works to decrypt a ciphertext message created using Alice's private key,
                                                40

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
            and since presumably only Alice has access to her own private key, Bob
            can be confident that the message originated from Alice.
        *   Allow for non-repudiation. If a sender has applied a digital signature to a
            message, or portion of a message, then the sender will not later be able to
 5          claim he did not send the message.
        *   Guarantee a time/ data sent. See hashing below.
        *   Guarantee receipt by recipient. See hashing below.
        *   Verify that a message has not been altered after being sent by the sender.
            See hashing below.
10
    Hashing is a process whereby input data, typically of arbitrary length, is
    transformed into output data, typically of shorter length and / or of fixed length. A
    hash function is a function that performs the transformation. Often, useful hash
    functions will be one-way functions. That is, for a given input, the output can be
15  computed readily. However, for a given output, the input which produced the
    output will be difficult to calculate. Also, useful hash functions will often have the
    property that two differing inputs rarely produce the same output. Hashing can be
    used for the following purposes:
    *   To perform data redundancy checks. For example, a database may contain a
20      large number of names. The names may be of arbitrary length. To check for
        redundant names, hash values for the names may be created. The hash values
        may be of smaller size than the names and may all be of the same length.
        Thus, it may be easier to compare the hash values of the names than it will be
        to compare the names themselves.
25  e   To verify that a message has not been altered. For example, Alice can send a
        plaintext message to Bob along with a hash value of the message. Alice can
        apply a digital signature to the hash value so as to assure Bob that the hash
        value has been sent by Alice. When Bob receives the plaintext message from
        Alice, Bob can compute the hash value of the message. If the hash value that
30      Bob computes is the same as the hash value that Alice has sent to Bob, then
        Bob can be fairly confident that the message has not been altered en route from
        Alice to Bob.
                                               41

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
    *   To prove possession of a message without having to reveal the message. For
        example, Alice can send a message to Bob. Bob can take the hash of the
        message and send it back to Alice. Alice may thus be assured that Bob has the
        message without the risk of the message being intercepted en route from Bob to
 5      Alice.
    *   To prove possession of a message at a certain time without having to reveal the
        message. For example, Alice might have a great idea and wish to prove she
        came up with it at a certain time without having to reveal the idea. Thus, Alice
        might write out the idea in the form of text, and take a hash value of the text.
10      Alice can then publish the hash of the text in a newspaper. It will then be
        readily apparent that Alice had possession of the idea at least on the date of the
        newspaper's publication.
    *   To timestamp a document. For example, a document may be sent to a time
        stamping service. The service may then determine the hash value of the
15      document. The service may append the then current date and time to the hash
        value of the document and apply a digital signature to the result. The digitally
        signed hash value plus date and time may then be published. So long as the
        time-stamping service can be trusted to provide accurate dates and times (e.g.,
        not to use old dates and times) then the published timestamp may serve as
20      proof that the document was in existence as of the date and time provided by
        the time-stamping service. Further precautions may ensure that it becomes
        very difficult for even the time-stamping service to provide fake times and
        dates. For example, the time-stamping service may add a sequence number,
        (e.g., 1, 2, 3, etc.) to each document it timestamps. If the service wishes to
25      provide an old date, the service would have to find an older sequence number.
        The older sequence number would have to fit between two sequence numbers
        used immediately before and immediately after the desired fake date.
        However, no such sequence number would be available if, e.g., no numbers
        had been skipped in the first place.
30
                                                42

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    Figure 1 shows a system 100 according to some embodiments. In various
    embodiments, the system may function within the confines of a casino. In various
    embodiments, the system may function within the confines of a casino and
    associated areas, such as retail shops, exercise rooms, restaurants, swimming areas,
 5  showrooms, conference halls, and so on. In various embodiments, the system may
    function beyond the confines of a casino. A casino server 105 may be in
    communication with one or more mobile gaming devices, such as devices, 110,
    115, and 120. The casino server may be in communication with one or more
    marketer devices, such as marketer device 125. Marketer devices may transmit
10  information to the casino server, including information describing promotions to
    run (e.g., graphics and audio associated with promotions), when to run the
    promotions, what players should view promotions, what price will be paid for
    running promotions, what media to use for running promotions (e.g., symbols; e.g.,
    background areas of a displays screen) and so on. The casino server 105 may be in
15  communication with one or more display devices, such as display device 130.
    Display devices may include billboards, electronic signs, signs, television
    monitors, projectors, or other display devices. The casino server may instruct a
    display device to display graphics associated with a promotion, in various
    embodiments. The casino server may be in communication with one or more
20  receivers, such as receiver 135. Receivers may include antenna, RFID tag readers,
    bar code readers, and so on. Receivers may detect signals emitted from mobile
    gaming devices. Receivers may use such signals to determine the location of the
    mobile gaming devices. Receivers may also receive data from mobile gaming
    devices. Such data may be relayed to the casino server. The casino server 105
25  may be in communication with one or more beacons, such as beacon 140. Beacons
    may form part of a positioning system which may be used by mobile gaming
    devices to determine their positions. For example, beacons may emit signals
    within a casino. A mobile gaming device, by receiving signals from several
    beacons, may be able to triangulate its own position within the casino. The casino
30  server 105 may be in communication with one or more gaming devices, such as
    gaming device 145. Gaming devices may include slot machines, video poker
    machines, video blackjack machines, video keno machines, and so on. The casino
                                              43

 WO 2008/070787                                                            PCT/US2007/086661
    server may be in communication with one or more point of sale (POS) terminals,
    such as POS terminal 150. POS terminals may include any terminals associated
    with retail establishments, or any other terminals that can handle sales transactions.
    In various embodiments, a POS terminal may determine an appropriate promotion
 5  to be displayed on a nearby mobile gaming device. The POS terminal may
    transmit the promotion to the casino server. The casino server may, in turn,
    transmit the promotion to the mobile gaming device.
    Figure 2 shows a mobile gaming device 110 according to some embodiments. As
    used herein, the term "mobile gaming device" may refer to any device that is
10  readily movable or portable and which allows for players to gamble on one or
    more of at least the following: (a) a game of chance; (b) a sporting contest; (c) a
    game of mixed chance and skill (e.g., blackjack); (d) a game of skill; (e) a slot
    machine game (e.g., a game of video slots); (f) a lottery game; (g) a game of cards
    (e.g., a game of poker); (h) a pull-tab game; (i) a game of bingo; (j) a natural event
15  (e.g., the occurrence of a hurricane); (k) a political event (e.g., the winner of an
    election); (1) an event of popular culture (e.g., the date of a wedding between two
    celebrities); and so on. A mobile gaming device may be a device such as a
    Blackberry@, iPod@, personal digital assistant, mobile phone, laptop computer,
    camera, personal computer, television, electronic book (eBook), or any other
20  suitable device. A mobile gaming device may be movable or portable in the sense
    that the average human would be able to transport the device without significant
    exertion and without the aid of heavy machinery. A mobile gaming device may be
    movable or portable in the sense that it is not, by design, locked, bolted, or tied
    down to the same location for extended periods of time (e.g., months). It is,
25  however, contemplated that a mobile gaming device may be temporarily fixed into
    place (e.g., with locks or bolts) so that a human might physically interact with the
    device without risk that the device will be accidentally pushed, moved, toppled,
    etc. A mobile gaming device may include a processor 225 for executing various
    programs 240, including programs for operating games, programs for
30  communicating with other devices, programs for presenting advertisements,
    programs for presenting entertainment, and any other programs. A mobile gaming
    device may include memory 235 for storing program data, for storing image data,
                                                44

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
    for storing data about a player, for storing information about outcomes of games
    played on the mobile gaming device, for storing accounting data, and so on. A
    mobile gaming device may include various output devices 210. Such output
    devices may include a display screen, such as a liquid crystal display. The display
 5  screen may display images, videos, cartoons, animations, text, or any other feasible
    output. Output devices may include a speaker. The speaker may generate audio
    outputs. For example, the speaker may generate voice outputs, the sound of bells,
    the sound of engines, or any other sound. The speaker may generate vibrations.
    A mobile gaming device may include one or more input devices 215. The input
10  devices may allow a player to interact with the mobile gaming device. The mobile
    gaming device may include buttons, keypads, roller balls, scrolling wheels, and so
    on. The mobile gaming device may include a touch screen which, e.g., can sense
    contact from a human's touch and/or from a stylus. The mobile gaming device
    may include a microphone for receiving audio inputs. The microphone may be
15  used for receiving voice inputs. A mobile gaming device may include a card
    reader for receiving inputs from a magnetically striped card (e.g., from a credit
    card or player tracking card). A mobile gaming device may also include a smart
    card reader. A mobile gaming device may include a camera for capturing images
    or video. A mobile gaming device may include a biometric reader, such as a
20  thumb-print reader or retinal scanner. A mobile gaming device may include a
    communications port 220. The communications port may include an antenna 205
    for broadcasting and/or for receiving electromagnetic signals, such as wireless
    signals. The communications port may include an optical communication
    mechanism, such as a laser or diode. The communications port may include an
25  electric contact, which may interface to a wire, to a cable, or to the electronic
    contact of another device so as to create an electronic connection. The electronic
    connection may be used for purposes of communication and/or for the purposes of
    drawing power. A mobile gaming device may include a portion which is
    geometrically configured to fit into a docking area of another device. The other
30  device may include a portion with a complementary geometrical configuration.
    When the mobile gaming device is docked into the other device, the mobile
    gaming device may communicate with such device and/or draw power from the
                                               45

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    device. For example, the mobile gaming device may upload game software from
    the other device or download information about player gambling activities to the
    other device. A mobile gaming device may include a power source, such as a
    battery or fuel cell. The mobile gaming device may further include a sensor for
 5  determining when power is low. The sensor may trigger an indicator, which may
    indicate an amount of power remaining. The mobile gaming device may include a
    radio frequency identification (RFID) tag 230. The tag may include a unique
    signature, and may allow other devices to recognize the presence of the mobile
    gaming device. For example, a sensor embedded in a door frame may detect a
10  signal from an RFID tag embedded within a mobile gaming device and thereby
    recognize the presence of the mobile gaming device. In an example of its general
    operation, a mobile gaming device may receive an indication of a player identifier,
    such as from the swipe of a player tracking card through a magnetic card reader
    associated with the mobile gaming device. The mobile gaming device may
15  wirelessly transmit the player identifier to a casino server. The casino server may
    transmit a confirmation signal back to the mobile gaming device, confirming that
    the player has adequate credits on account to engage in gambling activities. The
    mobile gaming device may receive a game initiation signal from a player, e.g., via
    one the buttons on the mobile gaming device. The mobile gaming device may then
20  execute a game program to generate a random outcome, and present the random
    outcome to the player. For example, on its displays screen, the mobile gaming
    device may simulate the spinning of slot machine reels, which may be shown to
    stop with a particular outcome displayed centrally. The mobile gaming device may
    inform the casino server of the outcome of the game. The casino server may,
25  accordingly, add or subtract credits from the player's account. It will be
    appreciated that there are many other ways in which a mobile gaming device may
    operate. A mobile gaming device may include a more general purpose device
    which is configured to allow gaming activity, e.g., through downloads of gaming
    related software to the device. A mobile gaming device may also include a special
30  purpose device dedicated to gaming. A mobile gaming device may include a
    device as set forth in Nevada bill AB47 1.
                                               46

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
    Figure 3 shows a gaming device 145 according to some embodiments.         As used
    herein, the term "gaming device" may refer to any machine, article, or device
    which allows a player to participate in a game, contest, or other endeavor, and
    which allows a player to put money or other consideration at risk. A gaming
 5  device may include a Class II gaming device, a Class III gaming device, a video
    bingo machine, an instant bingo machine, a video poker machine (e.g., Action
    Gaming's Triple PlayTM Draw Poker), a video slot machine (e.g., WMS's Jackpot
    Party Classic machines), a mechanical slot machine (e.g., IGT's Cleopatra@ Slots),
    an electromechanical slot machine, a video blackjack machine, a video keno
10  machine, and a multi-game machine. Gaming devices may include devices with
    non-gaming related uses which can also be used or adapted for gaming. For
    example, a personal computer may constitute a gaming device since the computer
    may run software for conducting a game and may receive, e.g., a credit card
    number from a player for the purposes of collecting from and paying money to a
15  player. A gaming device may include a mobile gaming device (e.g., a mobile
    device as defined by Nevada bill AB 471) or any mobile device that can be used
    for gaming. A gaming device may include a personal digital assistant, a cell
    phone, a laptop computer, a Blackberry®, and so on.
    Figure 4 shows a casino server 105 according to some embodiments. Antenna 405
20  may allow the casino server to communicate wirelessly with various devices, such
    as mobile gaming devices. Output device 410 may include displays, such as
    liquid crystal display monitors, speakers, or any other device that may
    communicate information. The output device may present information in a way
    suitable for human perception. For example, the output device may present text for
25  a human to read. Input device 415 may include buttons, keypads, mice, roller
    balls, microphones, styli, touch screens, and so on. The input device may allow
    humans to communicate information to the casino server. Communications port
    420 may include an antenna, serial port, parallel port, FireWire, Ethernet,
    Universal Serial Bus (USB), or any other interface for communications. Storage
30  device 430 may include a hard disk, flash memory, random access memory
    (RAM), read only memory (ROM), a compact disc, a digital versatile disc, an
    optical disc, a magnetic storage device, a semiconductor memory, a magneto
                                              47

  WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
     optical storage device, and so on. Storage device 430 may store program data 435
     as well as various databases, including a promotion database 440, marketer
     database 445, player database 450, and point of sale (POS) terminal database 455.
     The program data may include instructions which may direct the processor 425 to
 5   operate in accordance with various embodiments.
     Promotion database 440 may store data associated with promotions. Such data
     may include: (a) image data (e.g., images of products being promoted); (b) video
     data (e.g., video advertisements); (c) audio data (e.g., jingles associated with
     product promotions); (d) text data (e.g., text for display in a promotion); (e) data
10   descriptive of a promotion (e.g., a promotion may have a tag indicating what
     product is being promoted); (f) data descriptive of the size of a promotion (e.g.,
     data describing the number of pixels in each dimension of an image; (g) data
     describing the running time of a promotion (e.g., 30 seconds); (h) data describing
     the place or medium where a promotion should be featured (e.g., a promotion
15   should appear as a symbol in a simulated slot machine game); (i) data describing
     the number of times a promotion should be run (e.g., the promotion should be run
     100 time); (j) data describing the audience to which a promotion should be
     presented (e.g., a promotion should be presented to women between the ages of 40
     and 60); (k) data describing the times during which a promotion should be
20   presented (e.g., a promotion should be presented between 11:00am and 1:00pm);
     (1) data describing the priority of a promotion (e.g., promotion with higher
     priorities may be presented before or in place of promotions with lower priorities);
     (m) data describing the sponsor or marketer behind a promotion (e.g., Procter &
     Gamble is the sponsor of a promotion); (n) data describing a price to be paid by a
25   sponsor or marketer for a promotion's presentation (e.g., a marketer will pay two
     cents per viewer per presentation; e.g., a marketer will pay $100 to have a product
     featured in a game for an entire day); (o) data describing the number of times a
     promotion has already been presented; (p) data describing a number of times
     remaining that a promotion must be presented; (q) data describing the number of
30   people who have viewed a promotion; (r) data describing the demographics of
     people who have viewed a promotion; and any other data pertinent to a promotion.
                                                48

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
    Marketer database 445 may store data associated with sponsors or marketers.
    Marketer database may store data including: (a) marketer names; (b) marketer
    advertising budgets; (c) promotions associated with marketers; (d) amounts owed
    the casino by the marketers; (e) preferred audiences of the marketer; (f) billing
 5  information for the marketer (e.g., a credit card identifier associated with the
    marketer; e.g., an address for the marketer); (g) a medium which is of primary
    interest to a marketer (e.g., symbols; e.g., bonus rounds); and so on.
    Player database 450 may store data associated with players. Player database 450
    may store data including: (a) a player's name; (b) a player's tracking card number;
10  (c) a player's age; (d) a player's demographic; (e) a player's preferred product
    category; (f) a player's preferred category of promotion; (g) a player's length of
    stay at a casino; (h) a player's historical purchasing behavior (e.g., the player has
    made 3 purchases in response to promotions in the past); (i) a player's game results
    or outcomes (e.g., the player has won $120 today; e.g., the player has lost on his
15  last 5 outcomes); (j) a player's friends, relatives, associates, or other group
    members; and so on.
    Point of sale (POS) terminal database 455 may include data describing various
    POS terminals. In various embodiments, such terminals may be associated with
    the casino. For example, such POS terminals may manage transactions for various
20  retail establishments within a casino. In various embodiments, such terminals may
    include terminals outside of the casino. POS terminal database 455 may include:
    (a) data describing the location of POS terminals; (b) data describing the retail
    establishments served by POS terminals; (c) data describing presentation
    capabilities of POS terminals (e.g., a POS terminal may include a display screen
25  and/or speaker which may be used to present images and/or sounds associated with
    a promotion); and so on.
    Figure 5 shows a POS terminal 150 according to some embodiments. The
    inventory database 545 may include data describing products within the store. The
    inventory database may include data describing: (a) the number of a product
30  remaining; (b) the expected shelf life of a product; (c) the expected remaining shelf
                                                49

 WO 2008/070787                                                              PCT/US2007/086661
    life of a product; (d) the expected time of arrival of new inventory; (e) the
    characteristics of a product (e.g., the product color; e.g., the product size); and so
    on. The pricing database 550 may include data related to products' prices,
    including: (a) a product's price; (b) a discount available on the product (e.g., there
 5  is a 25% discount in effect for the next two days); (c) a wholesale price for the
    product; (d) a cost of acquiring the product (e.g., the cost to the retailer of
    purchasing the product from a wholesaler or manufacturer); (e) a liquidation price
    for a product; and so on.
    Figure 6 shows a mobile gaming device 600 according to some embodiments. The
10  mobile gaming device 600 features a slot machine game. The slot machine game
    includes three reels. Among the symbols depicted on the reels are three symbols
    representing promotions. These symbols, 605, 610, and 615, depict a corporate
    logo for Coca-Cola. By lining up three such symbols, a player may win a prize.
    The prize may be related to the product or corporation depicted by the symbols.
15  For example, the prize may be a year's supply of Coca-Cola drinks.
    1. Types ofpromotion. In various embodiments, promotions may be presented
         using mobile gaming devices. A promotion may include: (a) an advertisement
         (e.g., for a product or service); (b) an announcement (e.g., an announcement as
         to when a new show is starting at a casino; e.g., an announcement that a certain
20       car was rated number one in the country); (c) a warning (e.g., a warning about
         the approach of inclement weather); (d) a statement of information (e.g.,
         candidate Jones has just won the election); (e) an offer of a benefit (e.g., an
         offer of a discount; e.g., an offer of a coupon; e.g., an offer of a gift certificate);
         (f) an offer of a benefit in exchange for some action on the part of the recipient
25       of the offer (e.g., an offer of a gift certificate in exchange for the recipient of
         the offer answering survey questions); (g) a request (e.g., a request to answer
         survey questions); (h) a benefit given unconditionally (e.g., cash given
         unconditionally; e.g., a gift certificate given unconditionally); (i) an entry into a
         sweepstakes or other chance event (e.g., an entry into a drawing for a particular
30       merchant's car); and so on. Promotions may be presented in various forms and
         in various situations. Promotions may be presented in audio form, video form,
                                                  50

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
        or text form, for example. Promotions may be presented at various points in
        time relative to other events. For example, promotions may be presented in
        between games played on a mobile device.
        1.1. Audio. Promotions may be presented in audio form. A promotion may
 5           include a spoken voice. For example, an announcer or narrator may
             describe the features of a product that is being advertised. A promotion
             may include a song. A promotion may include a musical tune. A
             promotion may include a sound track, such as the revving of a motorcycle
             engine. A promotion may include a jingle, such as a jingle commonly
10           associated with a product.
        1.2. Text. A promotion may include text. Text may include information,
             slogans, or subtitles, for example.
        1.3. Still image. A promotion may include still images. The image may take
             up all or part of a display screen, such as the display screen on the mobile
15           gaming device. The image may represent an actual photograph, an image
             created by an artist, or an image created by a computer, for example.
        1.4. Video. A promotion may include video. The video may be comprised of a
             sequence of still images, for example. The video may occupy an entire
             display screen or part of a display screen, for example. A video may be
20           the product of a camera, or may be an animation, for example.
        1.5. Vibration. A promotion may include vibration, or any induced motion of
             the mobile gaming device. For example, the mobile gaming device may
             vibrate in conjunction with a promotion for a car race, where the vibrations
             may help the player of the mobile gaming device to imagine the cars
25           rumbling by.
        1.6. Flashing lights. A promotion may include flashing or blinking lights. For
             example, light emitting diodes (LEDs) on the mobile gaming device may
             flash in order to convey excitement associated with a promotion.
        1.7. Smells. A promotion may include smells. For example, a mobile gaming
30           device may release small quantities of chemicals to create aromas in
             conjunction with a food advertisement.
                                                51

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
        1.8. Triggernearby signs or slot machines to display advertisements. In some
             embodiments, a promotion may include a signal to other displays or
             devices, the signal instructing such displays or devices to participate in the
             promotion. For example, as part of a promotion, a mobile gaming device
 5           may send a signal to a nearby slot machine (e.g., to a slot machine located
             within hearing range; e.g., to a slot machine located within a line of sight
             of the mobile gaming device) instructing the slot machine to perform one
             or more actions related to the promotion. In some embodiments, a mobile
             gaming device may instruct a slot machine to generate an audio output.
10           For example, the mobile gaming device may instruct that the slot machine
             blast the sounds of bells ringing through a speaker that is part of the slot
             machine. In some embodiments, a mobile gaming device may instruct a
             slot machine to generate a video output. For example, the mobile gaming
             device may instruct a slot machine to show a particular video or animated
15           clip. In some embodiments, a mobile gaming device may instruct a slot
             machine to show an image. For example, a mobile gaming device may
             instruct a slot machine to show an image of a product being promoted by
             the mobile gaming device.
            1.8.1. Distances. In various embodiments, a slot machine, another gaming
20                device, a display screen, or any other device may participate in
                  presenting a promotion so as to enhance the effect of a promotion.
                  For example, a promotion may be more effective if five slot machines
                  surrounding a player all show the same sounds and images than if
                  only the display screen on the mobile gaming device is involved. A
25                promotion may be particularly effective, in some embodiments, if
                  participating slot machines or other devices can influence the player
                  of the mobile gaming device. Thus, particularly effective devices may
                  include devices that are visible or audible to the player. In various
                  embodiments, a device is instructed to participate in a promotion if the
30                device is within a certain range of a mobile gaming device. For
                  example, a mobile gaming device may instruct a slot machine to
                  participate in a promotion if the slot machine is within ten feet of the
                                               52

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
                mobile gaming device. In various embodiments, a mobile gaming
                device may instruct a device to participate in a promotion if: (a) the
                device is within a predetermined distance of the mobile gaming
                device; (b) if the device is within a direct line of sight of the mobile
 5              gaming device (e.g., if there are no other devices or fixtures between
                the mobile gaming device and the device); (c) the device is in the
                same room as the mobile gaming device; (d) the device is on the same
                floor of a building as is the mobile gaming device; (e) the device is
                facing at least somewhat towards the mobile gaming device (e.g., the
10              mobile gaming device may only request that a slot machine participate
                in a promotion if the screen of the slot machine is facing in the
                direction of the mobile gaming device); (f) the mobile gaming device
                can detect a signal from the device (e.g., a gaming device may emit a
                short range signal that is detectable by the mobile gaming device only
15              if the mobile gaming device is within proximity to the gaming device;
                (g) the device can detect a signal from the mobile gaming device; (h)
                the mobile gaming device receives a signal from the device at a
                certain minimum threshold power (e.g., if the signal power is strong in
                the detected signal, the device may be assumed to be near to the
20              mobile gaming device); (i) the device receives a signal from the
                mobile gaming device at a certain minimum threshold power level; (j)
                if the device has video display capability; (k) if the device has audio
                output capability; (1)if the device has speakers of a certain minimum
                output capability; and so on. In various embodiments, a mobile
25              gaming device may determine whether or not another device is
                available for participation in a promotion. Another device may be
                available if such device: (a) is currently not participating in a different
                promotion (e.g., if the device is not displaying graphics as part of a
                promotion to a different player); (b) is currently not being used for
30              gaming purposes (e.g., a slot machine may be available if it is not
                currently being played by another player); (c) is currently not being
                used for other purposes (e.g., a plasma display monitor may be
                                              53

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
                available if it is not currently not broadcasting programming to
                passing people); (d) is functioning (e.g., if the device is not
                experiencing mechanical or electrical problems); (e) is not scheduled
                or intended for immediate use; (f) is not restricted from participating
 5              in promotions of the type in which the device would be asked to
                participate in (e.g., a device made by a first manufacturer may be
                restricted from promoting products from a competing manufacturer);
                and so on. In various embodiments, a device that may be instructed to
                participate in a promotion may include a slot machine, video poker
10              machine, another gaming device, a display monitor (e.g., a plasma
                display screen; e.g., a cathode ray tube (CRT) monitor), a billboard, a
                projection display, a speaker, a public address system output, a light
                bulb, a light fixture, and so on.
15              In various embodiments, a device may be proximate to several players
                with mobile gaming devices. For example, a slot machine may be
                within 10 feet of each of three players of mobile gaming devices.
                Such players may coincidentally happen to be in the same area, for
                example. The three mobile gaming devices (those belonging to each
20              of the three players) may cooperate to schedule the same promotion at
                the same time so that the device which is proximate to all three
                players may show a promotion which influences all the three players
                at once. For example, each of the three mobile gaming devices may
                schedule an advertisement for cruise vacations to occur at the same
25              time. As the mobile gaming devices broadcast audio to the three
                players, the slot machine which is near to all three players may show a
                video of a cruise ship sailing through blue waters and stopping at
                tropical islands.
30              In various embodiments, a plurality of mobile gaming devices may
                coordinate to schedule the same or similar promotions at the same
                time. A device which can influence the players of the mobile gaming
                                               54

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
                devices may be commanded or requested to participate in the
                promotion. The device may be a slot machine, TV monitor, billboard,
                or any other device. The device may, accordingly, broadcast sounds,
                images, or other information in support of the promotion. The device
 5              may be selected or chosen because it is within a certain distance of all
                of the mobile gaming device players, because it is within line-of-site
                of all of the mobile gaming device players, because it is within
                hearing range of all the mobile gaming device players, and/or for any
                other reason. In various embodiments, a device (e.g., a slot machine)
10              may be selected to participate in a promotion that is being presented to
                a plurality of players even though the device may be unable to
                influence one of the plurality of players. For example, a slot machine
                may be chosen to participate in a promotion being presented to several
                players even if one of the players cannot see the screen of the slot
15              machine.
                In various embodiments, a device may have the potential to participate
                in two or more promotions at a given time. For example, a first player
                of a mobile gaming device and a second player of a mobile gaming
20              device may each be in proximity to the device. Various criteria may
                be use to determine whether the device will participate in a promotion
                presented to the first player or the second player. The device may
                participate in the promotion presented to the first player if: (a) the first
                player is in closer proximity to the device than is the second player;
25              (b) the first player has a better view of the device than does the second
                player (e.g., a display screen of the device is facing towards the first
                player but away from the second player); (c) the first player is deemed
                more likely to be influenced by the promotion than is the second
                player; (d) the first player is a better customer of the casino than is the
30              second player (e.g., the first player has bet more money at the casino
                in the past than has the second player); (e) the second player is a better
                customer of the casino than is the first player; (f) the first player is
                                               55

 WO 2008/070787                                                             PCT/US2007/086661
                  deemed more likely to pay attention to the device participating in the
                  promotion; (g) the first player has shown more interest in the product
                  scheduled to be promoted to the first player than has the second player
                  shown in the product scheduled to be promoted to the second player;
 5                (h) the second player is in proximity to another device which might
                  participate in the promotion scheduled to be presented to the second
                  player; and/or if other criteria are satisfied. It will be appreciated that
                  similar criteria may be used to choose which promotion a device (e.g.,
                  a slot machine) will participate in given that three or more players of
10                mobile devices are in the vicinity. In some embodiments, a device
                  (e.g., a slot machine) may participate in a promotion if such
                  promotion will be presented to the majority (or the plurality) of the
                  players of mobile gaming devices which are in the vicinity of the
                  device.
15          1.8.2. Sending the signals. The determination of whether or not it would
                  be appropriate for a device (e.g., a slot machine) to participate in a
                  promotion of a mobile gaming device may be determined in various
                  ways. In some embodiments, the mobile gaming device may detect
                  the presence of the device (e.g., the slot machine). The mobile
20                gaming device may detect the presence of the device by detecting a
                  signal emitted from the device. The signal may be caused by radio
                  frequency identification (RFID) tag associated with the device. The
                  signal may be an infrared signal or any other signal. In some
                  embodiments, the device (e.g., the slot machine) may detect the
25                presence of the mobile gaming device. The device may detect a signal
                  from the mobile gaming device, such as a signature of an RFID tag
                  associated with the mobile gaming device, such as an infrared signal
                  from the mobile gaming device, or any other signal. In various
                  embodiments, the device (e.g., the slot machine) may detect the
30                presence of the mobile gaming device using optical means. For
                  example, the device may include a camera and may employ image
                  processing algorithms to recognize when a player in the vicinity of the
                                                56

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
                gaming device is carrying a mobile gaming device. In various
                embodiments, the mobile gaming device may contain a positioning
                system, such as a global positioning system (GPS). The mobile
                gaming device may determine based on its position whether it is
 5              currently proximate to a device (e.g., a slot machine). For example,
                the mobile gaming device may access an internally stored map
                describing the positions of one or more devices. In various
                embodiments, the mobile gaming device and / or the device (e.g., the
                slot machine) may relay any received signals to a central server. For
10              example, the device (e.g., the slot machine) may relay signals from the
                mobile gaming device to the central server. The central server may
                recognize that the signals were generated by the mobile gaming
                device. Therefore, the central server may recognize that the mobile
                gaming device is likely in proximity to the device (e.g., the slot
15              machine). Similarly, the mobile gaming device may relay signals
                from the device (e.g., the slot machine) to the central server. The
                central server may recognize such signals as originating from the
                device (e.g., the slot machine) and may thereby recognize that the
                mobile device is in proximity to the device (e.g., the slot machine). In
20              various embodiments, one or more sensors may detect the presence of
                the mobile gaming device via signals emitted or transmitted from the
                mobile gaming device. The sensors may not be associated with a
                device (e.g., with a slot machine). The sensors may be in
                communication with the central server. Thus, using signals detected
25              from sensors, and possibly using triangulation or other location
                algorithms, the central server may detect the presence of the mobile
                gaming device.
                In various embodiments, once the central server recognizes that a
30              mobile gaming device is in proximity to a device (e.g., a slot
                machine), the central server may arrange for the device to participate
                in a promotion to be presented by the mobile gaming device. For
                                             57

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
                example, the central server may instruct both the mobile gaming
                device and the device (e.g., the slot machine) to present a promotion at
                the same time. For example, the mobile gaming device may present
                an audio and a video portion of a promotion while the nearby device
 5              (e.g., the slot machine) may present a video sequence as part of the
                promotion. In various embodiments, when the central server
                recognizes that a mobile gaming device and a device (e.g., a slot
                machine) are in proximity, the central server may determine whether it
                is appropriate that the device (e.g., the slot machine) participate in a
10              promotion to be presented by the mobile gaming device. For
                example, the central server may determine whether sound to be
                broadcast by the device would be audible to the player of the mobile
                gaming device given the ambient noise levels in the casino. As
                another example, the central server may determine whether or not the
15              device is currently occupied and therefore whether the device should
                be used at all in presenting the promotion.
                In various embodiments, a device (e.g., a slot machine) may be the
                sole presenter of a promotion. The mobile gaming device may not be
20              involved in presenting a promotion to a player. However, the mobile
                gaming device may signal the device (e.g., the slot machine) to make
                the presentation. For example, a player with a mobile gaming device
                may walk by a slot machine. The mobile gaming device may transmit
                a signal to the slot machine to present a promotion. Accordingly, the
25              slot machine may present video, audio, or other information
                associated with the promotion. In the mean time, the mobile gaming
                device may continue to allow the player to play a game without the
                mobile gaming device becoming involved in the promotion. In
                various embodiments, two or more devices may be involved in
30              presenting a promotion to a player. The mobile device may not be
                involved in the presentation. However, the mobile device may signal
                to the devices to present material in accordance with the promotion.
                                              58

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
        1.9. Message about where to go to get something. For example, the mobile
             device knows where you are and can tell you ifyou're near the jewelry
             store and what you can get there. In various embodiments, a promotion
             may include a message indicating where a product or service may be
 5           bought, used, or experienced. For example, a mobile gaming device may
             present a text message to a player indicating that there is a jewelry store to
             the right of the player. For example, a mobile gaming device may present
             an audio message to a player indicating that there is a show playing around
             the corner. In various embodiments, when a player with a mobile gaming
10           device walks near a retail store or other locality of interest, a promotion
             may be triggered. The promotion may relate to that locality.
    2. Mediums. Places where promotions may be placed. Images or videos
        associated with promotions may be presented in various places. Images and
        videos associated with promotions may be presented on a display screen of a
15      mobile gaming device. Images and videos may be presented on the display
        screen in different places, and under different circumstances. For example, an
        image may be presented in the foreground or background, during a game or
        between games. Other outputs associated with promotions may also be
        presented in various ways.
20      2.1. Symbols.      In various embodiments, images or video associated with a
             promotion may be put on a symbol. In various embodiments, images or
             video associated with a promotion may make up the whole of a symbol.
             For example, an image of a soda drink may make up a symbol. Symbols
             with such images or videos may function in a game just as any other
25           symbol. For example, in a slot machine game, the alignment of three like
             symbols may allow a player to win a prize. Images or video associated
             with a promotion may be put on cards; game tokens (e.g., a game token
             that moves around a board in a game of Monopoly® may take the form of
             an image of a luxury car brand); game characters (e.g., a bidder in an
30           auction game may take the form of an animated CloroxTM box); tokens of
             value (e.g., when a player of a game opens a treasure chest, three sparkling
             Rolex@ watches may be revealed); and so on.
                                               59

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
        2.2. The background, e.g., backgroundgraphics. Images or video associated
             with a promotion may appear as background graphics on the display
             screen of a mobile gaming device. For example, the parts of the screen
             that are not occupied by graphics related to a game may be occupied by
 5           images or video related to a promotion.
        2.3. Signs. Images or video associated with a promotion may appear on signs
             or other landmarks in a virtual world associated with a game. For
             example, a game played on a mobile gaming device may feature a virtual
             world with racing cars. The cars may pass billboards in the virtual world.
10           The billboards may include images promoting products or services.
        2.4. Chipfaces, such as the faces on gaming chips. In various embodiments,
             images or video associated with a promotion may appear on gaming chips.
             Such gaming chips may be actual, physical gaming chips, such as those
             used in table games at casinos. Such gaming chips may also include chips
15           used in a game played on a computing device, such as on a mobile gaming
             device. For example, a player may engage in a game of poker using his
             mobile gaming device. Gaming chips which are graphically depicted in
             the game may include images associated with a promotion, such as images
             of products or services.
20      2.5. Cards. In various embodiments, images or video associated with a
             promotion may appear on cards. Such gaming cards may be actual,
             physical cards, such as those used in table games of poker or blackjack.
             Such cards may also include cards used in a game played on a computing
             device, such as on a mobile gaming device. For example, a player may
25           engage in a game of poker using his mobile gaming device. Cards which
             are graphically depicted in the game may include images associated with a
             promotion, such as images of products or services.
        2.6. Audio. In various embodiments, the audio outputs of a mobile gaming
             device may be used as part of a promotion. The audio outputs may
30           broadcast songs, jingles, voice, tunes, narrative, sounds of products (e.g.,
             the sounds of a horse stamping in an advertisement for horse-back riding).
                                               60

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
        2.7. Promotions appearin a bonus round. The whole theme of the bonus round
             could be based on the promotions. In various embodiments images or
             video associated with a promotion may appear in the bonus round of a
             game. The bonus round may include any game sequence that is not part of
 5           the normal flow of the game, and in which a player has the opportunity to
             win unusual amounts of credits. For example, in a Wheel of Fortune@
             game, a bonus round may include a spin of a simulated wheel in which a
             player is given the opportunity to win large prizes posted on the wheel.
             Promotional images may be displayed in the background of a bonus round
10           scene. Promotional images may also function as characters or game
             tokens in a bonus round. For example, a cereal box may be the main
             character in bonus round, with the cereal box moving around a game board
             and landing on squares which win money for the player. In various
             embodiments the theme of a bonus round may center around a particular
15           promotion. For example, a bonus round set in a chocolate factory may be
             designed to promote the Mars company. In various embodiments, audio
             associated with a promotion may be broadcast during a bonus round. For
             example, the hissing sound of a soft drink bottle opening may be broadcast
             whenever the player has won more money in the bonus round.
20      2.8. Pop-up ads. In various embodiments, pop-up boxes or windows may be
             used to display videos or images associated with promotions. Pop-up
             boxes or windows may include separate windows that appear on a display
             (e.g., on the display screen of the mobile gaming device) without
             prompting from a player. Images or video associated with the promotion
25           may be displayed within the pop-up boxes or windows.
        2.9. Housing. In various embodiments, promotions may be placed on a casing,
             housing, or other hardware components of a mobile gaming device. For
             example, the housing of a mobile gaming device may be decorated in the
             coloring of a Coca-Cola can. In various embodiments, promotions may be
30           put on accessories of a mobile gaming device, such as on a leather case of
             an iPod, such as on the holster of a BlackberryTM, such as on a dock of an
             iPod, or on any other accessory.
                                               61

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
        2.10.        Constraints. Symbols have inherent constraints. Forexample, they
             consist of graphics. Symbols might be only certainpixel dimensions, such
             as 20 x 20 pixels. In various embodiments, a particular medium or slot for
             the display of images or video may have inherent constraints.
 5           Accordingly, a marketer who wishes to use such a medium or slot for the
             presentation of a promotion may have to devise images or video which
             satisfy the constraints presented by the medium. For example, an image
             associated with a promotion may take the place of (or may serve as) a
             symbol in a reeled slot game. As the symbol may occupy only a small
10           portion of the area of the display screen, the image or video associated
             with the promotion may likewise be constrained to occupy only that small
             area of the display screen. The symbol may have a stated constraint in
             terms of size. For example, the symbol may occupy an area of 0.36 square
             inches, or an area of 20 by 20 pixels. Any image or video that is to serve
15           as a symbol must thus be confined to the stated area limits. In various
             embodiments an image or video associated with a promotion is constrained
             to occupy a certain area. The area may be measured in terms of square
             inches, dimensions, square millimeters, or in terms of any other units. In
             various embodiments, the central server or other party selling promotional
20           opportunities to marketers may publish or otherwise inform potential
             marketers of the constraints placed on various types of promotions. For
             example, the central server may list available places to display images or
             video and may list corresponding size constraints. For example, the
             following may be a partial list of mediums and constraints: (a) symbol, 20
25           x 20 pixels; (b) billboard in bonus round, 30 x 50 pixels; (c) background
             left side of screen, 70 x 20 pixels; (d) background top of screen, 20 x 80
             pixels; and so on. In various embodiments, the cost to a marketer of
             displaying an image or video may be based, at least in part, on the display
             area of the image or video. For example, the cost to the advertiser may be
30           proportional to the display area of the image or video. In various
             embodiments, the cost to the marketer for a promotion may depend on
             other factors as well, such as the duration for which a promotion is
                                               62

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             presented, the point in a game at which a promotion is presented, the
             number of times a promotion is presented (e.g., the cost per presentation
             may go down if there are multiple presentations), and so on.
 5           In various embodiments, there may be time constraints placed on a
             promotion. For example, a promotion must last no more than 3 seconds.
             Thus, any video associated with the promotion may be constrained to
             lasting no more than 3 seconds. Also, any audio associated with the
             promotion may be constrained to lasting no more than 3 seconds. In
10           various embodiments, the cost to a marketer for having a promotion
             presented may depend, at least in part, on the duration of the promotion.
             In various embodiments, an image may be constrained to be at least a
             certain size, or to occupy at least a certain area. For example, an image
1s           may be constrained to be at least 20 by 20 pixels. In this way, the casino
             server can ensure that empty space is kept to a minimum on a display
             screen. Similarly a video may be constrained to take up at least a certain
             amount of area. In various embodiments, an image or video may be
             constrained to be exactly a particular size. In various embodiments, an
20           audio clip associated with a promotion may be constrained to be exactly a
             particular duration. In this way, the casino server may ensure that there is
             no undesired quiet time.
    3. Player indicates his preferences in advertising.In various embodiments, a
25      player may influence the promotions that are presented to him. When the
        player has an input into which promotions are presented to him, the player may
        be more likely to respond positively to the promotions.
        3.1. In a game with advertising on various game elements, the player selects
             the category, genre, brandor other rubricfrom which ads are selected.
30           This information on player adpreferences may itselfbe valuable since the
             player has just answereda survey question. For example, when the game
             is about to start, the opening screen can display three options (e.g., three
                                                63

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
             large boxes with descriptive text and graphics)to be picked using the
             touch screen. In various embodiments, a player may indicate a type,
             category, or other limitation on a promotion. Promotions may then be
             presented to the player based on the indicated type or category. Such a
 5           type or category may represent a preference of the player. For example,
             the player may prefer to see vacation related commercials, car related
             commercials, or food related commercials. In indicating a category of
             promotion, player may indicate: (a) a type of product; (b) a type of service;
             (c) a price range for a product or service; (d) a brand; (e) a manufacturer;
10           (f) a format of the promotion (e.g., the promotion is a movie trailer; e.g.,
             the promotion should last only five seconds; e.g., the promotion may be an
             infomercial; e.g., the promotion should be video; e.g., the promotion
             should be audio); (g) a particular product (e.g., the player may wish to see
             a promotion about a Mercedes of a particular model and year); (h) a
15           particular cause (e.g., the player may wish to see promotions for products
             or charities that benefit a particular cause, such as the environment); (i) a
             particular attribute of a product (e.g., the player may indicate that he/she
             wishes to see only red clothes); (j)a retailer (e.g., the player may indicate
             the he/she wishes to see products from Macy's); (k) whether a promotion
20           will promote a particular product or service or just be informational; and
             so on.
             In various embodiments, a player may indicate a category of promotion in
             various ways. When first receiving a mobile gaming device, a player may
25           indicate a category of promotion. The player may indicate a category by
             informing a casino representative. The casino representative may then
             program a setting onto the mobile gaming device such that the mobile
             gaming device only presents promotions of the category indicated by the
             player. The player may also make an indication using the mobile gaming
30           device. For example, the player may select a category of promotion from
             a menu, from a series of check boxes, or from a text box. Using a text
             box, a player may key in a category of promotion, or any description of a
                                                64

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             promotion the player so desires. For example, the player may key in,
             "show me things to do in Kansas during August". In various
             embodiments, the player may go through two or more rounds of specifying
             a promotion. For example, the player may first specify a broad category
 5           such as automobiles. The player may then specify a narrower category,
             such as "cars" or "trucks".
             In various embodiments, a player may indicate category of promotion via
             the Internet. For example, prior to a casino visit, a player may visit the
10           Internet. The player may navigate a series of menus, checkboxes, text
             boxes, or other input mediums in order to specify a category of promotion.
             The indicated category of promotions may be stored by the casino server.
             The casino server may then ensure that, while playing, the player is only
             presented with promotions falling under the given category. In various
15           embodiments, the mobile gaming device may filter out promotions so that
             only those of a category indicated by a player are presented to the player.
             In various embodiments, promotions of a category related to that selected
             by the player may be presented to the player.
20           In various embodiments, a player may indicate a new category of
             promotions some time during the course of a playing session. For
             example, a player may indicate that she is no longer interested in see
             promotions related to jewelry, and instead would like to see promotions
             related to purses. A mobile gaming device may include a menu or icon
25           that is accessible during a playing session. The player may access such a
             menu or icon to indicate a change to the category of promotion.
             In various embodiments, a player may first see one or more promotions.
             The player may then indicate whether he would like to see additional,
30           similar promotions, or whether he would like to see promotions of a
             different type. Based on his response, new promotions may be presented
             to the player. The player may once again be asked whether he would like
                                               65

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
             to see similar promotions or promotions of a different type. In this way,
             the casino server may iteratively arrive at a category of promotion that is
             of interest to the player.
 5           In various embodiments, a player may indicate a category of promotion.
             The promotions presented to the player may or may not then all conform
             to the indicated category. For example, the casino server may not
             necessarily have an inventory of promotions to present to the player of the
             category indicated by the player. In various embodiments, the casino
10           server may determine promotions that are deemed to most closely fall
             within the category indicated by a player, even if such promotions do not
             directly fall within the category indicated by the player. For example, the
             player may indicate a desire to see promotions related to vacationing in the
             Bahamas. The casino may not have any promotions directly on topic.
15           However, the casino may have promotions related to vacationing in the
             Virgin Islands. Thus, the casino may present such promotions to the
             player. The casino may employ algorithms for associating related
             concepts. The algorithms may learn from the preferences indicated by
             players. For example, if a given player indicates that he wishes to be
20           presented with promotions related to concept A and concept B, then the
             algorithms may associate concept A with concept B. In the future, if
             another player indicates he wished to be presented with promotions related
             to concept A, the casino server may present to the player promotions
             related to concept B. As will be appreciated, many algorithms could be
25           used for deriving associations between concepts. Any such algorithm
             might be used for choosing promotions to present to a player, in various
             embodiments.
             In various embodiments, a player may indicate a category of promotion.
30           By indicating such a category, the player may reveal himself to be a
             potential customer of a merchant who would create a promotion falling
             within the indicated category. For example, a player may indicate that he
                                               66

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
             wishes to view promotions for luxury cars. By providing such an
             indication, the player may reveal himself to be a potential buyer of luxury
             cars. The knowledge that the player is a potential buyer of luxury cars
             may be of value to a dealer or manufacturer of luxury cars. Thus, in
 5           various embodiments, if a merchant deals in a category of goods or
             services and a player has indicated a preference to view promotions related
             to that category, then the casino may provide the merchant with the
             player's contact information. The merchant may then be able to send
             further promotions to the player. For example, the merchant may be able
10           to send promotions to the home of the player. In some embodiments, a
             merchant may pay the casino to provide the contact information of a player
             who has indicated interest in seeing promotions in a category in which the
             merchant's products fall.
15           In some embodiments, a merchant not be given direct contact information
             for a player who has shown interest in promotions falling within the
             merchant's area of business. Rather, the casino may forward promotions
             from the merchant to the player, even after the player has left the confines
             of the casino. For example, the merchant may send a promotional email to
20           the casino, and the casino may forward the promotional email to the
             player. In this way, the player's contact information may be kept from the
             merchant, and the player's privacy may be maintained.
             In various embodiments, a player may indicate a particular category of
25           promotion. The casino may then find marketers who might be expected to
             run promotions falling under that category. For example, a player may
             indicate he wishes to see promotions related to car insurance. The casino
             may then find various car insurance companies. The casino may invite the
             marketers to promote to the player. In various embodiments, the casino
30           may provide a general description of the player to a marketer. For
             example, the casino may provide the marketer with an age, income level,
             and / or other demographic characteristic of the player. The information
                                               67

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
             about the player that is provided to the marketer may aid the marketer in
             deciding whether or not to promote to the player. Based on information
             about the player, marketers may determine whether or not they wish to
             promote to the player. For example, a marketer may decide based on the
 5           age of a player whether or not the player would be likely to purchase the
             marketer's product. The marketer may make a decision as to whether or
             not to promote to a player simply based on the fact that the player has
             shown interest in a particular category of promotion. In various
             embodiments, the casino may quote a price to the marketer to promote to a
10           particular player. The marketer may accept or reject the offer to promote.
             In various embodiments, the casino may quote a range of prices, each price
             corresponding to different limitations on the promotions. For example, a
             first price may be quoted for placing a symbol on a reel, a second price
             may be quoted for filling the whole screen with a 30-second video, and so
15           on.
             In various embodiments, the casino may solicit bids from marketers to
             present promotions to a particular player. The marketers that place the
             highest bids for a given medium or slot may be given the opportunity to
20           present a promotion to the player. In various embodiments, more than one
             marketer who bids may be given the opportunity to promote to a player.
             The marketers with the higher bids may be given preferential slots. For
             example, the marketer with the highest bid may be given the largest screen
             area in which to promote. For example, the marketer with the highest bid
25           may be given the longest time slot in which to have a promotion presented.
             In various embodiments, the casino server may contain an inventory of
             promotions that are available to present to a player. The casino server may
             store rules (e.g., rules provided by the sponsor of the promotion) which
30           describe the criteria for presenting the promotions. A promotion may be
             stored as one or more computer files, including image files, audio files,
             video files, and so on. In various embodiments, the casino may request
                                                68

  WO 2008/070787                                                            PCT/US2007/086661
              promotions from marketers. For example, upon receiving an indication of
              a category of promotion from a player, the casino may solicit promotions
              from marketers who might wish to present promotions falling within the
              indicated category.
 5
         3.2. Sponsors or marketers may inform a player as to what sponsored
              outcomes he can get. "PickPepsi and get free spins ". In various
              embodiments, a player may be informed of a benefit he can receive in
              exchange for agreeing to view a promotion. In various embodiments, a
10            player may be informed of a benefit he can receive in exchange for
              agreeing to view a category of promotion. In various embodiments, a
              marketer may be willing to compensate a player for viewing or listening to
              a promotion. The compensation may take a number of forms.
              Compensation may include: (a) money; (b) gaming chips or gaming
15            credits; (c) increased odds of winning; (d) higher payouts (e.g., a jackpot
              may be increased); (e) reduced costs of wagering (e.g., a player may be
              given the opportunity to make a wager for $5 that would normally have
              been $10); (f) a free game (e.g., a free spin at a slot machine; e.g., a free
              game of video poker); (g) a free opportunity to enter the bonus round; (h)
20            hints given in a game (e.g., in a game of video poker, a player may receive
              hints); (i) a free or discounted music download; (j) a free or discounted
              software download; (k) a free or discounted ring-tone download; (1) a
              download of a video, cartoon, movie trailer, animation, television pilot
              episode, news clip, or other sequence; (1) a cashless gaming ticket; (m) a
25            ticket to a show; (n) a ticket to a movie; (o) complementary (comp) points;
              (p) a voucher; (q) a gift certificate; (r) a voucher for a free meal; (s) a free
              or discounted stay in a hotel room; and any other benefits. A marketer
              may provide any benefit either directly or indirectly to a player. In various
              embodiments, a marketer may directly provide cash to a player in
30            exchange for the player agreeing to view a promotion of the marketer. In
              various embodiments, a marketer may provide compensation to the casino,
              and the casino may in turn provide a benefit to the player, such as
                                                  69

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             increased odds of winning. The compensation provided to the casino may
             be equal to the expected cost to the casino of providing the benefit to the
             player.
 5           In various embodiments, two or more marketers may contribute to a
             benefit which will be provided to a player. For example, each of two
             automobile manufacturers may contribute a portion of the benefit that will
             be provided to a player for viewing automobile related promotions.
10           In various embodiments, a player may receive a fixed benefit from the
             casino for agreeing to be presented with promotions. The casino may then
             sell to marketers opportunities to present promotions to the player. The
             casino may attempt to sell such opportunities for as much money as it can
             get. The casino may profit from the difference in value between the
15           benefit provided to the player and the amounts received from the
             marketers.
             In various embodiments, a player may be presented with a table or other
             listing of benefits he might receive, together with criteria for receiving the
20           benefits. For example, a table may include a first column listing different
             categories of promotions. A second column in the table may list benefits
             the player would receive in exchange for being presented with such
             promotions. For example, a line in the table might list, "Watch Pepsi Ads"
             as the category of promotions, and "Get 10 Free Spins" as the benefit.
25
    4. Triggersforpromotions. Promotions may be presented at various times and
        under various circumstances. In one situation, a player may be engaged in
        playing a game on the mobile gaming device. A promotion may be presented
        to the player on the screen while the game is occurring (e.g., the promotion is
30      presented as a symbol; e.g., the promotion is presented on screen space to the
        side of the screen space displaying the game), on the screen between games, on
        the screen while a resolution of a game is pending, as an audio broadcast
                                               70

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
        during the game, and so on. In one situation, a player may not be engaged in
        playing a game and promotions may be presented to on the mobile gaming
        device. Promotions may be presented continuously, periodically, sporadically,
        when the mobile gaming device comes to a particular location, and so on.
 5      4.1. Broadcastingof advertisingcontent to othersphysically near a player.If a
             player is near others, the volume on your device can go up so that others
             hear the advertisingon your device. "You have just won a FREE COKE".
             In various embodiments, a promotion may be triggered by the presence of
             a nearby human being. The nearby human being may be someone other
10           than the player of the mobile gaming device which is presenting the
             promotion. For example, if the mobile gaming device detects the presence
             of a human being other than the player, the mobile gaming device may
             broadcast a promotion. In various embodiments, the mobile gaming
             device may broadcast a promotion in response to the presence of any
15           human being, including the player of the mobile gaming device. A mobile
             gaming device may detect the presence of another human being in various
             ways. The mobile gaming device may include a microphone. The
             microphone may pick up ambient audio signals. The mobile gaming
             device may analyze ambient audio signals for tell-tell human sounds, such
20           as the sound of a voice, the sound of breathing, the sound of steps, and so
             on. For example, the mobile gaming device may use special software
             which is tuned to recognize voice signals. The mobile gaming device may
             recognize the presence of humans by other means. For example, the
             mobile gaming device may include a heat or infrared sensor. The mobile
25           gaming device may use such a sensor to pick up the heat signatures of
             humans. In various embodiments, the mobile gaming device may include
             a camera. The camera may periodically snap pictures of its surroundings.
             The mobile gaming device may include image processing software for
             analyzing the pictures. The image processing software may have the
30           capability to recognize images associated with humans. In various
             embodiments, the mobile gaming device may recognize the presence of
             humans via devices associated with the humans. For example, the mobile
                                              71

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
             gaming device may recognize the signal from a nearby cell phone, e.g., by
             receiving the signal at an antenna associated with the mobile gaming
             device. Presumably, the cell phone is being carried by a human. Thus, by
             recognizing the presence of a cell phone, the mobile gaming device may
 5           be indirectly recognizing the presence of a human. In various
             embodiments, the mobile gaming device may recognize the presence of
             another mobile gaming device. Presumably, the other mobile gaming
             device is being held or carried by another human. Thus, by recognizing
             another mobile gaming device, the first mobile gaming device may
10           indirectly recognize the presence of another human.
             In various embodiments, upon recognizing the presence of another human,
             the mobile gaming device may present a promotion. The promotion may
             thereby have the chance of being perceived not only by the player of the
15           mobile gaming device, but also by the other human who is in proximity to
             the mobile gaming device. The effect of the promotion may thereby be
             amplified.
             In various embodiments, upon recognizing the presence of another human,
20           the mobile gaming device may increase the volume with which a
             promotion is presented. The increased volume may make it more likely
             that the other human will perceive the promotion.
             In various embodiments, upon recognizing the presence of another human,
25           the mobile gaming device may increase the brightness of a display.
             Increasing the brightness of its display may make it more likely that the
             other human may perceive the graphics on the display. Such graphics may
             include graphics associated with promotions.
30      4.2. Broadcastingwith more light in a brightly-lit environment (e.g., in the
             pool). In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may increase the
             brightness of its display based on the strength of ambient light. For
                                               72

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             example, the mobile gaming device may increase the brightness of its
             display as the brightness of ambient light increases. For example, the
             mobile gaming device may make its display bright if the mobile gaming
             device is outside in the sunlight, while the mobile gaming device may
 5           make its display dimmer when the mobile gaming device is within a
             casino. In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may include a
             light sensor. The sensor may detect ambient light conditions. Based on
             readings from the sensor, the mobile gaming device may either increase or
             decrease the brightness of its display. In various embodiments, increasing
10           the brightness of a display may make it easier for a player of the mobile
             gaming device to perceive promotions and/or other graphics while in the
             presence of bright light. In various embodiments, decreasing the
             brightness of its display may allow the mobile gaming device to increase
             battery life. Thus, in various embodiments, the mobile gaming device may
15           decrease the brightness of its display in areas where a bright display is not
             needed, such as indoors.
        4.3. Somebody nearyou wins. For example, someone on slot machine nearby
             wins. Your mobile device says, "You can have that too, ifyou'll just..."
             In various embodiments, a promotion may be presented to a first player of
20           a mobile gaming device based on the game results of a nearby player. The
             nearby player may be a player of a slot machine, video poker machine,
             mobile gaming device, or any other gaming device. The nearby player
             may have just: (a) won a game; (b) won a large payout (e.g., a payout of
             40 or more coins); (c) won a jackpot; (d) entered into a bonus round; (e)
25           had a near miss; (f) lost a game; (g) run out of money; (h) cashed out; or
             may have been involved in any other game event or outcome. Based on
             the game event, result, or outcome of the nearby player, a promotion may
             be presented to the first player.
30           In various embodiments, if the nearby player has had a favorable outcome,
             then a promotion may be presented to the first player. The promotion may
             offer the first player the opportunity to experience a similar outcome as has
                                               73

  WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
              the nearby player, if the first player will only engage in some activity. The
              activity may include viewing an advertisement or presentation, test driving
              an automobile, answering a survey question, testing or sampling a product
              or service, providing some information about him or herself (e.g.,
 5            demographic information), providing contact information about himself,
              providing contact information about another person (e.g., a friend; e.g., a
              family member), and so on. Thus, for example, the first player may have
              the opportunity to experience an outcome similar to the outcome that the
              nearby player has just experienced if the first player would only view a
10            ten-minute promotion on his mobile gaming device and answer two survey
              questions related to the promotion.
              In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may determine the
              results or outcomes of a nearby player in various ways. The mobile
15            gaming device may transmit to the casino server its location. The casino
              server may determine a gaming device that is proximate to the location of
              the mobile gaming device. The casino server may determine an outcome
              that has just occurred at the gaming device. The casino server may
              transmit to the mobile gaming device an indication of the outcome.
20
              If the first player accepts the offer of his mobile gaming device, then the
              mobile gaming device may allow the first player to engage in the activity.
              For example, the mobile gaming device may present a ten-minute
              promotion and then present survey questions about the promotion for the
25            first player to answer. Once the first player has successfully engaged in
              the activity, the mobile gaming device may provide the first player with
              the same outcome as had been achieved by the nearby player. For
              example, if the nearby player had won a payout of 50 credits, the first
              player may be given 50 credits. For example, if the nearby player had won
30            entry into a bonus round, then the first player may be given entry into the
              bonus round.
                                                 74

  WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
         4.4. You win an outcome. In various embodiments, a promotion may be
              presented to a player if the player has achieved a winning outcome. A
              promotion may be presented to a player if the player has: (a) received a
              positive payout; (b) received a payout that is greater than the amount
 5            wagered; (c) received a payout that exceeds a certain threshold (e.g., 10
              coins); (d) achieved entry into a bonus round; and so on. The time when a
              player achieves a winning outcome may be an opportune time to present a
              promotion to the player, because the player may be in a good mood. The
              player may thereby be more receptive to the message of the promotion.
10            The player may also transfer the positive feelings associated with the
              winning outcome to the subject of the promotion. For example, if a
              particular brand of potato chips is presented to a player right after the
              player has achieved a winning outcome, then the player may associate
              those potato chips with the positive feeling of winnings.
15
              In various embodiments, a marketer may pay more to have its promotion
              presented if the promotion is presented following a winning outcome.
              This may occur because the player may be more likely to have positive
              feelings associated with the promotion following a winning outcome than
20            following a non-winning outcome. Thus, in various embodiments, a
              marketer may pay a first amount to have a presentation promoted at a first
              time not following a winning outcome, and may pay a second amount
              which is greater than the first amount to have the promotion presented at a
              second time following a winning outcome.
25
         4.5. You win a big payout. In various embodiments, a promotion may be
              presented to a player if the player has won a large payout. A large payout
              may be defined as a payout exceeding X credits, where X may be e.g., 50,
              100, 1000, or any threshold number of credits. In various embodiments, a
30            large payout may be defined as a payout whose quantity is greater than X
              multiple of the amount wagered, where the multiple may be e.g., 50, 100,
              1000, or any threshold multiple.
                                                75

 WO 2008/070787                                                            PCT/US2007/086661
        4.6. You win a certain amount. In various embodiments, a promotion may be
             presented to a player if the player has won a certain aggregate amount.
             The aggregate amount may represent total payouts over a certain period
 5           less amounts wagered. The aggregate amount may represent total payouts
             regardless of amounts wagered. For example, a promotion may be
             presented to a player if the player has won 100 coins net of amounts
             wagered over the past hour.
10      4.7. You have a near miss. In various embodiments, a promotion may be
             presented to a player if the player has had a near miss. For example, if the
             player has achieved four cards to a royal flush, if a person has achieved
             four out of five required jackpot symbols, or if a person has landed one
             spot away on a spinning wheel from the jackpot space, the player may be
15           presented with a promotion. The promotion may read, "Oh, so close
             well, at least you can rent a car for only $20 per day at Jim's car rental."
             In some embodiments, a promotion may offer the player the chance to
             achieve the missed outcome if the player will perform some activity. For
             example, if the player agrees to spend a day in a cabin in a retirement
20           community, the player may receive a payout as if he had achieved the
             nearly missed outcome.
        4.8. Location. In various embodiments, a promotion may be triggered by the
             location of a player. In various embodiments, a promotion may be
25           presented to a player if the player is in a first location, but not if the player
             is in a second location. In various embodiments, a first promotion may be
             presented to a player if the player is in a first location, and a second
             promotion may be presented to the player if the player is in a second
             location. In various embodiments, a promotion may be presented to a
30           player if the mobile gaming device of the player is in a particular location.
             The player may be assumed to be in the same location as the mobile
             gaming device.
                                                76

 WO 2008/070787                                                             PCT/US2007/086661
            4.8.1.    Walk by a store. In various embodiments, a promotion may be
                  triggered as a mobile gaming device comes into the proximity of a
                   store. The promotion may show images or video depicting products
                  in the store. The promotion may present text descriptions of store
 5                items. The promotion may describe available discounts within the
                   store. In various embodiments, a promotion may be triggered as a
                  mobile gaming device comes into proximity of any retailer, such as a
                   store, a restaurant, a roadside stand, a gas station, a car repair shop,
                   and so on. Proximity may be defined, in various embodiments, as
10                being within 100 feet, as being on the same block, as being within
                   sight, as being within walking distance, as being within a mile, as
                  being directly in front of, or as any other appropriate distance range.
                  In various embodiments, a promotion may include an offer of a
15                benefit if the player of the mobile gaming device walks into the
                  retailer, buys a product at the retailer, tests a product at the retailer, or
                  otherwise interacts with the retailer. The benefit offered may include:
                   (a) money; (b) gaming chips or gaming credits; (c) increased odds of
                  winning; (d) higher payouts (e.g., a jackpot may be increased); (e)
20                reduced costs of wagering (e.g., a player may be given the opportunity
                  to make a wager for $5 that would normally have been $10); (f) a free
                   game (e.g., a free spin at a slot machine; e.g., a free game of video
                  poker); (g) a free opportunity to enter the bonus round; (h) hints given
                  in a game (e.g., in a game of video poker, a player may receive hints);
25                 and so on. Thus, for example, a player of a mobile gaming device
                  may receive an offer of 10 free spins in a game of slots if he walks
                  into a retailer.
                  In various embodiments, a representative of a retailer, such as a store
30                owner or manager, may be informed as a mobile gaming device
                   approaches the store. The representative of the retailer may have the
                  opportunity to decide on an offer for the player in substantially real
                                                 77

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
                time. For example, the representative may determine whether any
                items in the store are currently overstocked. The representative may
                accordingly offer the player a special discount on such items. The
                representative may also be given information about the player. For
 5              example, the representative may receive information about the
                player's age, race, marital status, gender, and so on. The
                representative may also receive information about recent outcomes
                achieved by the player. The representative may use such information
                in tailoring a promotion for the player. For example, if the player is a
10              man, the store owner may offer him a discount on a tie. If the player
                is a woman, the store owner may offer her a discount on a blouse.
                The mobile gaming device may transmit information about the player
                to nearby stores, thus allowing store representatives to learn
                information about the player. In various embodiments, the mobile
15              gaming device may transmit to a nearby retailer a player identifier,
                such as a player name. The retailer may transmit to the casino server
                the player identifier. The retailer may thereupon receive from the
                casino server further information about the player. Information
                received about a player may include: (a) the last outcome achieved by
20              the player; (b) the last large outcome received by the player; (c) total
                winnings for the player in the past X period of time (e.g., total
                winnings for the player in the last 10 minutes, the last day, the last
                hour, the last two days, etc.); (d) net or gross winnings for a player in
                the last X period of time; and so on.
25
                In various embodiments, a retailer may include a retail computer or
                retail server. The computer or server may execute algorithms for
                determining a promotion for a passing player. The promotion may be
                determined based on conditions within the store. The promotion may
30              also be determined based on information received about the player.
                For example, the promotion may be determined based on whether the
                player has recently won a significant amount of money while
                                               78

  WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
                 gambling. For example, if a player has won a large amount of money
                 recently, the store may promote to the player a relatively expensive
                 product. The idea behind the promotion may be that the player is in a
                 good spending mood in light of his recent good fortune. The retail
 5               server may receive signals from the mobile gaming device and/or
                 from the casino server, with such signals describing information about
                 the player. The retail server may use such information to
                 automatically determine a promotion for the player. The promotion
                 may be automatically transmitted to the mobile gaming device of the
10               player. The promotion may then appear on the screen of the mobile
                 gaming device. The promotion may be broadcast using speakers of
                 the mobile gaming device. In various embodiments, the retail server
                 may determine a promotion for the player. The retail server may
                 display an indication of the promotion to a representative of the
15               retailer. The representative may then communicate the promotion to
                 the player. For example, the representative may walk out in front of
                 the retail establishment, greet the player, and present the promotion to
                 the player (e.g., offer the player a discount on a product within the
                 store).
20
                 In various embodiments, a retailer and/or the casino server may track
                 purchase data from players. For example, the retailer and/or the
                 casino server may maintain a database. The database may include
                 information about a player coupled with data describing an amount a
25               player spent (e.g., on products or services), a type of product
                 purchased by the player (e.g., clothes; e.g., shoes; e.g., jewelry);
                 whether or not a player tested a product or service, whether or not a
                 player walked into a store, whether or not a player indicated interest in
                 an item, and so on. Data about a player may include data describing
30               player demographics, including age, race, gender, income, marital
                 status, and so on. Data about the player may also include data about
                 gambling results of the player, possibly including recent outcomes
                                                79

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
                achieved, recent amounts won, amounts won in the last X period of
                time, total payouts less total amounts wagered in the last X period of
                time, amounts wagered, amounts wagered per game, and so on. The
                database may thus include demographic information about a player,
 5              information about the gambling results of the player, and purchasing
                results of the player. The database may contain such information
                about a large number of players. For example, the database may
                contain one record for each player. Each record may include
                information about a player's demographics, purchasing information,
10              and information about gambling results achieved.
                In various embodiments, an algorithm may be used to derive
                correlations between two types of information such as purchasing
                decisions and gaming outcomes achieved prior to the purchasing
15              decision. For example, algorithms may be used to determine
                correlations between amounts won while gaming during a given
                period of time, and amounts spent at a retailer following the period of
                time. The output of the algorithm might indicate, for example, that
                the more a player wins during the hour prior to visiting a retail store,
20              the more the player is likely to spend at the retail store.
                In general, given historical information about players' gaming
                outcomes and purchasing decisions, and given information about a
                particular player's recent gaming performance (or gaming
25              performance over more than just the recent past), algorithms may be
                used to predict the particular player's likely purchasing decisions.
                Such algorithms may be used to predict a player's likely response to
                promotions. For example, a representative of a retail establishment
                may receive information about an approaching player. The
30              information may indicate that the player has won a jackpot in the last
                hour. The retailer may key that information into a predictive
                algorithm. The algorithm may tell the retailer that the player is more
                                              80

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
                likely than a typical person to want to purchase an expensive item.
                The algorithm may further recommend an item to offer to the player.
                The algorithm may have access to a database or other listing of store
                items. The algorithm may have access to a database or other listing of
 5              prices, costs, or other measures of value of store items. Based on
                predictions of the player's spending, and based on the descriptions of
                items and their values, the algorithm may determine which item to
                offer to the player. The algorithm may output a test description of
                such item to the store representative. The representative may
10              approach the player and inform the player that this item is available
                and even that the player may receive a special discount on the item.
                In some embodiments, the algorithm may transmit a promotion
                directly to the mobile gaming device of the approaching player. For
                example, the algorithm may transmit a promotion indicating that a
15              fine coat is available only to that player for $700.
                In various embodiments, data recorded about a player may include
                data describing promotions presented to the player. Data recorded
                and/or stored may further include data describing a player's reaction
20              to the promotions presented to him. Algorithms may be used to
                correlate information about the players' recent gaming outcomes to
                players' reactions to promotions. For example, an algorithm may find
                that a player is more likely to respond to humor-based promotions
                when the player has just won money, and that a player is more likely
25              to respond to value-based promotions when the player has just lost
                money. Thus, algorithms may be used to predict which promotion or
                type of promotion would be most effective given a player's recent
                gaming outcomes.
30              In various embodiments, information about a player's gaming
                outcomes may be received at a retail computer from the player's
                mobile gaming device. In various embodiments, information about a
                                              81

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
                player's gaming outcomes may be received at a retail computer from
                the casino server. In various embodiments, algorithms used to predict
                which products a player might like to purchase may be executed by
                the casino server. In various embodiments, algorithms used to predict
 5              which products a player might like to purchase may be executed by a
                retail server. Such algorithms may, in various embodiments, be
                executed by the player's mobile gaming device. In various
                embodiments, one or more human representatives may work in
                conjunction with predictive algorithms in order to determine a
10              particular promotion for a player. For example, a predictive algorithm
                may determine a price range of a product that should be offered to a
                player. Based on that price range, a representative may determine a
                particular product to offer to the player, given the representative's
                knowledge of different product pricing. As another example, a
15              predictive algorithm may determine a type of promotion (e.g., video;
                e.g., audio; e.g., still image; e.g., 30-second; e.g., 5-second; e.g., offer
                of a discount; etc.). A human, such as a representative of a retailer,
                may determine the exact promotion to send to the player. In various
                embodiments, a human may make a live presentation of a promotion.
20              For example, a representative of a retailer may call a player on his
                mobile gaming device. The mobile gaming device may, for example,
                function as a cellular telephone. The human may make a sales pitch
                to the player. A human may also present a promotion via text. In
                various embodiments, the determination and presentation of a
25              promotion may be done automatically, without any human
                intervention. For example, a player with a mobile gaming device may
                approach a retail store while walking in the hallways of a mall. The
                mobile gaming device may detect its own coordinates using an
                internal positioning system. The mobile gaming device may transmit
30              its coordinates to a casino server. The casino server, based on the
                coordinates, may determine that the mobile gaming device is near to a
                particular retail store. The casino server may have previously
                                               82

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
                received information about gaming outcomes of the player via signal
                from the mobile gaming device. The casino server may thereupon use
                information about the player's recent gaming outcomes, together with
                information about the products at the retail store, to derive a
 5              promotion for the player. The casino server may transmit such a
                promotion to the player. In some embodiments, the casino server may
                transmit the promotion to the retail store. The retail store may then
                relay the promotion to the mobile gaming device of the player. As
                will be appreciated, information about a player, such as information
10              about outcomes achieved by the player, may be received at various
                locations, such as at a retail store or at a casino server. Similarly, as
                will be appreciated, a promotion can be determined at several places,
                including at a casino server, mobile gaming device, or at a retail store.
                The promotion may be transmitted to the mobile gaming device of the
15              player from several places, such as from the retail store or from the
                casino server. In various embodiments, the mobile gaming device
                may store information internally about a retail store. For example, the
                mobile gaming device may store possible promotions that might be
                available from a retail store. The mobile gaming device, based on
20              gaming results of the player of the mobile gaming device, may
                determine which of the internally stored promotions to actually
                present to a player. The mobile gaming device may employ predictive
                algorithms in making the presentation.
25              In various embodiments, information about purchasing habits of
                players may be shared among retail establishments. For example, a
                large database may be assembled from data gathered at several retail
                establishments. The database may include records for various players,
                some of whom have made purchases at a first retail establishment, and
30              some of whom have made purchases at a second retail establishment.
                The larger sample size of such a database, as opposed to a database
                with customers ofjust a single retail establishment, may make it
                                               83

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
                possible to come up with better predictive algorithms for a player's
                purchasing decisions.
                Perspectivesfor the determinationof offers for retailestablishments
 5              In various embodiments, a casino server may determine one or more
                outcomes for a player of a mobile gaming device. The casino server
                may transmit such outcomes to the mobile gaming device. The
                mobile gaming device may present such outcomes to the player.
10              The casino server may track the location of the mobile gaming device.
                The casino server may determine when the mobile gaming device is
                proximate to a retail establishment.
                The casino server may receive data from the retail establishment. For
15              example, the POS terminal of the retail establishment may indicate
                inventory levels of various products, and communicate the inventory
                levels to the casino server. The retail establishment may communicate
                other data, such as data about product values, product wholesale costs,
                expected delivery dates of new products, historical demand for
20              products, customer traffic at the retail shop, and any other pertinent
                data.
                The casino server may use the data received from the retailer to
                determine promotions on behalf of the retail establishment. For
25              example, if the retailer has an excess of a certain product, the casino
                server may determine a promotion which offers the product at a
                discount.
                Based on an outcome generated for a player of a mobile gaming
30              device, the casino server may determine a promotion for the player of
                the mobile gaming device. The casino server may determine a first
                promotion if a first outcome is generated, and a second promotion if a
                                              84

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
                second outcome is generated. For example, if the outcome generated
                is a winning outcome, the casino server may determine a promotion
                which advertises an expensive product. If the outcome generated is a
                losing outcome, the casino server may determine a promotion that
 5              offers a discount to the player.
                The casino server may determine a promotion to present to a player of
                a mobile gaming device based on the fact that a player is within a
                certain distance of the retail establishment, or based on the fact that
10              the player is within a certain geographic region, area, or locality. For
                example, the casino server may transmit a promotion to the mobile
                gaming device of a player for presentation only if the player is within
                50 feet of the retail establishment that is being promoted.
15              Thus, a casino server may determine an outcome which has been
                generated for a player of a mobile gaming device. The casino server
                may receive data from a retail establishment. The casino server may
                determine a distance between the mobile gaming device and the retail
                establishment. Based on these factors, the casino server may
20              determine a promotion which promotes the retail establishment to the
                player. The casinos server may cause the promotion to be presented
                to the player via the mobile gaming device of the player. For
                example, the casino server may transmit data to the mobile gaming
                device, where such data describes or encodes the promotion. The
25              mobile gaming device may then present the promotion to the player.
                In various embodiments, a retail establishment may receive an
                indication that a mobile gaming device is in proximity to the retail
                establishment. The indication may be received via direct
30              communication from the mobile gaming device, or via communication
                from the casino server (e.g., the casino server may determine that the
                mobile gaming device is in proximity to the retail establishment and
                                               85

  WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
                 may communicate such information to the retail establishment). The
                 retail establishment may determine a promotion for the player of the
                 mobile gaming device. The retail establishment may determine such
                 promotion based on various data, such as inventory levels, future
 5               delivery dates for new products, wholesale costs, ability to return
                 unsold items, and so on. The retail establishment may also receive an
                 indication of an outcome achieved by the player of the mobile gaming
                 device. The retail establishment may receive any information about a
                 player's results, including an indication of recent winnings, an
10               indication of a gross amount won, an indication of a net amount won,
                 and so on. The retail establishment may determine a promotion for
                 presentation to the player based on an outcome received by the player.
                 The retail establishment may determine a promotion for presentation
                 to the player based on any historical results of the player. The retail
15               establishment may determine a promotion based both on the historical
                 results of the player and based on the fact that the player is proximate
                 to the retailer. For example, if the player is proximate to the retail
                 establishment and the player has just won a large payout, then the
                 retail establishment may determine a promotion which highlights a
20               luxury product of the retail establishment. The retail establishment
                 may transmit the promotion to the mobile gaming device. The retail
                 establishment may transmit the promotion to the casino server. The
                 casino server may then transmit the promotion to the mobile gaming
                 device.
25
                 In various embodiments, the mobile gaming device may receive
                 information from a retail establishment. The information may include
                 information about inventory levels, current customer traffic levels,
                 historical customer traffic levels, or any other pertinent information.
30               The mobile gaming device may determine whether or not it is near to
                 the retail establishment. If the mobile gaming device is near to the
                 retail establishment, then the mobile gaming device may determine a
                                               86

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
                 promotion to present to the player, the promotion serving to promote
                 products or services of the retail establishment. The promotion may
                 be determined based on information provided by the retail
                  establishment. The information provided by the retail establishment
 5               may be transmitted directly from the retail establishment to the mobile
                  gaming device. The information provided by the retail establishment
                 may be transmitted first to the casino server and then to the mobile
                  gaming device. In various embodiments, the retail establishment may
                  determine whether or not the mobile gaming device is near to the
10               retail establishment. The retail establishment may then inform the
                 mobile gaming device, either directly or through the casino server. In
                 various embodiments, the casino server may determine whether the
                 mobile gaming device is near to the retail establishment. The casino
                  server may inform the mobile gaming device if it is near the retail
15                establishment.
                4.8.1. .Use the mobile gaming device as an automatic, custom tailored
                       coupon. An individualizedcoupon. In various embodiments, a
                       mobile gaming device may store coupons, gift certificates, or
20                     other tokens which confer value or discounts. Coupons may be
                       transmitted to a mobile gaming device at various times. In
                       various embodiments, a player may win coupons, gift
                       certificates, or other benefits while playing a game. For
                       example, if a player lines up three "Macy's" symbols on a slot
25                     machine, the player may win a $100 gift certificate to Macy's.
                       In various embodiments, the coupons, gift certificates, or other
                       tokens of value may be stored in electronic form on a mobile
                       gaming device. In order to use the coupons, gift certificates, etc.,
                       at a retail establishment, the player may bring his mobile gaming
30                     device to a retail establishment. The mobile gaming device may
                       communicate information about the coupon, gift certificate, or
                       other token to a computer of the retail establishment. The
                                                87

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
                        communication may occur in various ways. For example, the
                        mobile gaming device may communicate to the computer of the
                        retail establishment a sequence of bits that uniquely identifies a
                        particular certificate, coupon, etc. In various embodiments, a
 5                      mobile gaming device may display on its display screen a bar
                        code which identifies a coupon, gift certificate or other token of
                        value. The bar code displayed on the display screen of the
                        mobile gaming device may be scanned by the retail
                        establishment, e.g., using a typical bar code scanner. In this way,
10                      the player may carry around coupons, or gift certificates on his
                        mobile gaming device. The player may redeem them at retail
                        establishments from his mobile gaming device.
            4.8.2. Proximity to anothermobile device. In various embodiments,
15                proximity to a second mobile gaming device may trigger the
                  presentation of a promotion in a first mobile gaming device. When
                  the second mobile gaming device is near, the promotion at the first
                  mobile gaming device may be seen or heard by the player of the
                  second mobile gaming device.
20
        4.9. Time. In various embodiments, time may serve as a trigger for a
             promotion. For example, a promotion may be triggered at a certain time of
             day, at a certain date, or at a certain year. As another example, a time
             since an event may serve as a trigger. For example, a promotion may be
25           triggered 5 minutes after the last promotion has been presented.
            4.9.1. A certain amount of time has elapsed since the lastpromotion. In
                  various embodiments, a promotion may be triggered once a certain
                  amount of time has elapsed from a prior promotion. The prior
                  promotion may be any promotion. For example, a current promotion
30                may be triggered to be presented once one minute has elapsed since
                  the last promotion on a mobile gaming device was presented. The
                  prior promotion may be a promotion of the same type or category.
                                                 88

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
                  For example, a promotion for toothpaste might be triggered when it
                  has been 30 minutes since the last promotion for toothpaste. The
                  same promotion may be triggered, however, when only 1 minute has
                  lapsed since the last unrelated promotion. By creating a greater time
 5                spacing between promotions of the same type, player boredom may be
                  alleviated. In various embodiments, when a certain minimum time
                  gap is kept between the presentation of any promotion, player
                  annoyance may be alleviated. In various embodiments, when a
                  certain maximum time gap is allowed between the presentation of
10                promotions, player exposure to promotions may be increased and thus
                  revenues for the casino and for the marketers may be increased.
            4.9.2. It is a certain time of day. For example, advertisefood during
                  lunch time. In various embodiments, the presentation of a promotion
                  may be triggered by the time of day. Products which are typically
15                purchased during a particular time of day may be promoted during
                  that time of day. A promotion for breakfast may be triggered early in
                  the day, such as at 7:00am. A promotion for lunch may be triggered
                  at 11:45am. A promotion for an evening show may be triggered at
                  6:00pm. A promotion may be triggered based on a merchant's
20                business hours. For example, a promotion for a merchant's products
                  may be triggered for presentation at the time the merchant opens for
                  business.
            4.9.3. Ambient conditions (e.g., temperature). In various embodiments, a
                  promotion may be triggered based on ambient conditions. A
25                promotion may be triggered based on the air temperature. If the air
                  temperature is over 90 degrees Fahrenheit, for example, a promotion
                  for a soft drink may be triggered. A mobile gaming device may
                  contain a temperature sensor. Readings from the temperature sensor
                  may be used to trigger promotions. In various embodiments, a mobile
30                gaming device may contain other sensors for sensing or determining
                  ambient conditions. A mobile gaming device may contain humidity
                  sensors for detecting ambient humidity or rain conditions. A mobile
                                               89

 WO 2008/070787                                                       PCT/US2007/086661
                gaming device may contain light sensors for detecting ambient
                brightness, cloudiness, and so on. A mobile gaming device may
                contain microphones for detecting ambient noise conditions. In
                various embodiments, promotions of a certain form may be presented
 5              depending on ambient conditions. For example, if ambient noise
                levels are high, then a primarily visually-based promotion may be
                triggered for presentation. If ambient noise levels are low, then a
                promotion which includes audio components may be presented. Thus,
                in various embodiments, a mobile gaming device, a casino server, or
10              another entity may determine ambient noise levels in the vicinity of a
                mobile gaming device. Based on the ambient noise levels, a
                promotion may be selected for presentation. The selection process
                may consider whether the promotion has audio components to it. In
                various embodiments, ambient brightness levels may be used to
15              determine what types of promotions will be presented. If ambient
                brightness levels are high, promotions with a greater audio component
                may be presented. For example, in a bright, sunlit environment, a
                mobile gaming device may be more likely to present promotions with
                a higher audio component. In a dim environment, a mobile gaming
20              device may be more likely to present promotions with more of a
                visual component.
                In various embodiments, rules, customs, regulations, and other
                conditions may determine which promotions may be used. For
25              example, a mobile gaming device may be inside a theater where a
                show is in progress. In such an environment, a promotion with an
                audio component may be distracting to surrounding patrons of the
                theater. Thus, the mobile gaming device may determine promotions
                that have little or no audio components. It should be understood that
30              selecting a promotion with no audio component may include selecting
                a promotion with an audio component and suppressing the audio
                component. For example, if the mobile gaming device determines
                                              90

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
                that it should present a promotion with no audio component, the
                mobile gaming device may select a promotion that previously had an
                audio component and mute the audio component. Further, it should
                be understood that selecting a promotion that does not have a visual
 5              component may include selecting a promotion with a visual
                component and suppressing the visual component.
                In various embodiments, the mobile gaming device may receive
                signals from a casino server describing rules, customs, regulations,
10              and so on in the vicinity of the mobile gaming device. Based on such
                signals, the mobile gaming device may determine whether a particular
                promotion is suitable for presentation. In various embodiments, based
                on the location of a mobile gaming device, a casino server may
                instruct the mobile gaming device directly as to whether or not certain
15              promotions may be presented. For example, the casino server may
                transmit to a mobile gaming device instructions explicitly forbidding
                the presentation of a particular promotion, or explicitly instructing the
                mobile gaming device to present a particular promotion.
20              In various embodiments, a casino server may send to a mobile gaming
                device promotions that are appropriate for presentation based on the
                conditions in the vicinity of the mobile gaming device. For example,
                the casino server may receive position information from the mobile
                gaming device. The casino server may then determine what an
25              appropriate promotion is based on the location of the mobile gaming
                device. For example, if the mobile gaming device is located in a
                conference room during the time of a conference, the casino server
                may determine that an audio promotion is inappropriate. Accordingly,
                the casino server may only transmit to the mobile gaming device a
30              promotion with a video component.
                                              91

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
                 In various embodiments, if ambient conditions include rain, then a
                 promotion for umbrellas may be shown. If ambient conditions include
                 rain, then promotions for indoor activities (e.g., for shows) may be
                 triggered. In various embodiments promotions may be suppressed
 5               based on ambient conditions. For example, if ambient conditions
                 include rain, then promotions for outdoor tours may be suppressed.
                 In various embodiments, ambient conditions surrounding a mobile
                  gaming device may be detected by the mobile gaming device. In
10               various embodiments, ambient conditions may be detected by some
                 other entity, such as by a weather service. The mobile gaming device
                 may receive signals about ambient conditions from other entities, such
                  as from a weather service or such as from a casino server. The mobile
                  gaming device may then use such information in determining which
15               promotions to present. In various embodiments, a mobile gaming
                  device may simply be instructed as to what promotions to present.
                  The determination as to which promotions to present may be made by
                  some other entity, such as by a casino server. The casino server, may,
                 in turn, use information about ambient conditions in determining
20               which promotions should be presented.
            4.9.4. Based on the player's own stated interests. In various
                  embodiments, the interests of a player of a mobile gaming device may
                  serve to trigger which promotions are presented at the mobile gaming
25                device. For example, if a player is interested in cars, promotions
                 relating to cars may be presented. For example, if a player is
                 interested in sports, promotions for sports tickets, fantasy sports
                  leagues, or sports memorabilia may be presented. In various
                  embodiments, a player's interests may be deduced in various ways. A
30               player may be asked about his interests. A player may be asked about
                 his interests when he first checks out a mobile gaming device, when
                 he first starts playing games at a mobile gaming device, during the
                                               92

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
                  course of a gaming session, or at any other time. A player's interests
                  may be deduced from the actions of a player. For example, suppose a
                  promotion is shown to the player. If the player responds to the
                  promotion, e.g., by touching the display screen in an area labeled
 5                "touch here to get more information about this product", then the
                  player may be assumed to be interested in products related to the
                  product which is the subject of the promotion. Player interests may
                  also be deduced through other means. For example, the player may
                  make purchases at a retailer. The retailer may forward the name of the
10                player to the casino server, possibly including with the player's name
                  an indication of the products the player has purchased. The casino
                  server may then assume that the player has interest in products similar
                  to those purchased at the retailer.
            4.9.5. You are in between games. In various embodiments, the trigger for
15                a promotion may be that a game on a mobile gaming device has
                  finished. For example, a particular promotion may be best suited only
                  to occur between games. For example, the promotion may require the
                  full area of the display screen of the mobile gaming device. For
                  example, the promotion may require the full attention of the player.
20                In various embodiments, a promotion may be presented if a game has
                  finished and new game has not been started within a predetermined
                  period of time. For example, if a player has completed a game and
                  not started the next game in five seconds, then a mobile gaming
                  device may trigger the presentation of a new promotion. A player
25                may be more receptive to a promotion if the player is not currently
                  involved in a game.
        4.10.        Poorconnectivity. For example, ifyou can't be connected to the
             server at the moment, then show an advertisement. In various
             embodiments, a promotion may be presented if there is any disruption in
30           communication or connectivity between the mobile gaming device and the
             casino server. In various embodiments, the mobile gaming device may be
             required to maintain communication with the casino server while allowing
                                                93

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             a player to engage in gaming activities. For example, the casino server
             may be required to continuously verify that the mobile gaming device is on
             the premises of the casino in order for a player of the mobile gaming
             device to be allowed to engage in gaming activities. Thus, if there is a
 5           disruption in the communication, the mobile gaming device may be
             prevented from allowing the player to game. A disruption in
             communication might then present a good opportunity for the presentation
             of promotions, since the player may not be able to play games.
        4.11.        Amount of battery life left. In various embodiments, the amount of
10           battery life left in a mobile gaming device might influence whether or not
             a promotion is presented. In various embodiments, the amount of battery
             life left in a mobile gaming device may influence which promotion is
             presented. In various embodiments the amount of battery life left in a
             mobile gaming device might influence the manner in which a promotion is
15           presented. Presenting a promotion may require battery power. For
             example, audio associated with a promotion may require that a speaker of
             a mobile gaming device be powered in order to generate the audio output.
             As another example, presenting a promotion between games may require
             power for illuminating the display screen. As another example, in various
20           embodiments, presenting a promotion may first require downloading the
             promotion from a casino server. For instance, the casino server may
             transmit to the mobile gaming device image and audio files to be played as
             part of the promotion. The downloading process may require wireless
             communication, which may use up battery power of the mobile gaming
25           device. In situations where remaining battery power is low, the
             conservation of such battery power might allow a player to play extra
             games at the mobile gaming device before the battery runs out. This may
             result in extra revenue for the casino, as well as reduced frustration for the
             player. Therefore, in various embodiments, when the power left in a
30           battery goes below a certain threshold, a promotion may be suppressed. In
             various embodiments, when the power left in a battery goes below a
             certain threshold, a promotion which requires less battery power to present
                                                94

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
             may be favored for presentation over a promotion that requires more
             battery power to present. Given two promotions of equal priority, the
             mobile gaming device may be less likely to present the one which requires
             more power the less battery life there is remaining. In various
 5           embodiments, based on the battery power remaining in the battery of a
             mobile gaming device, the mobile gaming device may vary the manner in
             which a promotion is presented. In various embodiments, if the battery
             power is low, images associated with the promotion may be dimmed. In
             various embodiments, if battery power is low, audio associated with the
10           promotion may be played at a low volume, or may not be played at all. In
             various embodiments, if battery power is low, a promotion may be
             truncated, or otherwise compressed. For example, a five-second version of
             a video advertisement may be played rather than the full-length 15-second
             version. In various embodiments, battery life remaining, battery power
15           remaining, energy remaining, and other metrics may all be used in
             determining whether or not a promotion should be presented, which of two
             or more promotions should be presented, and the manner in which a
             promotion will be presented. In various embodiments, if battery life is
             below a certain threshold, promotions that are stored locally on the mobile
20           gaming device may be favored over promotions that must be newly
             downloaded from the casino server or from some other device. In this
             fashion, the power costs associated with downloading a promotion may be
             saved.
        4.12.       Amount of money left. In various embodiments, the amount of
25           money a player has remaining may influence what promotion is presented.
             The amount of money a player has remaining may also influence whether
             or not a promotion is presented. In various embodiments, if a player has a
             relatively small amount of money left, promotions may be presented to the
             player which offer the player monetary benefits or discounted gambling
30           opportunities. For example, if a player has less than $5 left, a promotion
             may be presented to the player, offering the player 5 free spins if he'll
             agree to be mailed an information packet about a new retirement savings
                                              95

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             vehicle. In various embodiments, if a player has a relatively large amount
             of money left (e.g., more than $500), then the player may be presented
             with promotions which advertise relatively expensive products or services,
             such as cars or jewelry.
 5      4.13.       Alerts and Messaging. In various embodiments, an alert or message
             may be sent to player of a mobile gaming device. In various
             embodiments, the same alert or message may be sent to multiple different
             players of mobile gaming devices. If there are many players using mobile
             gaming device, then the mobile gaming devices may serve as an effective
10           mass communication medium for messages, such as messages to be
             communicated to casino patrons. Various circumstances may trigger alerts
             or messages. If an alert is accompanied by sounds, then when the alert is
             sent to multiple mobile gaming devices in a casino, the sounds of
             simultaneous mobile gaming devices around the casino making sounds
15           may add emphasis and excitement to the occasion of the alert (e.g., to the
             occasion where some player has won a large jackpot).
            4.13.1. When someone wins the progressive,every player's mobile device
                  can vibrate and / or beep. A message can also be displayed on the
                  mobile device. In various embodiments, a first player of a mobile
20                gaming device may be alerted when a second player wins a significant
                  payout. A significant payout may include a jackpot, a top prize, a
                  prize of more than X amount (e.g., of more than $1000), and so on. In
                  various embodiments, an alert may take the form of beeping,
                  vibrations of the mobile gaming device, flashing lights, and so on.
25                An alert may indicate the name of the second player, the amount won
                  by the second player, the game the second player was playing when he
                  won, the home state of the second player, or any other information.
                  The alert or message may take the form of a text message, an audio
                  message, or any other kind of message.
30          4.13.2. The alert can also happen in response to other events, like a daily
                  bonus, someone winning more than $100 on a slot machine, or any
                  other significant event, or any other event. In various embodiments,
                                               96

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
                 an alert may inform one or more players when a drawing for a prize is
                 about to occur. For example, an alert may inform one or more players
                 when a keno drawing will occur. In various embodiments, an alert
                 may inform one or more players when a drawing is in the process of
 5               occurring. The alert may inform a player of partial outcomes. For
                 example, an alert may be sent from the casino server to a mobile
                 gaming device. The alert may detail one or more numbers which have
                 been drawn in a game of keno. The alert may include less than all the
                 numbers that are to be drawn for the game of keno. This may allow a
10               player who is viewing the alert to follow the game of keno as it is in
                 progress. In various embodiments, an alert may inform one or more
                 players that a drawing, chance event, contest, or other event is about
                 to occur, is in the process of occurring, or has occurred. For example,
                 a casino may run a general promotion where three players per day
15               who visit the casino can win a car in a daily drawing. The drawing
                 may occur every day at a particular time, such as at 4:00pm.
                 Accordingly, the casino may send an alert to one or more players prior
                 to the time of the drawing. The alert may get the player(s) in an
                 anticipatory mood for the drawing, and help the drawing to have its
20               intended effect of promoting the casino. The casino may send an alert
                 as the drawing is occurring. The casino may send an alert after the
                 drawing has occurred. The alert may include winning names drawn,
                 for example. The alert may include images, and descriptions of
                 people who won. In various embodiments, any alerts regarding
25               winners of prizes, drawings, contests, or other events may include
                 information about the winners, such as pictures, home towns, and so
                 on.
            4.13.3. The setting (what events triggerthe alert)can be configurable by
                 the user. In various embodiments, a player may indicate
30               circumstances under which he would like to receive an alert. In
                 various embodiments, a player might indicate triggers for an alert. A
                 player may provide such indications at various times. For example,
                                               97

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
                when a player first checks out a mobile device, the player may provide
                indications of what types of alerts he would like to receive. A player
                may provide indications when playing. For example, a player may
                 access a menu on the display screen of his mobile gaming device.
 5               The menu may allow the player to configure what alerts he would like
                to receive. The menu may list categories of alerts. For example, one
                 category of alert may be an alert that is sent when someone a jackpot
                is won. Another category of alert may be an alert that is sent when a
                jackpot reaches a certain level. Another category of alerts may be
10               alerts that are sent when a drawing or other event is set to occur. A
                player may select a category of alert, e.g., by checking a box or
                 selecting a menu item. A player may also be able to configure a
                numerical level for a prize before an alert will be sent. For example, a
                player may specify that he would only like to receive alerts when a
15              payout of more than $1000 has been won in the casino. In various
                 embodiments, a player may configure alerts over the internet. For
                 example, a player may visit a web page of the casino server. On the
                web page, the player may decide what types of alerts he would like to
                receive. The player may navigate menus, check boxes, enter text, or
20              otherwise indicate the types of alerts he is interested in receiving.
                 Once a player has checked out a mobile gaming device or otherwise
                obtained a mobile gaming device, the player's alert selections may be
                 communicated to the mobile gaming device. The mobile gaming
                 device may thereupon only display alerts for which the player has
25              indicated interest.
                In various embodiments, a player may receive an alert. The player
                may then indicate whether he would like to continue receiving alerts
                of the same type or category. For example, an alert may be presented
30              to a player in a pop-up window. The player may check a box in the
                pop-up window indicating that he would no longer like to receive
                 alerts of the type just received.
                                               98

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
            4.13.4. A player may be unable to deactivate alertsfollowing certain events
                 (e.g., a player cannot change the fact that the progressive win gives
                 him an alert). In various embodiments, a player has the option of
                 suppressing certain alerts. For example, a player may indicate that he
 5               wound not like to see alerts about upcoming keno drawings.
                 Accordingly, the mobile gaming device of the player may cease
                 presenting to the player alerts about keno drawings. In various
                 embodiments, a player does not have the option of suppressing alerts.
                 For example, alerts may be presented by the mobile gaming device of
10               a player even if the player does not wish to receive such alerts, and
                 even if the player has indicated that he does not wish to receive such
                 alerts. In various embodiments, a player is prevented from ignoring
                 alerts or other promotions by having to react in some way to the
                 promotions. For example, when a promotion is presented to a player,
15               the player may be required to press a button, touch an area of the
                 screen, answer a question about the promotion, or otherwise respond
                 to the promotion. If the player does not respond, the player may be
                 prevented from playing further games on his mobile gaming device.
                 For example, an image associated with a promotion may occupy the
20               entire screen area of a mobile gaming device until the player reacts to
                 the promotion. Only then may the promotion disappear and allow the
                 player to view graphics associated with a game.
            4.13.5. Alerts when friends or family or group members get a good result.
                 In various embodiments, a player may receive alerts or messages
25               when one of a group of people achieves a particular outcome. The
                 group of people may include people with some relation to the player.
                 For example, the group of people may consist of friends, family, work
                 colleagues, members of the same club, members of the same religious
                 institution, classmates, fraternity brothers, and so on. A player may
30               indicate to the casino server who is in his group. For example, when
                 first checking out a mobile gaming device from the casino, a player
                 may provide the names of his fellow group members. In various
                                               99

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
                  embodiments, when one member of a group indicates the names or
                 identifiers of other members of the group, the two or more members
                 of the group (e.g., all members of the group) may receive messages or
                  alerts relating to other members of the group. For example, when one
 5               member of the group receives a high-paying outcome, all other
                 members of the group may receive alerts. In various embodiments,
                  alerts may be sent to a player when a member of his group who is not
                 using a mobile gaming device achieves a significant or noteworthy
                 outcome. For example, if a fellow group member at a stationary slot
10               machine wins a $1000 payout, then a player may receive an alert
                  saying, "Your friend just won $1000!!".
            4.13.6. Reserving poker tables. Getting alertsfor poker tables. Reserve a
                 place in a buffet line. Reserve a taxi.
                4.13.6.1.     Tables. In various embodiments, a player may use a mobile
15                      gaming device to reserve a spot at a gaming table. Gaming
                        tables may include poker tables, blackjack tables, or other tables.
                        To reserve a spot at a table, a player may communicate with the
                        casino server. For example, the player may use his mobile
                        gaming device to access a scheduling system of the casino
20                      server. The scheduling system may include a Web page
                        interface, or other type of interface. The scheduling system may
                        list gaming tables within the casino. For example, the scheduling
                        system may list a set of poker tables, each poker table described
                        by the game and the betting limits at the table. The scheduling
25                      system may further list names, initials, or other identifiers for
                        players waiting to play at such tables. When visiting the
                        scheduling system, a player may add his name to one or more
                        lists of players waiting to play at tables. For example, a player
                        may add his name to a list of players waiting to play a game of
30                      Texas Hold'em with betting limits of $2 and $4 (e.g., 2-4 Texas
                        Hold'em). Once a player's name is added to a list of players
                        waiting for a game, the player may be eligible to sit for the game
                                                100

 WO 2008/070787                                                    PCT/US2007/086661
                once all players ahead of him in the list have either been seated
                or declined to participate in the game. For example, as seats in a
                game (e.g., a game of Blackjack; e.g., a game of poker) open up,
                the player at the top of a list of players waiting to play in that
 5              game may be offered a seat at the game. The player at the top of
                the list may then be removed from the list, leaving the previously
                second player now at the top of the list.
                In various embodiments, a player may use a mobile gaming
10              device to access a scheduling system for a game. The scheduling
                system may allow a player to secure a place in line for a table
                game, for a slot machine game, or for any other game. The
                scheduling system may allow a player to reserve a spot in line for
                any other event or activity for which space or availability may be
15              limited.
                In various embodiments, a player may use a mobile gaming
                device to view available games or tables in a casino. For
                example, a map of a casino may visually indicate gaming tables,
20              including which tables have openings for players. If there is
                currently an opening, a player may use his mobile gaming device
                to reserve the opening for himself. For example, a player may
                touch an area on a diagram of a casino floor. The area may be a
                representation of a poker table. Having touched the area, the
25              mobile gaming device may ask the player whether he would like
                to reserve a spot at the table. The player may indicate
                affirmation by touching a button on the screen of his mobile
                gaming device, such as by touching a button labeled "yes". The
                mobile gaming device may inform the player of any time limits
30              associated with claiming the spot. For example, the mobile
                gaming device may inform the player that the player has 10
                minutes in which to claim the spot before the spot will be given
                                        101

 WO 2008/070787                                                    PCT/US2007/086661
                to someone else. In various embodiments, when a player
                reserves a spot at a gaming table, the player may indicate the
                amount for which he would like to buy in at the gaming table.
                The player may indicate that amount of cash he would initially
 5              like to convert into gaming chips prior to starting play at the
                gaming table. The player may indicate the amount of gaming
                chips with which he would like to begin play at the gaming table.
                After the player has indicated a number of chips with which he
                would like to begin, a casino representative may arrange to have
10              the chips placed at the gaming table pending the arrival of the
                player. Thus, when the player arrives at the gaming table, chips
                may have been counted out for the player already.
                In various embodiments, a player may wish to reserve a seat at a
15              gaming table. However, the gaming table may currently be in
                full use. The player may accordingly interact with a scheduling
                system in order to place himself in line for a seat at the table. In
                various embodiments, the casino (e.g., the casino server) may
                indicate to the player an estimate of the amount of time it will
20              take before a seat opens up for the player at the gaming table.
                For example, the casino server may transmit to the player's
                mobile gaming device an estimate that the wait will be one hour.
                The waiting time may then be displayed for the player on the
                screen of the player's mobile gaming device. The casino server
25              may use various algorithms to estimate a waiting time. The
                casino server may have historical data indicating the rate at
                which spots open up at a particular type of game, at particular
                betting limits, at particular times of day, and so on. Using such
                data, and using data about the number of people ahead of a
30              player for a table, the casino server may estimate how long it will
                take for a player to get a seat at a table. For example, the
                estimated time before a player will be seated at a table may be
                                         102

 WO 2008/070787                                                   PCT/US2007/086661
                equal to the average time it takes a seat to vacate multiplied by
                one plus the number of people who are ahead of the player in
                line for a seat.
 5              In various embodiments, the casino may inform the player of any
                future gaming tables that will open up. For example, the casino
                may inform the player that a new poker table will be opening up
                in half an hour. The player may, accordingly, place himself on a
                wait list for the new table.
10
                In various embodiments, a player may play a game on a mobile
                gaming device. The mobile gaming device, or another device,
                may subsequently offer the player an opportunity to play the
                same game at a stationary gaming device and/or at a physical
15              gaming table. For example, it may be assumed that if a player
                has played a game for a period of time on a mobile gaming
                device, the player might also be interested in playing the same
                game at a stationary device and/or at a gaming table. In various
                embodiments, a player may play a game of poker on a mobile
20              gaming device. For example, the player may play a game of
                Texas Hold'em. The mobile gaming device may then display a
                message asking the player whether or not the player would like
                to sit down at a poker table to play a game of poker with a live
                dealer, with physical cards, and with live opponents. The player
25              may indicate that he is interested. The player's indication of
                interest may be transmitted to the casino server. The casino
                server may then send instructions, e.g., to a casino representative,
                to have a spot at the table reserved for the player. In various
                embodiments, a player may be engaged in a slot machine game
30              on his mobile gaming device, e.g., the player may play a game
                with simulated slot machine reels on the display of the mobile
                gaming device. An offer may then be presented to the player to
                                        103

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
                       play the same game on a stationary slot machine. The player
                       may accept the offer. The slot machine may be subsequently
                       reserved for the player. In various embodiments, when a player
                       plays a particular type of game on a mobile gaming device, and
 5                     when a spot or space opens up for a similar game at a stationary
                       gaming device or at a gaming table, the spot or space may be
                       offered to the player of the mobile gaming device.
            4.13.7. Win a spot at a poker table or blackjack table while playing. In
                 various embodiments, a player who is waiting for a spot at a gaming
10               table, at a game, or in some other activity must play continuously in
                 order to maintain his spot in line. Continuous play may, in various
                 embodiments, be defined differently. For example, continuous play
                 may mean that a player must play one game at least every thirty
                 seconds. As another example, continuous play may mean that a
15               player must make at least $3 in wagers every minute. In various
                 embodiments, a player who does not maintain continuous play may
                 fall back in a line. For example, for every two minute gap in the play
                 of a player, the player may fall back one place in line. If the player
                 was fifth in line for a spot at a gaming table, the player may fall back
20               to sixth in line for a spot at the gaming table.
                 In various embodiments, a player may win a place in line while
                 playing a game. For example, a player may play a game on a mobile
                 gaming device. The player may win an outcome which advances him
25               one place in line for a spot at a gaming table. A player may also fall
                 back in line based on certain outcomes. For example, a player waiting
                 for a spot at a gaming table may achieve a "fall back" outcome when
                 playing another game on his mobile gaming device. The player's
                 place in line may accordingly fall back. In some embodiments,
30               players may compete for a spot when the spot opens up. For example,
                 five players may be waiting for a spot at a poker table. When a spot at
                 the table opens up, each of the waiting players may play a game on his
                                                104

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
                 or her respective mobile gaming device. The player with the best
                 performance in the game may get the open spot at the gaming table.
                 For example, the player who wins the most money in the game may
                 get the spot at the gaming table.
 5          4.13.8. The act ofplaying as an entry into any contest or lottery. In various
                 embodiments, play of a game may make a player eligible for entry
                 into a contest or lottery. For example, for each game played on a
                 mobile gaming device, a player may receive an entry into a raffle
                 drawing for a new car. The car may be raffled off to a player who has
10               played a mobile gaming device within a sponsoring casino. In various
                 embodiments, a player must meet a minimum threshold of play before
                 receiving entry into a contest or lottery. For example, a player must
                 play at least one hundred games to receive entry.      For example, a
                 player must wager at least $250 in order to receive entry. In various
15               embodiments, a player may receive a number of entries to a contest or
                 lottery which is proportional to an amount the player has wagered.
                 For example, a player may receive entries into a drawing for show
                 tickets, where the number of entries is proportional to an amount
                 wagered by the player. In various embodiments, play of a mobile
20               gaming device may confer to a player entry into a state lottery, inter
                 state lottery, national lottery, and so on. In various embodiments, play
                 of a mobile gaming device may confer to a player entry into a contest
                 or lottery which is in addition to the game played on the mobile
                 gaming device. In various embodiments, play of a mobile gaming
25               device may confer to a player entry into a contest or lottery which is
                 independent from the game played on the mobile gaming device.
            4.13.9. Play poker againstother people waitingfor an actual spot at the
                 tables. In various embodiments, a player may use a mobile gaming
                 device to simulate play of a table game. In various embodiments, a
30               player with a mobile gaming device may simulate play of a table
                 game with or against other players who have mobile gaming devices.
                 For example, several players with mobile gaming devices may
                                                105

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
                compete against one another in a game of poker. As another example,
                several players with mobile gaming devices may participate in a game
                of blackjack using a common dealer and a common deck of cards,
                e.g., just as the players would if they were at a physical blackjack
 5              table. In various embodiments, a player may ask to be seated at a
                table or at a game. For example, a player may ask to be seated for a
                poker game. The player may be informed that there are no seats
                available for the poker game. However, the player may be offered the
                opportunity to play a game using a mobile gaming device. The player
10              may be offered the opportunity to play the same version of poker as
                the one for which he had asked to be seated. The player may,
                accordingly, receive the mobile gaming device and begin play of the
                game of poker. When a seat becomes available at the physical game
                of poker, the mobile gaming device of the player may alert the player
15              that the seat has become available. For example, a casino
                representative may key a message for the player into a terminal. The
                message may be forwarded (e.g., via the casino server) to the mobile
                gaming device of the player. The player may thereby be informed that
                a spot for him at the physical poker table is now available. In various
20              embodiments, a player who is waiting for a seat at a physical gaming
                table may compete with a mobile gaming device against other players
                with mobile gaming devices. Players waiting for the same table may
                compete against one another. For example, five players waiting for
                seats at a poker table with limits of $4 and $8 may compete in a poker
25              game on their respective mobile gaming devices. The players may
                compete on their mobile gaming devices in a game with limits of $4
                and $8. Thus, in various embodiments, players waiting to play at a
                physical gaming table which features a particular game may use
                mobile gaming device to play the same or a similar game. In various
30              embodiments, a player who is waiting for a spot at a table may use a
                mobile gaming device to play a game with or against other players
                who are physically seated at the table. Thus, a player with a mobile
                                             106

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
                   gaming device may play an electronic version of a game that is being
                   played with real cards, dice, or other playing tokens at a physical
                   gaming table.
    5. Indicationsthat there is a promotion. Various signals may be used to get a
 5      player's attention so as to inform the player that there is a promotion for him to
        peruse. In various embodiments, such signals may be generated if it is unclear
        whether a player would be currently looking at his mobile gaming device. For
        example, if the player has been engaged in a game in the past five seconds, it
        may be assumed that the player is currently viewing his mobile gaming device.
10      Thus, a signal of a promotion may not be sent. However, if the player has not
        been engaged in a game in the last five seconds, a signal may be generated to
        indicate that a promotion is being presented.
        5.1. Vibration. In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may vibrate
             to indicate that there is a promotion for the player. The vibrations may be
15           effective if the mobile gaming device is, for example, in physical contact
             with the player, such as being in the player's pocket. In various
             embodiments, vibrations associated with a promotion may be distinct from
             vibrations associated with a phone call, or an email. For example, the
             mobile gaming device may vibrate at one frequency to signal an incoming
20           call, and at another frequency to signal that a promotion is being presented.
        5.2. Beeping. In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may beep to
             signal that a promotion is or is about to be presented. In various
             embodiments, a beep that signals the presentation of a promotion may be
             distinct from a beep that signals some other event, such as an email.
25      5.3. Ringing. In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may ring to
             signal the presentation of a promotion. The ring associated with a
             promotion may be distinct from rings signaling other events, such as a
             phone call.
    6. Playerresponds to an advertisement, e.g., the player shows interest. In various
30          embodiments, a player may respond to a promotion. The player may
            respond in such a way as to indicate interest in the product, service, event,
            etc. being promoted. The player may express interest in buying the
                                               107

  WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             product or service or in finding out more information about the product or
             service, for example. The player may respond in a number of ways.
             During, or following a promotion, the player may have the opportunity to
             press or click on a button labeled "learn more" "get more information" or
 5           the like. Pressing such a button, e.g., on his mobile gaming device, may
             send a signal to the casino server. The casino server may then forward
             more information about the product, service, event, etc. to the player. For
             example, the casino may transmit to the player a text message describing
             further details about a product. As another example, the casino may
10           transmit to the player more images of the product or service in which the
             player has expressed interest. The casino server may have further
             information related to a promotion stored at the casino server. For
             example, information about the subject of a promotion may be stored in a
             casino database in associated with the promotion itself. The casino server
15           may receive further information relating to a promotion when a marketer
             submits a promotion. When submitting a promotion, a marketer may
             provide additional information. Additional information may include: (a)
             further description of the product, service, event, or other subject of the
             promotion; (b) information about where to buy the product or service being
20           promoted; (c) information about the company or marketer making the
             promotion; (d) safety information; (e) information about related products or
             services; (f) information about other products being sold by the same
             company; (g) information about other products made by the same
             manufacturer; (h) pricing information for the product or service; (i)
25           shipping information for the product (e.g., to what states does the product
             ship; e.g., how much does shipping cost); (j)information about availability
             of the product; (k) information about where the product can be purchased;
             (1) information about when the product or service may be purchased; (m)
             reviews for the product or service; and any other information pertaining to
30           the promotion or to the product, service, event, etc. being promoted.
         6.1. More information about the product mailed or emailed to the player.
              When a player expresses interest in the subject of a promotion, further
                                               108

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
             information about the subject of the promotion may be sent to the player.
             The information may be sent via electronic mail. If the information is sent
             via electronic mail, the player may have a chance to look at the
             information later when he is not in the midst of a gaming session. The
 5           casino server may have the player's email address on file. For example,
             the casino may have collected the player's email address (and other
             contact information and other information about the player) when the
             player signed up for a player tracking card, when the player checked out
             his mobile gaming device, when the player registered at the casino hotel,
10           etc. If the casino does not have contact information for the player, the
             player may enter such information at the time he expresses interest in a
             promotion. In various embodiments, additional information pertaining to
             promotion may be mailed to a player at a postal address. The postal
             address may be on file with the casino, or may be provided by the player
15           when requesting additional information on a promotion.
        6.2. More information shown to the player on the mobile device. In various
             embodiments, if a player expresses interest in the subject of a promotion,
             more information about the promotion may be presented to the player on
             his mobile gaming device. More information may be shown to the player
20           in the form of text, audio, video, still images, cartoons, or in any other
             presentation format. The additional information may have been
             previously received by the casino from the marketer, and stored with the
             casino.   In various embodiments, when a player expresses interest in the
             subject of a promotion, the casino may transmit to the marketer an
25           indication that the player has expressed interest. The marketer may then
             send information to the player. The marketer may send information
             directly to e.g., an email address or postal address of the player. In various
             embodiments, the marketer may transmit information about the subject of
             a presentation to the casino. The casino may then transmit the information
30           to the mobile gaming device of the player. Using his mobile gaming
             device, a player may repeatedly ask for further information about the
             subject of a promotion. As the player asks for more information, more
                                               109

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             information may be transmitted to the player's mobile gaming device and
             presented to the player from the mobile gaming device.
             In various embodiments, a player may request more information about the
 5           subject of a promotion. However, in order to provide additional
             information, a marketer may have to pay the casino. The marketer may
             have to pay the casino in order to compensate the casino for space taken up
             on the mobile gaming device of the casino with the additional information
             and/or for potentially diverting the attention of the player away from the
10           player's gaming session. Thus, in various embodiments, when the player
             requests more information, a marketer must first confirm that it wishes to
             provide the additional information and must confirm that it is willing to
             pay to provide such additional information.
15           In various embodiments, when a player expresses interest in the subject of
             a promotion, additional information may be presented for the player using
             the same slots that are used for original promotions. For example, a
             promotion may be an advertisement for a car. The promotion may consist
             of a still image of the car which replaces a symbol on the reels of a slot
20           machine. A player may express interest in the car. Thus, subsequently,
             additionally images of the car may appear as replacement symbols. These
             additional images may show the car from other angles, may show the
             interior of the car, may show the car in different colors and styles, and may
             show any other depiction of the car. In various embodiments, further
25           information provided about a promotion may take the form of follow-on or
             add-on promotions.
        6.3. More information shown to the player on a nearby slot machine. In
             various embodiments, additional information related to a promotion may
             be presented to a player using a nearby gaming device. The nearby
30           gaming device may provide a large screen area on which to display
             promotions. Further the gaming device may not be in use. Therefore, the
             entire screen area may be available to display promotions. Further, the
                                               110

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
             nearby gaming device may be able to display promotions for a player even
             while the player continues to play at his mobile gaming device.
             In various embodiments, additional information shown to a player may be
 5           shown on a stationary gaming device. However, the player may be on the
             move while additional information is being shown. For example, the
             player may be walking. Therefore, in various embodiments, information
             shown to the player may move so as to follow the player. For example, a
             player may walk alongside a row of slot machines. When the player is in
10           front of a first slot machine, the first slot machine may display a
             promotional message. As the player walks, he may become more near to a
             second slot machine and less near to the first slot machine. Accordingly,
             the second slot machine may now display the same promotional message.
             The message may disappear from the first slot machine. Accordingly, the
15           message may follow the player. Information shown to the player may be
             shown on the nearest available stationary gaming device to the player at
             any given time. An available gaming device may include a gaming device
             that is not in use, a gaming device that has capabilities to display
             information of the type necessary, and so on. In various embodiments,
20           information shown to the player may be displayed on the nearest available
             stationary gaming device to the player that is also facing in the direction of
             the player. In various embodiments, a display of information may transfer
             from one gaming device to another according to which gaming devices are
             adjacent to one another. For example, a player may walk with two gaming
25           devices to his left. As he walks, a display may move from a first of the
             gaming devices to a second of the gaming devices. In the meantime, the
             player may walk near to a gaming device that is on his right. However, the
             display of information may be maintained on the gaming devices to the
             player's left so as to provide a more continuous viewing experience and so
30           as to avoid making the player turn his head from left to right. The
             location of the player may be tracked in various ways so that information
             about promotions may be displayed near to the player. For example, the
                                               111

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             mobile gaming device of the player may communicate its location to the
             casino server. The casino server may thereby deduce the location of the
             player, assuming the player is currently holding the mobile gaming device.
 5           In various embodiments, more information related to a promotion may be
             shown to a player on a stationary gaming device only if the player plays at
             the gaming device. For example, additional information may be shown to
             the player only if the player makes bets in at least three games every
             minute.
10
             In various embodiments, a player may be presented with additional
             information related to a promotion, the additional information presented at
             a stationary gaming device. After the additional information has been
             presented to the player, the player may be encouraged to begin play at the
15           stationary gaming device. For example, the stationary gaming device may
             display a message for the player saying, "Hey, while you're here, how
             would you like to play a few games." The stationary gaming device may
             even offer the player an incentive to play at the stationary gaming device.
             For example, the stationary gaming device may present a message to the
20           player saying that if the player makes 8 spins at the stationary gaming
             device, then the last two spins will be free.
             In various embodiments, additional information related to a promotion
             may be presented, on a stationary gaming device to a first player with a
25           mobile gaming device. The stationary gaming device may be chosen from
             among several stationary gaming devices, e.g., from stationary gaming
             devices that are all within a predetermined distance of the first player.
             Additionally, the stationary gaming device may chosen so as to be near to
             a second player. The second player may be a player who is at an adjacent
30           stationary gaming device to the one being used to present the additional
             information about the promotion.
                                               112

  WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
         6.4. Casino attendant brings more information to show the player. In various
              embodiments, a casino attendant may bring to a player of a mobile gaming
              device additional information about the promotion. For example, the
              player may use his mobile gaming device to request additional
 5            information. The casino server may then send a page or email notification
              to a casino representative to go find the player. The casino server may
              indicate to the casino representative the location of the player. For
              example, the casino server may indicate that the player is near to a
              stationary gaming device number 924, or that the player is near to the east
10            entrance. The casino representative may, in any event, find the player.
              The casino representative may bring additional information related to the
              promotion. The additional information may include brochures, coupons,
              paper advertisements, gift certificates, or any other information. The
              additional information may include storage media, such as universal serial
15            bus drives, CDs, DVDs, and so on. In various embodiments, the casino
              attendant may bring to the player a sample of the product. For example, if
              the promotion is for a new lipstick, the casino representative may bring to
              the player a sample of the lipstick.
         6.5. Player information sent to the marketer. In various embodiments, player
20            information may be sent to a marketer. The player information may be
              sent to the marketer who originated the promotion sent to the player. The
              player's contact information may be forwarded to the marketer so that the
              marketer may later contact the player to provide the player with more
              information about the product.
25   7. Showing marketers availablemarketing opportunities (e.g., who is playing
         now). In various embodiments, the casino server may show to potential
         marketers a current audience that is available for viewing promotions. The
         current audience may include players currently gaming on mobile gaming
         device, players in possession of mobile gaming devices, players with money
30       remaining with which to play on mobile gaming devices, people within
         viewing range of mobile gaming devices (e.g., people who might be able to see
         a promotion shown on a mobile gaming device), people within hearing range of
                                                113

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
        an mobile gaming device, and so on. A potential audience may include people
        within a limited geographic region. For example, a marketer with retail stores
        in Nevada might only be interested in sending promotions to people currently
        in Nevada. A potential audience may include only people within a certain age
 5      range. For example, a casino server may show to a marketer only people
        between the ages of 18 and 35, as such people may be the marketer's main
        target audience. In various embodiments, a potential audience may include
        only people with certain demographic characteristics, such as only married
        people, such as only French speakers, such as only people with incomes over
10      $150,000, and so on. A potential audience may be presented to a marketer in
        the form of one or more aggregate statistics. For example, a marketer may be
        told that there are currently 3500 people playing mobile gaming device who are
        between 18 and 25 years old.
15      In various embodiments, a potential marketer may be shown available
        advertising mediums. For example, a marketer may be told that there are
        currently 1258 places where their product logo can be used as a symbol on reel.
        As another example, a marketer may be told that there are currently 100 slots
        open where promotions will be inserted between games played on mobile
20      gaming devices. As will be appreciated, any statistic describing available slots
        or media for promotions may be presented to a marketer.
        In various embodiments, a marketer may be shown available slots for
        promotions for a particular target audience. For example, a marketer may be
25      told that there 200 mobile gaming devices in which the marketer's promotion
        may be used in background graphics and where the mobile gaming devices are
        being played by players of the marketer's target audience.
        7.1. The number of active handhelds nationwide is tracked. In various
30           embodiments, the casino server may track the number of mobile gaming
             device that are currently in use across a particular location or geographic
             region. The casino server, for example, may track the number of mobile
                                              114

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
             gaming device active within a room, within a casino, within a
             neighborhood (e.g., the Las Vegas strip), within casinos of the same
             management, within a state, or within an entire country. Thus, in various
             embodiments, a casino server may track the number of mobile gaming
 5           devices in use nationwide. A statistic describing the number of active
             mobile gaming devices may be presented to a marketer.
            7.1.1.   How many handhelds of a particulardemographic. In various
                   embodiments, the casino server may track the number of mobile
                   gaming devices that are being used by players of a particular
10                 demographic. For example, the casino server may count 584 people
                   that are using mobile gaming device and who are between the ages of
                   60 and 65. As another example, the casino server may count 2690
                   people that are using mobile gaming devices and who are also gun
                   owners.
15          7.1.2.   How many handheldsplaying a particulardenomination. In
                   various embodiments, a casino server may track the number of mobile
                   gaming devices on which players are playing games of a certain
                   denomination. For example, the casino server may track the number
                   of mobile gaming devices on which players are playing games with
20                 required wagers of $1.
                   In various embodiments, the casino server may track the number of
                   mobile gaming devices on which a particular type of game is being
                   played. For example, the casino server may track the number of
25                 mobile gaming devices on which Triple Play Video Poker is being
                   played. In various embodiments, the casino server may track the
                   number of mobile gaming devices on which games by a certain game
                   developer are being played.
30                 In various embodiments, any group that is tracked may have its
                   playing characteristics represented by one or more statistics. Such
                                               115

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
                  statistics may be presented to a marketer. Based on such statistics, a
                  marketer may decide whether or not to promote to the group.
        7.2. Space is made instantly available. In various embodiments, slots, space,
             or media for promotions may be made available to marketers in a rapid,
 5           instant, or real-time basis. For example, a marketer might make a decision
             to have a promotion presented one minute before it is actually presented.
             The central server may, for example, list available slots for promotions
             into the future. A marketer may browse such available slots. The
             marketer might select one or more slots, even if such slots are to occur
10           within minutes or less. The promotion may then occur on schedule. If a
             marketer's promotion is not already stored with the casino server (e.g., if
             image and audio data is not already stored with the casino server), the
             marketer may be required to upload a promotion to the casino server
             before it can be presented. Once uploaded, a promotion may be
15           transmitted from a casino server to one or more mobile gaming devices for
             presentation.
        7.3. We allow advertisersto immediately distributeads on the fly to all, or to
             all that meet certain criteria. Immediate means display this and now. In
             various embodiments, a marketer may specify one or more criteria. The
20           criteria may include criteria defining a target audience, such as
             demographic criteria. The criteria may also define games being played,
             outcomes achieved, and so on. The criteria may also define current
             locations of the target audience. For example, the criteria defined by a
             marketer may specify that the target audience includes only people within
25           the state of Mississippi. Once a marketer has specified a target audience,
             or criteria that a member of the target audience must meet, promotions
             from the marketer may be presented to the target audience. Promotions
             may be presented to all of the target audience, or to some fraction of the
             target audience. For example, 1000 people may currently satisfy criteria
30           defined by the marketer. The promotion of the marketer may, accordingly,
             be presented to all 1000 people meeting the criteria. In some
             embodiments, however, the marketer may not wish to pay to reach the
                                               116

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             entire target audience. Instead, for example, the marketer may decide to
             pay to reach only a fraction of the target audience, such as one third of the
             target audience. Once a marketer has defined a target audience for a
             promotion, the promotion may be presented to members of the target
 5           audience substantially immediately. Alternatively, the promotion may be
             presented to members of the target audience at a later time, such as at a
             time desired by the marketer.
        7.4. Advertisers get to see a list of who is located near to the product, e.g., to a
             coke store. In various embodiments, a marketer may view data indicative
10           of how many players of mobile gaming devices are near to the product of
             the marketer. For example, a marketer may wish to see a count of the
             number of players of mobile gaming devices who are near to a fast food
             restaurant which the marketer represents. The marketer may then decide
             whether to have a promotion presented to some or all of such players.
15      7.5. Mechanism to allow advertisers tofind out what's availableand to insert
             bids. The advertiserhas a mechanism to acquirean advertisingblock. An
             advertiserhas a mechanism to place an ad in the black. In various
             embodiments, a marketer may view a list or other description of available
             slots or media in which promotions may be inserted. The list may include
20           a list of slots by time of day, by game, by game denomination, by
             demographic of the player, and so on. For example, a listing of a slot may
             indicate that there is a 5-second slot open for 500 gamers between the ages
             of 50 and 55. The marketer may have the opportunity to purchase that slot
             and to have his promotion presented during that slot. Thus, the marketer
25           may have his promotion presented to 500 gamers. The marketer may be
             able to place a bid for that slot. A marketer who places the highest bid
             may have the opportunity to have a promotion placed in a slot. In various
             embodiments, a marketer may be able to have a promotion presented to a
             first number of gamers. The marketer may submit the high bid to have a
30           promotion presented to a second number of gamers, where the second
             number of gamers is less than the first number of gamers. For example,
             500 gamers may be currently playing mobile gaming devices. A marketer
                                                117

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             may bid to have his promotion presented to 200 of the gamers. If the
             marketer has submitted the high bid, the marketer may succeed in having
             his promotion presented to the 200 gamers. The marketer who has
             submitted the next highest bid may have the opportunity to have his
 5           promotion presented to gamers from among the remaining group of
             gamers. Thus, in various embodiments, a marketer may submit a bid
             where the bid includes not only a time of day, a game, a length of a
             promotion, a size of a promotion, etc., but also a number of players to
             which the promotion will be presented.
10
             In various embodiments, a marketer may purchase a slot for a promotion
             or submit bids to have a promotion placed using a Web site of the casino
             server. The casino server Web site may list available slots, highest bids,
             any restrictions on which types of promotions may be shown, and so on.
15           The marketer may use the Web site to submit bids, to make purchases, to
             make payment (e.g., by submitting a credit card number), to submit the
             actual promotion (e.g., image data; e.g., video data; e.g., audio data), and
             so on. A marketer may submit bids and other information in many other
             ways, as will be appreciated. For example, a marketer may submit bids via
20           phone, fax, email, postal mail, and so on.
    8. Pricingschemesfor advertisers. In various embodiments, the casino may
        charge marketers a variable price for presenting the marketers' promotions.
        The price charged may depend on a number of factors.
        8.1. By real-estate space. The price of a promotion may depend on the amount
25           of physical space taken up by the promotion. The physical space taken up
             may include space taken up on a display screen. For example, a first
             promotion that takes up 1 square inch may cost 5 cents per viewer, while a
             second promotion that takes up 4 square inches may cost 15 cents per
             viewer. Physical space may be measured in a number of ways. Physical
30           space may be measured in square inches, square centimeters, in pixels, and
             in portions or percentages of total screen space (e.g., a promotion may take
             up 25% of the space of a display screen; e.g., a promotion may take up 2
                                              118

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
             quadrants of a display screen). Physical space may be measured in terms
             of other items. For example, physical space may be measured in terms of
             symbols. Thus, for example, a promotion may take up the space of two
             symbols. In various embodiments, the price of a promotion increases
 5           monotonically with the amount of space taken up by the promotion, all
             else being equal. A promotion may take up space in the sense that images
             associated with the promotion take up space. For example, the space taken
             up by a promotion may be the space taken up by images or videos
             associated with the promotion.
10      8.2. By time shown. In various embodiments, the price of a promotion may
             depend on the amount of time taken up by the promotion. For example, a
             promotion may be presented for 1 second, five seconds, or for thirty
             seconds. For example, an image associated with a promotion may be
             displayed for 1 second, five seconds, or for thirty seconds. A promotion
15           which is presented for a longer period of time may cost more money for a
             marketer.
        8.3. By which customers got to see the ad. In various embodiments, the price
             of a promotion may depend on the target audience for the promotion. The
             price of a promotion may increase as the income level of the target
20           audience increases. The price of a promotion may increase as the average
             bet amount of the target audience increases. The price of a promotion may
             increase as the skill level of the target audience increases. The price of a
             promotion may increase as the age of the target audience decreases. The
             price of a promotion may be higher for a target audience of city dwellers
25           versus suburban dwellers. In various embodiments, a target audience may
             include a set of players who have achieved similar results. For example, a
             target audience may include all players who have won money in the last
             hour. In various embodiments, the price of a promotion may be higher for
             a target audience of players who have won money in the last hour than for
30           a target audience of players who have not won money in the last hour. In
             various embodiments, a marketer may pay more to reach people who have
             had better luck (e.g., in the form of winning outcomes) than to reach
                                                119

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             people who have had worse luck (e.g., in the form of losing outcomes). In
             various embodiments, the price of a promotion to jackpot winners may be
             higher than the price of a promotion to people who have not won jackpots,
             or to people who have not just won jackpots.
 5      8.4. Advertisers are charged more for customers with more money. In various
             embodiments, the price of a promotion may depend on the amount of
             money that the viewing audience has. A promotion that is shown to a
             player with a credit balance of $900 may cost the marketer more than a
             promotion that is shown to a player with a credit balance of $40. A
10           promotion that is shown to a player with income of $200,000 may cost the
             marketer more than does a promotion that is shown to a player with an
             income of $50,000. A promotion that is shown to a player with a hotel
             room costing $300 per night may cost the marketer more than does a
             promotion that is shown to a player with a hotel room costing $50 per
15           night.
        8.5. Advertisers are charged more for customers with particular
             demographics. In various embodiments, the price of a promotion may
             depend on one or more demographics of the target audience. For example,
             a marketer may have to pay more to show a promotion to a player with one
20           child than to a player with two children.
        8.6. There can be a straightprice. In various embodiments, the price of a
             promotion with certain characteristics (e.g., to be presented to a particular
             target audience, for a particular period of time, etc.) may be fixed. That is,
             the price may be posted and may not be subject to change or negotiation.
25           The price may be quoted in various ways. For example, the price of a
             promotion may be quoted on a per-player basis (e.g., the price of a
             promotion is 5 cents per player to which it is shown). The price of a
             promotion may be quoted on the basis of a block of players who are to
             view the promotion. For example, the price of a promotion may be quoted
30           as the price to show a promotion to 500 people.
        8.7. There can be a biddingprocess. If a marketer is the winning bidder, the
             marketer gets the ad space. In various embodiments, marketers may bid
                                               120

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
             against one another for the opportunity to present a promotion. An
             opportunity to present a promotion may include an opportunity to present a
             promotion under a particular set of circumstances. The circumstances for
             presenting a promotion may include one or more of the following: (a) a
 5           time of day during which the promotion will be presented; (b) a player to
             whom the promotion will be presented; (c) a set of players to whom the
             promotion will be presented; (d) a game with which a promotion will be
             presented (e.g., a promotion will be presented on the face of a card in a
             game of video poker); (e) an amount of time for which the promotion may
10           be presented; (f) an amount of space that will be taken up by a promotion;
             (g) a type or model of mobile gaming device on which the promotion will
             be presented (e.g., the promotion may be presented on a model of mobile
             gaming device with a particular large and bright screen); (h) a location in
             which a promotion will be presented (e.g., a promotion may be presented
15           only to players who are in a particular restaurant; e.g., a promotion may be
             presented only to players who are within 20 feet of a particular jewelry
             store; e.g., a promotion may be presented only to players who are by the
             pool); and any other circumstances. As will be appreciated, the
             circumstances surrounding the presentation of a promotion may influence
20           the desirability of presenting the promotion, and may thus influence the
             amount that a marketer might be willing to pay to present the promotion.
             In various embodiments, marketers may bid for the opportunity to present
             a promotion under a particular set of circumstances. For example, the
25           casino may post a set of circumstances. The posting may allow a marketer
             to present a 30-second promotion on 4 square inches of screen space,
             sometime between 2:30pm and 2:35pm on Sunday, to 300 female players
             aged 35-55. In other words, the winning marketer's promotion would be
             shown to 300 different players as described, with each promotion shown to
30           a player on her respective mobile gaming device.
                                               121

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
             When the opportunity is posted, marketers may have the opportunity to bid
             so as to present a promotion under the posted circumstances. Marketers
             may become aware of the posting by checking a web page of the casino
             server. For example, marketers may register with the casino server and
 5           may thereby receive access to a Web site where opportunities to present
             promotions are presented. In various embodiments, marketers may
             become aware of the opportunity through an email or other alert sent by
             the casino. For example, anytime the casino posts an opportunity for
             presenting promotions, the casino may alert marketers on its mailing list of
10           the opportunity.
             A marketer may enter, in various ways, a bid for an opportunity to present
             a promotion. In various embodiments, a marketer may key in a price he
             would be willing to pay. The marketer may key his bid into a Web page
15           run by the casino server. In various embodiments, a marketer may phone a
             casino representative to convey his bid. In various embodiments, a
             marketer may submit a bidding strategy to the casino. For example, the
             bidding strategy may dictate that the marketer will always place a bid that
             is $10 higher than any competing bid, until the bidding level reaches $300.
20           Accordingly, the casino may enter bids for the marketer automatically in
             keeping with the marketer's bidding strategy.
             In various embodiments, a marketer may bid for only a portion of the
             promotional opportunities being offered. For example, the casino may
25           post an opportunity to display a still image to 300 people from the
             Midwest between 3:00pm and 3:05pm. A marketer may wish to have a
             promotion presented to Midwesterners between 3:00pm and 3:05pm.
             However, the marketer may wish to promote to only 100 people.
             Accordingly, the marketer may bid for the opportunity to present a
30           promotion to 100 of the 300 people from the Midwest. Another marketer
             may wish to present to only 200 people from the Midwest between 3:00pm
             and 3:05pm. Therefore, it is possible that both the first marketer and the
                                              122

 WO 2008/070787                                                            PCT/US2007/086661
             second marketer get their wishes. In various embodiments, all winning
             bidders pay the same price per person. For example, a marketer who
             successfully bids to have a promotion presented to 200 of 300 people
             available may pay the same price per person as does a marketer who
 5           successfully bids to have a promotion presented to 100 of 300 people
             available. The amount paid per person by both marketers may be based on
             the lower bid. The amount paid per person by both marketers may be
             based on the higher bid. The amount paid per person by both marketers
             may be an average or weighted average (e.g., where weightings are
10           proportional to the number of people who will view the each of the
             marketers' respective promotions) of both bids.
        8.8. An advertiser has an exclusive to a particular "slot" (a medium like a
             card). The advertisermay pay extrafor this. In various embodiments, a
             marketer may gain exclusive use of a slot, medium, or other advertising
15           venue or opportunity. A marketer may gain exclusive rights to: (a) a
             particular mobile gaming device (e.g., a marketer may have exclusive
             rights to present promotions on the particular mobile gaming device for
             some period of time); (b) a particular symbol (e.g., a marketer may have
             exclusive rights to present promotions on the jack of spades; e.g., a
20           marketer may have exclusive rights to present promotions at the third
             symbol position of the second reel of a gaming device); (c) a particular
             area of a screen (e.g., a marketer may have exclusive rights to present
             promotions in the upper right corner of a display screen of a mobile
             gaming device; e.g., a marketer may have exclusive rights to present
25           promotions below the playing area on a display screen of a mobile gaming
             device); (d) a particular display monitor (e.g., a marketer may have
             exclusive rights to present promotions on a display monitor located above
             a heavily trafficked corridor in a casino); (e) a particular gaming device
             (e.g., a marketer may have exclusive rights to present promotions on a
30           particular gaming device; (f) a particular location (e.g., a marketer may
             have exclusive rights to present promotions to players when the players are
             at a certain location); (g) a particular time of day (e.g., a marketer may
                                                123

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             have exclusive rights to present promotions during a particular time of
             day); (h) a particular group of people (e.g., a marketer may have exclusive
             rights to present promotions to a particular demographic of people in a
             casino; e.g., a marketer may have exclusive rights to present promotions to
 5           a defined set of people, such as the Jones family; e.g., a marketer may have
             exclusive rights to present promotions to any person who has won more
             than $500 in the last hour); or to any other category of promotional
             opportunity.
10           In various embodiments, when a marketer gains exclusive use of a slot,
             medium, or other advertising venue or opportunity, other marketers may
             be excluded from presenting promotions in the venue while the period of
             exclusivity persists. In various embodiments, the marketer with exclusive
             rights may allow other marketers to present promotions at his discretion.
15           The marketer who allows other marketers to present promotions may
             receive fees from the other marketers.
             In various embodiments, a marketer may pay extra for the exclusive right
             to use a particular slot, medium, venue, etc. For example, suppose the cost
20           per square inch per minute of promotional space on a mobile gaming
             device is ordinarily 10 cents. If a marketer desires to purchase every
             square inch of screen space on a mobile gaming device for an hour, the
             marketer may pay 12 cents per square inch per minute.
25           In various embodiments, a marketer may gain exclusive rights to a
             particular slot, medium, venue, etc., with respect to a group of marketers.
             The group of marketers may be a group of competing marketers, for
             example. For example, a marketer may gain the exclusive right to present
             promotions related to airlines on a particular mobile gaming device. As
30           another example, a marketer may gain the exclusive right to present
             promotions related to food during the hour of 12:00pm to 1:00pm on all
             mobile gaming devices within a casino. In various embodiments, a
                                               124

  WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
              marketer may pay extra for exclusive rights to present a particular type of
              promotion, or for rights to exclude a particular group of other marketers
              from presenting promotions.
         8.9. Where several advertiserswant a slot, every time the slot appearsin a
 5            game one of the ads is selected at random. An advertisercan pay more to
              have a greaterprobabilisticweighting applied to his ad. For example, if
             four advertiserspay 2, 5, 6 and 10 respectively, then their respective
              weights can be 2 / 23, 5 / 23, 6 / 23 and 10 / 23. In various embodiments,
              a marketer may pay for a chance or probability of having his promotion
10            presented. For example, a marketer may pay 5 cents and thereby have a
              50% chance of having his promotion presented in a particular slot. In
              various embodiments, various marketers may pay to have a promotion
              presented in the same slot. For each marketer, a chance that the promotion
              will be presented in that slot may be determined. For example, the chance
15            that marketer l's promotion will be presented may be determined to be
              40%, the chance that marketer 2's promotion will be presented may be
              determined to be 20%, and the chance that marketer 32's promotion will
              be presented may be determined to be 20%. The chance that each
              marketer's promotion will be presented may be based on the amounts paid
20            by each marketer. In various embodiments, the chance that a marketer's
              promotion will be presented is set in proportion to the amount paid by the
              marketer. Thus, if marketer 1 pays twice as does marketer 2 to have his
              promotion presented in a particular slot, then the chance that marketer l's
              promotion will be presented may be set twice as high as that of marketer 2.
25
              In various embodiments, a slot may include a number of presentation
              opportunities. For example, a slot may include an opportunity to present a
              promotion to 100 people during a particular five-minute time window. If
              multiple marketers pay to have a promotion presented during the same
30            slot, the presentation opportunities may be divided among the marketers.
              For example, one marketer may present his promotion to 60 of the 100
              people, while another marketer may present his promotion to 40 of the 100
                                                125

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             people. In various embodiments, the number of presentation opportunities
             given each marketer may be proportional to the amount paid by the
             marketer. For example, if marketer 1 pays $7, and marketer 2 pays $3,
             then marketer 1 may have his promotion presented to 70 people while
 5           marketer 2 may have his promotion presented to 30 people.
             In various embodiments, a slot may include an opportunity to present a
             promotion on (or in place of) a particular symbol when the symbol arises
             in a game. As will be appreciated, the symbol may arise multiple times
10           over the course of multiple games. If multiple marketers pay to have a
             promotions presented in that slot, then one of the marketers' promotions
             may be chosen at random each time there is an opportunity arises (e.g.,
             each time the symbol arises in a game). The probability that a marketer's
             promotion will be presented each time an opportunity arises may be
15           proportional to the amount paid by the marketer. In various embodiments,
             the promotions presented may alternate among all marketers who have
             paid to have promotions presented in a particular slot. Marketers who
             have paid more may have their promotions presented more frequently. For
             example, suppose a first marketer has paid twice as much as a second
20           marketer to present promotions in a particular slot. Then, for every three
             opportunities to present promotions in that slot, the first marketer may be
             given the first and third opportunities, while the second marketer may be
             given the second opportunity.
        8.10.        There can also be a secondary marketfor ad space. The ad space
25           can be transferred,for example, with the central service getting a small
             cut. In various embodiments, a marketer may purchase slots, venues, etc.
             directly from the casino. In various embodiments, a first marketer may
             purchase slots, venues, etc. from another marketer or from any other third
             party. In various embodiments, slots, venues, and other promotional
30           opportunities may be purchased and resold. A secondary market may exist
             for promotional opportunities.
                                              126

 WO 2008/070787                                                            PCT/US2007/086661
             In various embodiments, the casino may run an exchange for promotional
             opportunities. In various embodiments, the exchange may be run by a
             third party. In various embodiments, the exchange may have no individual
             governing authority. The exchange may allow a marketer to post offers to
 5           sell promotional opportunities. The exchange may allow a marketer to
             post offers to buy promotional opportunities. Offers to buy may include
             quantities and prices. For example, an offer to buy may specify a number
             of people to which a promotion will be presented as well as a price that
             will be paid for the promotional opportunity. Likewise, an offer to sell
10           may specify a price and quantity as well.
             In various embodiments, offers to buy and offers to sell may include
             descriptions of the opportunity being bought or sold. A description may
             include: (a) a number of people to which a promotion will be presented;
15           (b) a time of day during which the promotion will be presented; (c) a
             number of mobile gaming devices on which the promotion will be
             presented; (d) the demographic of the people to whom the promotion will
             be presented; (e) the amount of time that the promotion will occupy (e.g.,
             the promotion must be a 30-second spot) (f) the form of the promotion
20           (e.g., still image; e.g., video; e.g., audio); (g) the amount of screen or
             display space the promotion may occupy; (i) the game that the promotion
             will accompany (e.g., the promotion will be made while players play video
             poker; (j) the symbol that a promotion will represent or replace (e.g., the
             promotion will represent a jackpot symbol); and any other descriptors of
25           promotions or the circumstances under which promotions will be
             presented.
             The description of the opportunity being bought or sold may be provided
             by the casino. The casino may, in fact, be the originator of the opportunity
30           and so may possess a description of the opportunity which it has come up
             with. In various embodiments, each opportunity may receive a unique
             identifier. For example, the opportunity to promote to 100 people between
                                                 127

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             the ages of 55 and 65, each with incomes over $100,000, between 11:00am
             and 11:05am in a 30-second video spot taking up half of a screen may
             have a unique identifier of 1112223453. In various embodiments,
             identical or fungible opportunities may receive the same identifier. For
 5           example, the opportunity to present to a first person from Tennessee at
             9:00pm may be indistinguishable from the opportunity to present to a
             second person from Tennessee at 9:00pm. Thus the two opportunities may
             have identical identifiers. However, any opportunity which is different in
             some way may receive a different identifier. Associated with each
10           identifier may be a description of the opportunity. A marketer who is
             interested in purchasing a particular opportunity, for example, may use the
             identifier associated with the opportunity to access a description of the
             opportunity. For example, the casino may store a database containing
             descriptions of opportunities in association with identifiers. If a marketer
15           submits an identifier to the database, the casino may retrieve the
             description and present the description to the marketer. The description
             may be presented to a marketer, e.g., on a Web interface to the exchange.
             In various embodiments, a quantity specified by a marketer may refer to a
20           number of a particular opportunity that is associated with an identifier.
             For example, a marketer may wish to purchase 100 of the opportunity with
             identifier 1112223999. This may correspond to the opportunity to present
             a still image to 100 people who are in a particular restaurant at a casino
             between the hours of 12:00pm and 2:00pm on Sunday.
25
             In various embodiments, an opportunity may include the opportunity to
             present a 10-second video clip to a particular individual sometime between
             6:00pm and 9:00pm. There may be 100 such opportunities available,
             meaning that the same individual will have 100 10-second video clips
30           presented on his mobile gaming device between 6:00pm and 9:00pm.
             However, as the particular times that the video clips are presented may be
             chosen at random, each individual opportunity from among the 100 may
                                              128

 WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
             be a priori indistinguishable from each other opportunity. Therefore each
             of the 100 opportunities may have the same identifier. Thus, for example,
             a marketer may bid on 10 such opportunities to present to the player. If
             the marketer should find a seller to give him the 10 opportunities, the
 5           marketer would have the ability to present 10 10-second video clips to the
             person sometime between 6:00pm and 9:00pm.
             In various embodiments, one purpose of the exchange may be to match
             buyers and sellers of the same opportunity. If a buyer bids a certain price
10           for a certain quantity of a particular opportunity, and a seller offers the
             same price for the same quantity of the same particular opportunity, the
             buyer and seller may be matched. A sale may take place. The buyer may
             thus acquire the opportunities to present promotions, and the seller may
             give up such opportunities. In exchange, the seller may receive payment
15           from the buyer based on the bid and offer amounts. The casino, or other
             authority in charge of the exchange may receive a transaction fee for
             matching the buyer and seller. For example, the casino may receive a
             transaction fee from either the buyer, seller, or both. The fee may come
             from the last of the buyer or seller to match the price of the other. The fee
20           may come from the first of the buyer and seller to post the price at which
             the transaction took place. The fee may take the form of a percentage of
             the sale price, and may be deducted from the amount that the seller collects
             from the buyer.
25           In various embodiments, a potential buyer may pay a fee just for posting a
             bid. In various embodiments, a potential seller may pay a fee just for
             posting an offer. In various embodiments, participants in the exchange
             may pay a fixed fee, a fixed fee per period of time, or a fixed fee per
             transactions completed, in order to participate on the exchange.
30
             When an opportunity has come into the hands of a buyer, the buyer's name
             or other identifying information may be stored in association with the
                                               129

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
             opportunity. Thus, the casino may maintain a record of which marketers
             own which opportunities for presenting promotions. When it comes time
             for presenting promotions, the casino may allow the owners of the
             promotional opportunities to present their promotions during those times.
 5
             In various embodiments, an owner of a promotional opportunity must
             submit a promotion to the casino within a predetermined time of coming
             into possession of the opportunity. For example, within 1 hour after
             buying a promotional opportunity, a buyer may be required to submit an
10           advertisement to the casino. The casino may subsequently approve the
             advertisement before it can be shown. In various embodiments, an owner
             of a promotional opportunity must submit a promotion to the casino within
             a predetermined period of time of the promotion's showing, or first
             potential showing. For example, suppose a promotion has a 10% chance
15           of being shown as early as 8:00pm. Then the owner of the promotional
             opportunity may be required to submit the promotion by 7:00pm. If the
             promotion is not submitted on time, the owner of the promotional
             opportunity may lose the opportunity and may be unable to have his
             promotion shown. In various embodiments, if an owner of an opportunity
20           does not submit his promotion in time, the opportunity may return to the
             market, for potential acquisition by a new owner.
             In various embodiments, contingency opportunities for presenting
             promotions may be sold. A contingency opportunity may include ability
25           of a second marketer to present a promotion if a first marketer with
             priority over the second marketer decides not to present a promotion. For
             example, a first marketer may purchase the opportunity to present a
             promotion to a particular person at a particular time. A second marketer
             may purchase the opportunity to present to the same person at the same
30           time if the first marketer does not.
                                              130

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
              In various embodiments, an identifier for an opportunity may include a
              ticker symbol. The ticker symbol may be a compact way of representing
              or identifying the opportunity. For example, the ticker symbol may consist
              of four letters.
 5
        8.11.        By the presentationmeans (audio versus video). In various
              embodiments, the price of a promotional opportunity may depend on the
              type of signal used to broadcast the promotion. For example, promotions
              that employ visual or light based presentations may be priced differently
10            than promotions that employ audio or sound based presentations. A
              promotion that uses video and audio may be priced differently than is a
              promotion which uses only video. A promotion that uses video and audio
              may be priced differently than is a promotion which uses only audio. A
              promotion which uses vibrations or other touch stimuli may be priced
15            differently from a promotion that does not use touch stimuli. A promotion
              that uses smell may be priced differently from a promotion that does not
              use smell.
    9. Data aboutplayers that is availablefor reference. In various embodiments, a
        casino may store various data related to a player. Data may be received in
20      various ways. A player may provide data about himself to the casino. For
        example, a player may provide data when making a reservation or when
        signing up for a player tracking card. The casino may receive data about a
        player when performing a check on the player, such as when performing a
        check, on a player prior to granting credit to the player. The casino may
25      receive data about a player by tracking its interaction with a player. For
        example, through the player's interaction with the casino, the casino may
        gather data about a player's wins and losses, recent outcomes, and so on.
        In various embodiments, data about a player may be used by marketers to
30      select a target audience for their promotions. For example, a marketer may
        decide that he wishes to advertise only to players with high skill levels at video
        poker. In various embodiments, a marketer may select a target audience by
                                               131

  WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
         navigating through a series of menus. One menu may relate to age. Using the
         menu, a marketer may select an age range for his target audience. Another
         menu may relate to income. Using the menu, the marketer may select an
         income range for his target audience.
 5
         In various embodiments, having selected a target audience, a marketer may
         indicate that he wishes his promotions to go to the target audience. In various
         embodiments, having indicated a target audience, the marketer may first view
         statistics describing how many of his target audience are currently available for
10       viewing promotions. For example, the marketer may view statistics describing
         how many of his target audience are currently using mobile gaming devices. If
         the marketer is satisfied with the number of his target audience that are
         available, then the marketer may indicate he wishes his promotion(s) shown to
         the target audience.
15
         In various embodiments, one or more of the following types of data may be
         available with respect to a player: (a) name; (b) address; (c) gender; (d) date of
         birth; (e) data derived from games the player has played; (f) a skill level of the
         player at a game; (g) a skill level of the player at Blackjack; (h) a skill level of
20       the player at video poker; (i) transaction data for the player; (j) an average
         deposit size for the player; (k) a bet amount made by the player; (1) an average
         bet amount made by the player; (m) a bet limit for the player (e.g., a maximum
         amount that a player is allowed to bet per game; e.g., a maximum total that a
         player is allowed to bet over a plurality of games, such as over a session of
25       games); (n) a bet limit for the player that has been self-imposed by the player
         (e.g., a maximum amount that a player is allowed to bet per game by request of
         the player); (o) a loss limit for the player (e.g., a maximum amount that a
         player is allowed to lose over some period of time, beyond which the player
         will be prevented from further gaming); (p) a deposit limit for the player (e.g.,
30       a maximum amount that a player is allowed to deposit in a gaming machine;
         e.g., a maximum amount of chips that a player is allowed to buy at a gaming
         table).
                                                 132

 WO 2008/070787                                                            PCT/US2007/086661
        In various embodiments, one or more of the following types of data may be
        available with respect to a player: (a) residential address; (b) residential address
        city; (c) residential address country; (d) residential address preferred; (e)
 5      residential address street; (f) residential address suburb; (g) residential address
        zip; (h) postal address; (i) postal address city; (j) postal address country; (k)
        postal address preferred; (1) postal address street; (m) postal address suburb; (n)
        postal address zip; (o) contact details; (p) email; (q) secondary email; (r) fax
        number; (s) mobile (e.g., the phone number for the player's mobile device); (t)
10      pager (e.g., the contact number for the players' pager); (u) preferred contact
        method; (v) business number (e.g., the phone number for the player's
        business); (w) home number (e.g., the phone number for the player's home);
        (x) credit cards details; (y) personal details; (z) agent code; (aa) date of birth;
        (bb) first name; (cc) last name; (dd) middle name; (ee) national id; (ff)
15      nationality (e.g., the player's country of origin; e.g., the country in which the
        player has citizenship); (gg) promotional code; (hh) sex; (ii) title; (jj)
        authentication question and answers (e.g., questions about the player's
        mother's maiden name and answers to such questions); (kk) bank account
        details; (11) bank name; (mm) bankaccount id; (nn) branchaddress; (oo)
20      branchcode; (pp) branch country; (qq) accountname; and (rr) accountno.
    The player chooses a type of ad at the time when he checks out a mobile device.
    In various embodiments, a player may make one or more designations at the time
    when he receives a mobile device. Such designations may influence the
25  promotions and advertisements shown to the player. For example, such
    designations may influence the types of companies that advertise to the player or
    the types of products that are advertised to the player.
    A player may receive a mobile device in a number of ways. In various
30  embodiments, a player may receive a mobile device at a cage at a casino, at a
    vending machine, or at a front desk at a casino hotel. In various embodiments, a
    player may receive a mobile device from a casino representative. For example, a
                                                133

 WO 2008/070787                                                             PCT/US2007/086661
    player may be situated at a slot machine and wish to move around the casino while
    continuing to engage in gaming. Accordingly, the player may request that a casino
    representative provide the player with mobile device for gaming. A player may
    also be in possession of a mobile device of his own (e.g., the player may be in
 5  possession of a personal cell phone). A player already in possession of a mobile
    device may make one or more designations pertaining to advertisements at the time
    he configures or enables his mobile device for the purposes of gaming.
    When receiving or configuring a mobile device, a player may make a number of
10  designations. The player may indicate: (a) a product (e.g., Coke); (b) a category of
    products (e.g., soft drinks; e.g., leisure cruises); (c) a brand; (d) a company; (e) a
    manufacturer; (f) a purpose for a product (e.g., as a wedding present; e.g.,
    something to clean a bathroom); (g) a price range (e.g., a price range for a product
    that the player may be willing to buy; (h) a budget range (e.g., an amount the
15  player may have available to spend); (i) a desired sales representative or type of
    sales representative that the player may be interested in communicating with (e.g.,
    a life insurance agent). Such designations by the player may allow a marketer to
    determine the desirability of sending advertisements or promotions to a player. For
    example, if a player has designated the product category of a particular marketer,
20  then the marketer may be more willing to pay to have the player view an
    advertisement for the marketer's product. The designations may also aid the
    casino in selling advertising space to marketers. For example, the casino may be
    able to convince cruise lines to advertise on the mobile devices of players if the
    casino can show cruise line marketers that a number of such players are interested
25  in vacations on cruise lines.
    When receiving or configuring a mobile device, a player may also indicate
    characteristics about himself/herself. The player may indicate an age, race, income
    level, place of residence, family status, gender, political preference, occupation, or
30  any other piece of information. Such information may further aid marketers in
    deciding which players to advertise to, how much to pay to provide
                                                134

 WO 2008/070787                                                         PCT/US2007/086661
    advertisements, and in deciding what advertisements to send to one or more
    players.
    Bonus round on a separatedevice
 5  In various embodiments, a player may engage in part of a game on a mobile
    gaming device, and part of the same game on another device. The other device
    may be a gaming device that is not a mobile device. For example, the other device
    may be a slot machine, video poker machine, video blackjack machine, or the like.
    In some embodiments, the gaming device may offer an experience to the player
10  that is not available on the mobile gaming device. Thus, it may be more exciting
    or otherwise pleasing for the player to play a portion of a game on the other
    gaming device rather than playing the entire game on the mobile gaming device.
    In some embodiments, a player may reach a bonus round of a game while playing
    on a mobile gaming device. The bonus round of the game may feature random
15  event embodied in a physical process. For example, the bonus round may feature
    the spinning of a wheel. While it is possible that the spinning of a wheel may be
    visually simulated using a display screen of a mobile gaming device, for example,
    it may be more exciting for a player if he actually sees a physical wheel spin.
    Thus, a player may play out the bonus round portion of his game using a gaming
20  device that is not mobile. The gaming device used for the bonus round may
    include a physical spinning wheel. The wheel may spin to reveal the player's prize
    in the bonus round.
    In various embodiments, when a first portion of a game is played on a mobile
25  gaming device, and a second portion of a game is played on another device, the
    outcome of the game may be determined in several ways. The outcome of the
    game may be determined solely based on random numbers or events generated by
    the mobile gaming device. The outcome of the game may be determined solely
    based on random numbers or events generated by the other device (e.g., by a
30  gaming device that is not mobile). The outcome of the game may be determined
    solely by a third device, such as by a casino server. The outcome of the game may
    be determined based on random numbers or events generated by both the mobile
                                              135

 WO 2008/070787                                                           PCT/US2007/086661
    gaming device and the other device (e.g., the gaming device that is not mobile).
    For example, entry into a bonus round may be determined based on random
    numbers generated on a mobile gaming device. The outcome of the bonus round
    may be based on random numbers generated at the other device (e.g., at the gaming
 5  device that is not mobile). The outcome of the game may be determined based on
    random numbers or events generated at the mobile gaming device and at the third
    device (e.g., the casino server). The outcome of the game may be determined
    based on random numbers or events generated at the other device (e.g., at the
    gaming device that is not mobile) and at the third device (e.g., at the casino server).
10  The outcome of the game may be determined based on random numbers or events
    generated at the mobile gaming device, at the other device (e.g., at the gaming
    device that is not mobile), and at the third device (e.g., at the casino server).
    100% Payback device
15  In various embodiments, a game on a mobile gaming device may have a house
    edge of 0%. In various embodiments, a game on a mobile gaming device may
    have a negative house edge. As will be appreciated, games with 0% house edge
    may fail to yield profits for a casino. As will be appreciated, games with a
    negative house edge may potentially cost a casino money. Thus, in various
20  embodiments, a casino may use revenue from presenting promotions in order to
    supplement costs associated with games that have 0% or less house edge.
    In various embodiments, a casino may present enough promotions on a mobile
    gaming device to create a desired positive house edge when earnings from
25  promotions are counted. For example, for each $1 game played on a mobile
    gaming device, the mobile gaming device may present 5 promotions. For example,
    the five promotions may include five products which take the place of symbols on
    simulated slot machine reels. For each promotion presented, the marketer
    sponsoring the promotion may pay the casino one cent. Thus, the casino may earn
30  five cents from marketers for each $1 game played. Even if the house edge on the
    game itself is 0%, the casino may effectively maintain a 5% house edge when
    earnings from promotions are taken into account. In order to attain a desired
                                               136

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
    effective house edge, a casino may adjust the number of promotions presented per
    game played and/or adjust the fees charged to marketers per promotion. For
    instance, in the foregoing example, if the casino wished to receive a 6% house
    edge, the casino may have caused the presentation of 6 promotions per game rather
 5  than 5.
    In various embodiments, a player of a game may be required to view or otherwise
    peruse one or more promotions in order play games with a zero or negative house
    edge. As a player views promotions, a player may accumulate points, tokens, or
10  other scrip. The player may be required to accumulate a certain number of points
    in order to play games with a zero or negative house edge. As the player
    approaches a target number of points, the house edge may get smaller and smaller,
    reaching zero when the player achieves the target number of points. For example,
    a game may conventionally have a house edge of 10%. However, when a player
15  has viewed half of the promotions required to play games with a 0% house edge,
    the house edge may decline to 5%.      In various embodiments, as a player
    accumulates points, the player may use such points to play a game with a 0% or
    negative house edge. Once the player uses up points, the player may be required to
    earn further points (e.g., by viewing more promotions) in order to play further
20  game with a 0% or negative house edge.
    In various embodiments, a meter or other gauge may indicate a player's progress
    towards being able to play games with a 0% house edge. As a player views more
    promotions, for example, the meter may more closely approach a target. When the
25  target is reached, the player may be able to play games with a 0% house edge. In
    various embodiments, a player may be required to continually, periodically, or
    sporadically view additional promotions in order to maintain the privilege of
    playing games with a 0% or negative house edge. If the player fails to view
    promotions at the desired rate, the player may lose points and/or the meter may
30  move away from its target range. The player may then be left to play games with a
    positive house edge until such time as the player views additional promotions.
                                              137

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
     Getting regulatory approvalforads
    In various embodiments, a casino may seek regulatory approval to feature or insert
    a promotion into a game.     In various embodiments, a casino may seek regulatory
    approval to feature or insert a graphic associated with a promotion into a game.
 5  In various embodiments, a casino may seek regulatory approval to feature or insert
    any graphic into a game.     The game may be a game of chance played for money,
    such as a slot machine game or video poker game. In various embodiments, a
    casino may receive blanket approval to insert any one of several graphics, at the
    casino's discretion, into a game. For example, the casino may desire regulatory
10  approval to insert any one of 50 different graphics into a game. For example, the
    casino may desire regulatory approval to insert any one of 50 graphics as a symbol
    into a game. The graphics, or any data related to a promotion, may be shown in
    advance to regulators. The regulators may approve all the graphics, or other data,
    and may then allow the casino to insert any one of such graphics, at its discretion,
15  into the game.
    Terms of regulator approval for inserting a graphic into a game may include any
    one or more of the following: (a) the presence of a graphic has no effect on the
    game when compared to how the game would be played if the graphic were not
20  present; (b) the presence of a graphic has no effect on the payout of the game when
    compared to what the payout of the game would be if the graphic were not present;
    (c) the graphic in no way indicates or represents something that is not true (e.g., a
    graphic cannot say "winner" if the graphic does not form part of a winning
    outcome); (d) the graphic in no way indicates or represents anything about the
25  game itself (e.g., the graphic does not suggest an amount of a payout, a winning or
    losing outcome, an entry into a bonus round, etc. The graphic may simply convey
    a message that is independent of the game play); (e) the graphic is not offensive;
    (f) the graphic cannot be confused for another graphic that is already part of the
    game; (g) the graphic cannot be confused for a graphic that is part of any game
30  (e.g., a graphic of a clown might be forbidden because it might be confused with a
    joker symbol); (h) the graphic may not appeal to children or minors (e.g., the
    graphic may not show toys or brands which appeal to children); and so on. It will
                                              138

 WO 2008/070787                                                       PCT/US2007/086661
    be appreciated that the foregoing terms may apply to video, cartoons, animation,
    audio, or any other information which may be featured in a promotion.
    Obtaining regulatory approval on the foregoing may allow a casino to solicit
 5  promotions which may be obtained from marketers and then which may
    incorporated into games. A new promotion may be received and then incorporated
    without the necessity of obtaining regulatory approval between the time the
    promotion is received and the time the promotion is incorporated. This may allow
    for marketers to enjoy a rapid turnaround time between when promotions are
10  submitted and when the promotions are incorporated.
    In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may display a promotion that
    serves to encourage a player to play at a stationary gaming device. For example, a
    player may be holding a mobile gaming device as he walks through a casino.      The
15  mobile gaming device may start buzzing and then display a message. The message
    may inform the player that a stationary gaming device of a certain type is nearby.
    For example, the message may read, "There is a great game called Jackpot Jungle"
    to your right. It is very lucky today!". In various embodiments, a mobile gaming
    device may detect the presence of a nearby stationary device, or vice versa. The
20  mobile gaming device may then encourage the player to visit the nearby stationary
    gaming device. There may be any of a number of triggering conditions which
    trigger the display of a message to a player encouraging the player to visit a
    stationary gaming device. Triggering conditions may include the following: (a) the
    stationary gaming device is within a predetermine distance of the mobile gaming
25  device; (b) the stationary gaming device has a higher betting limit than the mobile
    gaming device; (c) the stationary gaming device supports the same game that the
    player has been playing on his mobile gaming device; (d) the stationary gaming
    device supports the same game that the player had played in the past; (e) the
    stationary gaming device supports a game on which the player had experienced
30  good results in the past (e.g., a game on which the player had won more than $100
    in the past); (f) the stationary gaming device features a new game (e.g., a new
    game that the casino wishes to test; e.g., a new game that a manufacture wishes to
                                              139

  WO 2008/070787                                                          PCT/US2007/086661
     test; e.g., a new game that the casino wishes to popularize); and any other
     triggering conditions.
     In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device, or any mobile device, may serve
 5   as an information display or information conduit for nearby objects, people, or
     other things or entities. In various embodiments, a player may hold the mobile
     gaming device close to a stationary gaming device in order to find out information
     about the stationary gaming device. For example, a player may hold up a mobile
     gaming device close to a stationary gaming device in order to find out historical
10   gaming results at the stationary gaming device. Information that may be revealed
     on a mobile gaming device about a stationary gaming device may include the
     following: (a) the last outcome; (b) the last payout; (c) the last 10 outcomes; (d) the
     last 10 payouts; (e) the last X outcomes; (f) the last X payouts; (g) the last time a
     bonus round was reached; (g) the net winnings of the prior player at the stationary
15   gaming device; (h) the gross winnings of the prior player at the stationary gaming
     device; (i) the amount won at the stationary gaming device in the last hour; (j) the
     amount won at the stationary gaming device in the last X period of time; (k) the
     last time a jackpot was won; (1) the largest payout to be won in the last hour; (m)
     the identity of any celebrity that has played at the stationary gaming device; and
20   any other information about the stationary gaming device.
     In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may reveal information about a
     gaming table. The mobile gaming device may reveal results or outcomes at the
     table. For example, the mobile gaming device may display representations of
25   cards that are currently in play at the table. For example, the mobile gaming
     device may display representations of the community cards that are currently in
     play in a game of Texas Hold'em. In various embodiments, a mobile gaming
     device may display representations of current pot sizes or beta amounts at a table.
     The mobile gaming device may display representations of hidden or secret cards.
30   For example, a mobile gaming device may show representations of cards that a
     player holds in his hand, or representations of cards yet to be deal. In various
     embodiments, a mobile gaming device may show: (a) the identify of one or more
                                                140

 WO 2008/070787                                                              PCT/US2007/086661
    players at a table; (b) a gaming history of one or more players at a table (e.g., the
    most recent outcome achieved by a player at the table; e.g., the winnings for the
    player at the table in the last hour); (c) the identify of the dealer at the table; (d) the
    stakes at the table; (e) the betting limit at the table; (f) the last X cards dealt at the
 5  table; (g) the manufacturer of the table; (h) the availability of a seat at the table
    (e.g., the mobile gaming device may show that there is one seat available at the
    table; e.g., the mobile gaming device may show that there are 3 people in line to sit
    at the table); (i) information about a dealer at the table; (j)information about how
    much players have won when playing with this dealer; and any other information
10  about the game at the table, the outcomes at the table, the players at the table; and
    any other information about the table.
    In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may display information about a
    restaurant. The mobile gaming device may display information including: (a) an
15  indication of one or more menu items that are in the restaurant; (b) an indication of
    prices in the restaurant; (c) in indication of ratings or reviews for the restaurant; (c)
    an indication of the available seating in the restaurant; (d) information about a chef
    at a the restaurant; (e) an indication of an expected wait time; (f) an indication of
    an expected time to be served dinner; (g) an indication of any special items being
20  served; (h) an indication of any promotion associated with the restaurant (e.g., a
    current promotion may offer drinks at half price); and any other information about
    the restaurant.
    In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may display information about a
25  store or other retail establishment. A mobile gaming device may display
    information including: (a) product listings; (b) product prices; (c) promotions (e.g.,
    a promotion may offer 50% on all items in the store); (d) product reviews; (e)
    product sizes (e.g., sizes for clothes); (f) number available of every product, and
    any other information about the store.
30
    In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may have different settings in
    terms of what types of information or how much information it may reveal about a
                                                141

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
    stationary gaming device, about a person, or about any other entity. In various
    embodiments, different settings may allow a player to view information about
    different time periods. A first setting may allow a player to view information from
    a particular time in the past. A second setting may allow a player to view
 5  information from another, more distant time in the past. For example, a first
    setting may allow a player to view historical game information about a stationary
    gaming device up to 10 minutes in the past. In other words, the player may be able
    to see what outcomes have occurred at the gaming device in the past ten minutes.
    However, outcomes which had occurred at the gaming device more than ten
10  minutes ago may not be available for viewing by the player. A second setting of a
    mobile gaming device may allow a player to view historical gaming results from a
    stationary gaming device up to one our in the past. In various embodiments, a
    setting may determine the range over which a mobile gaming device may display
    information about a stationary gaming device or other person, object, or entity. At
15  a first setting, the mobile gaming device may be able to display information about
    a stationary gaming device that is up to 10 feet away. At a second setting, the
    mobile gaming device may be able to display information about a stationary
    gaming device that is up to 50 feet away. If a player has a mobile gaming device at
    the second setting, the player may be able to sweep the mobile gaming device in an
20  arc with his hand and to thereby find out information about many different
    stationary gaming devices without having to move his feet. In various
    embodiments, settings may determine the type of stationary gaming device, person,
    object, or other entity about which a mobile gaming device may display
    information. For example, in a first setting, a mobile gaming device may display
25  information only about stationary gaming devices that feature video poker. In a
    second setting a mobile gaming device may display information only about
    stationary gaming devices that feature slot machine games.
    In various embodiments, prior to displaying information about a stationary gaming
30  device, person, or other object or entity, a mobile gaming device must first detect
    the stationary gaming device. Further, in various embodiments, it must be decided
    which stationary gaming device among several proximate gaming devices will be
                                              142

 WO 2008/070787                                                        PCT/US2007/086661
    the one for which information will be displayed on the mobile gaming device. For
    example, the mobile gaming device may be proximate to several stationary gaming
    devices. It must then be determined which of the several proximate stationary
    devices will be the one for which information is displayed on the mobile gaming
 5  device. In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device will display information
    about the stationary gaming device to which it is closest. In various embodiments,
    a mobile gaming device will display information about the stationary device to
    which it is most nearly being pointed. For example, a mobile gaming device may
    have side or face which may be assumed to constitute the front of the mobile
10  gaming device. When the front of the mobile gaming device is facing or pointing
    towards a particular stationary gaming device, then the mobile gaming device may
    display information about the stationary gaming device. In various embodiments,
    a mobile gaming device may display information about a stationary gaming device
    which is facing in the direction of the mobile gaming device. Thus, for example,
15  the mobile gaming device may display information about a first stationary gaming
    device that is further away than is a second stationary gaming device if the first
    stationary gaming devices faces in the direction of the mobile gaming device and
    the second stationary gaming device faces in a different direction.
20  In various embodiments, a player may pay to have particular settings on his mobile
    gaming device, where such settings determine the amount of information that may
    be displayed on the mobile gaming device. For example, a player may pay $5 per
    day for a first setting in which he can hold his mobile gaming device up to a
    stationary gaming device and see the last 10 outcomes of the stationary gaming
25  device displayed on his mobile gaming device. The player may pay $10 per day
    for a second setting in which he can hold his mobile gaming device up to a
    stationary gaming device and see the last 100 outcomes of the stationary gaming
    device displayed on his mobile gaming device. In various embodiments, a mobile
    gaming device may receive information such that it is capable of displaying the
30  information available for any possible setting. However, the mobile gaming device
    may withhold information or not display certain information that it has received
    based on its current setting. For example, a mobile gaming device may be in a first
                                              143

   setting where it may only display the last 10 outcomes that have occurred on a
   stationary gaming device. The stationary gaming device may, in fact,
   communicate to the mobile gaming device the last 100 outcomes that have
   occurred at the stationary gaming device. However, the mobile gaming device
 5 may only display 10 of those outcomes because of its current setting. Were the
   mobile gaming device in a second setting, the mobile gaming device might display
   all 100 of those outcomes. In various embodiments, a mobile gaming device may
   request from a stationary gaming device, from the casino server, or from any other
   source only the information that it may communicate to a player based on the
10 current setting of the mobile gaming device.
   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
   as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
   the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                             144

CLAIMS:
1.      An apparatus comprising:
        a mobile device;
        at least one processor of at least one computer in electronic communication with at
least one other computer; and
        a non-transitory medium having stored thereon a set of instructions, which when
executed by the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to:
                 receive, from an advertiser via a computing device associated with the
        advertiser, content for a promotion;
                 determine that the content should be presented on the mobile device, in
        which such determining includes making a random determination based on a
        probabilistic weighting applied to each of a plurality of advertisers, in which the
        probabilistic weighting is based on a respective monetary figure associated with
        respective bids received from each advertiser;
                 determine that the content meets one or more of a set of predetermined
        criteria, in which the criteria define a set of characteristics that must be met by the
        content for the promotion;
                 identify a mobile device in use by a player;
                 determine that a game event occurs in a game played through the mobile
        device;
                 after determining that the game event occurs, determine that the mobile
        device is in a first location where the mobile device must be present for the
        promotion to be made that is different from a second location that the mobile device
        was in when the game event occurred;
                 in response to determining that the game event occurs and that the mobile
        device is in the first location, transmit the content to the mobile handheld gaming
        device for presentation of the promotion;
                 receive an indication of a numerical rating that is assigned to the content, in
        which the numerical rating is provided by the player; and
                 transmit the indication of the numerical rating to the advertiser.
                                                145

2.      The apparatus of claim 1, in which presentation of the promotion includes
presenting the content through the mobile device.
3.      The apparatus of claim 1, in which presentation of the promotion includes
transmitting information about the promotion to a stationary device for display by the
stationary device.
4.      The apparatus of claim 1, in which the game event includes a near miss of a winning
outcome.
5.      The apparatus of claim 1, in which determining that the content meets the one or
more of the set of predetermined criteria includes determining that the content does not
include images that are similar to images used in a portion of a second game during which
the promotion will be presented.
6.      The apparatus of claim 1, in which the instructions cause the apparatus to:
in response to determining that the game event occurs, transmit first instructions to the
mobile device describing how to present the content.
7.      The apparatus of claim 6, in which transmitting first instructions includes
transmitting first instructions to the mobile handheld gaming device, the first instructions
describing at least one of:
        (a) a location on a display screen at which to present the promotion; and
        (b) a length of time for which to present the promotion.
6.      The apparatus of claim 1, in which determining that the game event occurs includes
determining that an outcome in a game has occurred.
9.      The apparatus of claim 1, in which the instructions cause the apparatus to:
        display, to the advertiser, an indication of the game event;
        receive a bid for the promotion to be presented in the future from the advertiser, in
which the bid includes a monetary figure; and
        accept the bid based on the monetary figure.
                                                146

10.     The apparatus of claim 9, in which displaying the indication of the game event
includes displaying a credit balance of the player.
11.     The apparatus of claim 9, in which displaying the game event includes displaying a
characteristic of a win by the player.
12.     The apparatus of claim 9, in which the instructions cause the apparatus to:
        determine whether the bid meets one or more of a first set of predetermined criteria,
in which determining whether the bid meets one or more of a first set of predetermined
criteria includes determining whether the monetary figure is greater than a threshold
amount that does not depend on other bids.
13.     The apparatus of claim 1 in which displaying an indication of the game event
includes displaying at least one of: (a) a date; (b) a time; (c) a person; and (d) a
demographic.
14.     The apparatus of claim 1 in which the set of predetermined criteria includes one or
more of:
        (a) the content contains no vulgar language;
        (b) the content contains only images with certain pixel dimensions;
        (c) the content contains no images which are identical to images used in one or more
        predetermined games; and
        (d) the content contains no sounds which are identical to sounds used in one or more
        predetermined games.
15.     The apparatus of claim 1, in which the first location includes a location in a
minimum proximity to a restaurant that the mobile device must be before the promotion is
presented.
16.     The apparatus of claim 1, in which the instructions cause the apparatus to:
        determine a category of the promotion,
                                              147

        determine whether a different promotion falling within the same category has been
recently presented at the mobile device, and
in which transmitting the content includes transmitting the content to the mobile device
only if a different promotion falling within the same category has not been recently
presented at the mobile device.
17.     The apparatus of claim 1, in which the game event includes an amount of money
won by a wager.
                                             148

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
