                                         ABSTRACT
          Syringe assemblies comprising a disinfecting reservoir collar to ensure adherence to
  aseptic techniques for use in flush procedures for vascular access devices (VAD's) are
5 described. Also described are methods of disinfecting vascular access devices.

                     2/11
         00
     C)              0
                   m m
            CO
             Itt ~
                              N1
                             c)
C4
     ICO
   I.CON
                          CD

                         SYRINGE WITH DISINFECTING TIP FEATURE
                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0001]      The present application is a divisional application of Australian patent application
   number <removed-apn> which is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
 5 2012316583 which is a national phase application of PCT/US2012/054787              which claims
   priority to United States Patent Application No. 13/250,097 filed on 30 September 2011. The
   full disclosure of each of these applications is incorporated herein by reference.
   [0001A]      The present invention relates to syringe assemblies and particularly to syringe
10 assemblies comprising a disinfecting reservoir collar to ensure adherence to aseptic
   techniques for use in flush procedures for vascular access devices (VAD's).
                                           BACKGROUND
   [0002]      VAD's are commonly used therapeutic devices and include intravenous (IV)
15 catheters.   There are two general classifications of VAD's, peripheral catheters and central
   venous catheters. To ensure VAD's are used and maintained correctly, standards of practice
   have been developed, which include a cleaning procedure, commonly referred to as flushing a
   catheter.
   [0003]      VAD standards of practice usually recommend that flush procedures be performed
20 after catheter placement, before fluid infusion, and before and after drug administration, blood
   sampling, transfusions and parenteral nutrition.      The goal of these flush procedures is to
   confirm    catheter patency, avoid drug incompatibilities,        ensure complete     drug dose
   administration, prevent thrombus formation and minimize the risk of blood stream infections.
   Flush procedures require different types and amounts of flush solutions. The most commonly
25 used flush solutions are saline and/or heparin lock solution. The type of flush solution and
   amount vary depending on the specific type of catheter. Flush solution volumes between 5
   and 10 ml are most common but can range from 1 ml to 20 ml.
   [0004]      For flush procedures, an IV line refers to a system that can include a VAD, a
   tubing set with clamp and a VAD connector as a termination.            Common types of VAD
30 connectors are covered by pierceable septums or pre-slit septums made of rubber or another
   elastomeric material, which permits insertion of a sharp needle cannula in order to infuse
   fluids into or to withdraw fluids from the catheter. Upon withdrawal of the needle cannula,
   the septum seals itself. Ports having pre-slit septums are used with blunt plastic cannula or
   the frusto-conically shaped tip of a syringe barrel. The syringe tip or the blunt plastic cannula
35 (which is usually attached to a syringe) is gently pushed through the pre-slit septum to
   establish fluid communication.

                                                   2
   [0005]      IV valves, another type of VAD connector that does not require a needle having a
   sharp tip, are activated by the frusto-conically shaped tip of a syringe barrel to allow fluid
   communication between the interior of the syringe and the catheter.           These valves may
   contain features for delivering fluid from a storage compartment in the valve to the catheter,
 5 and are referred to in the art as positive displacement valves. Such a valve is taught in U.S.
   Pat. No. 6,206,861.
   [0006]      Bacteria and other microorganisms may gain entry into a patient's vascular system
   from access hubs and ports/valves upon connection to the VAD to deliver the fluid or
   pharmaceutical. Each access hub (or port/valve or connection) is associated with some risk of
10 transmitting a catheter related bloodstream infection (CRBSI), which can be costly and
   potentially lethal.
   [0007]      Throughout the sequence of procedures associated with the transmission of a
   microorganism that can cause a CRBSI, there are many risks of contact or contamination.
   Contamination can occur during drug mixing, attachment of a cannula, and insertion into the
15 access hub. Because the procedure to connect to a VAD is so common and simple, the risk
   associated with entry into a patient's vascular system has often been overlooked. Presently,
   the risk to hospitals and patients is a substantial function of the diligence of the clinician
   performing the connection, and this diligence is largely uncontrollable.
   [0008]      Current "recommended practice" for aseptic IV line maintenance and IV drug
20 delivery practices require adherence to a stepwise process referred to as "SASH." During the
   first step of the process, the clinician cleans/disinfects (generally with an alcohol swab) the
   VAD connector. Second, a syringe containing saline is used to flush the IV line or catheter
   (Saline flush), and then the VAD connector is disinfected a second time. Third, the fluid or
   pharmaceutical therapy is administered through the IV line or catheter (Administer therapy),
25 the VAD connector is disinfected a third time, followed by a second Saline flush step. The
   final step, which is dependent upon the patient's need and institutional policy, is a final
   disinfection of the VAD connector followed by a Heparin lock step, where a small amount of
   heparin is injected into the IV line or catheter to prevent the formation of thrombi or blood
   clots. At the conclusion of this tedious stepwise process, the inlet port of the VAD connector
30 is left exposed to the environment. This "recommended practice" requires disinfecting the
   VAD connector after each step, and makes IV line maintenance a very burdensome and time
   consuming process. Because the process is so cumbersome, clinicians very rarely implement

                                                    3
   this "recommended practice" in its entirety, and, thus, patients are exposed to the risk of
   contracting CRBSIs. Microorganisms populate exposed connector inlet surfaces, and, when
   the "recommended practice" is not adhered to, the microorganisms can enter the IV line
   during flushing.     Furthermore, blood reflux into the IV line or catheter can cause clot
 5 formation inside the lines, and microorganisms from the connector inlet surfaces can colonize
   blood clots inside the lines and infect the patients during flushing.
   [0009]      A product currently available that aims to combat the problems associated with
   contaminated VAD connectors is the SwabCap@. This device disinfects a VAD connectors
   by covering the connector and protecting it from touch and airborne contamination after the
10 cap has been applied. As the SwabCap@ is twisted onto VAD connector, a foam pad inside
   the cap is compressed, releasing the isopropyl alcohol that bathes and passively disinfects the
   top and threads of the VAD connector while the cap is in place.             Friction between the
   SwabCap@ and VAD connector is essential to ensure proper swabbing and disinfecting as the
   twisting action helps focus the alcohol on the targeted areas. However, for several reasons,
15 the SwabCap@ falls short of accomplishing the desired goal of effectively cleaning and
   disinfecting the VAD connector. First, the caps do not always engage the threads on the
   catheter hub, so that friction during swabbing may be inefficient. Additionally, the caps are
   small, and thus, may result in touch contamination when they are being removed. Despite the
   fact that the caps are bright orange in color so that compliance can be visually confirmed,
20 because the SwabCap@ is a separate entity, only the most diligent clinician will utilize the cap
   after every step of the flush process. Thus, the cap does not ensure compliance with aseptic
   technique.
   [0010]      Substantial morbid and mortal risk is, therefore, associated with a number of
   routine procedures defined primarily by the uncontrollable diligence of the clinician
25 administering the therapy. Unfortunately, the result is that a substantial degree of unnecessary
   risk and injury, in the form of CRBSIs, to patients occurs. There is a need, therefore, for a
   flush syringe assembly that promotes compliance with aseptic technique by eliminating the
   additional swabbing and disinfecting steps.
                                              SUMMARY
30 [0011]      Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a syringe assembly for use in
   flush applications.    Syringe assemblies according to a first aspect of the present invention
   include a plunger rod, a syringe barrel, and a reservoir collar that permit disinfection of the

                                                     4
   hub of a VAD connector upon connection to the device.                The features providing for
   disinfection allow the clinician to substantially achieve the effects of aseptic techniques
   without the need for added swabbing steps and diligence on the part of the clinician.
   [0012]       In one or more embodiments, the disinfection is provided by a reservoir collar that
 5 contains a disinfectant housed within a compartment in the reservoir collar.
   [0013]       In one variant, the reservoir collar contains an absorbent material that surrounds a
   tip that is adapted for connection to a VAD. The absorbent material absorbs the disinfectant,
   and, upon connection to the hub of a VAD connector, compresses toward the syringe barrel
   while disinfecting the hub. The disinfectant can be a fluid, a foam, or a gel.
10 [0014]       In a specific embodiment, the reservoir collar surrounds a connector collar adapted
   for connection to the hub of a VAD connector. In another specific embodiment, the connector
   collar is a luer connector.
   [0015]       A second aspect of the present invention pertains to a method of disinfecting a
   VAD connector. The method according to one embodiment comprises connecting a flush
15 syringe assembly to the hub of a VAD connector, wherein the flush syringe assembly includes
   a plunger rod, a syringe barrel, and a reservoir collar that permits disinfection of the hub of a
   VAD connector upon connection to the device.               The method allows the clinician to
   substantially achieve the effects of aseptic techniques without the need for added swabbing
   steps and diligence on the part of the clinician.
20 [0016]       In a specific embodiment, the method comprises connecting a flush syringe
   assembly to a hub of the vascular access device, wherein connecting includes frictionally
   engaging a reservoir having a collar and a tip on the flush syringe with the hub vascular
   access device such that the hub contacts an antimicrobial agent contained within the reservoir.
   As noted above, the reservoir can contain an absorbent material, and the reservoir can include
25 a first tip and a second tip, and the flush syringe includes a seal covering the reservoir and the
   first and second tip. In such construction, upon connecting the flush syringe assembly to the
   hub, the seal is broken to expose the second tip to the antimicrobial agent. The reservoir
   further can comprises threads that engage threads on the hub, and connecting occurs by
   engaging the threads on the hub and the reservoir by twisting the vascular access device with
30 respect to the flush syringe. Upon connection, the hub contacts the antimicrobial agent and
   the absorbent material.

                                                     5
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    [0017]      FIGURE 1 is a perspective view of a flush syringe assembly according to an
    embodiment of the present invention;
    [0018]      FIGURE 2 is an enlarged partially cross-sectioned side elevation view of the
 5  assembled reservoir collar attached to flush syringe assembly of FIG. 1;
    [0019]      FIGURE 3 is an enlarged partially cross-sectioned side elevation view of the
    components of the reservoir collar which attaches to the flush syringe assembly of FIG. 1;
    [0020]      FIGURE 4 is an enlarged partially cross-sectioned side elevation view of the
    assembled reservoir collar for attachment to flush syringe assembly of FIG. 1;
10  [0021]      FIGURE 5 is an enlarged partially cross-sectioned side elevation view of the
    assembled reservoir collar being attached to the flush syringe assembly of FIG. 1;
    [0022]      FIGURE 6 is an enlarged partially cross-sectioned side elevation view of the
    reservoir collar attached to the flush syringe assembly of FIG.1, illustrating how the first tip of
    the syringe barrel attaches interlocks with the second tip of the reservoir collar;
15  [0023]      FIGURE 7 is an enlarged partially cross-sectioned side elevation view of the
    reservoir collar illustrating removal of the seal over the end of the reservoir collar for
    attachment to a VAD;
    [0024]      FIGURE 8 is an enlarged partially cross-sectioned side elevation view of the
    reservoir collar illustrating attachment of the reservoir collar to the hub of a VAD connector;
20  [0025]      FIGURE 9 is an enlarged partially cross-section side elevation view of the
    reservoir collar illustrating compression of the absorbent material upon connection to the hub
    of a VAD connector;
    [0026]      FIGURE 10 is an enlarged partially cross-sectioned side elevation view of an
    alternative embodiment of the reservoir collar; and
25  [0027]      FIGURE 11 is an enlarged partially cross-sectioned side elevation view of the
    flush syringe assembly, illustrating an alternative embodiment of the reservoir collar for
    connection to the syringe assembly of FIG. 1.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
30  [0028]      Before describing several exemplary embodiments of the invention, it is to be
    understood that the invention is not limited to the details of construction or process steps set

                                                    6
   forth in the following description. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of
   being practiced or being carried out in various ways.
   [0029]      With respect to terms used in this disclosure, the following definitions are
   provided.
 5 [0030]      Reference to "flush syringe assembly" includes syringes that are indicated for use
   in the flushing of VADs. The practice of flushing ensures and maintains catheter patency and
   helps prevent the mixing of incompatible pharmaceuticals.
   [0031]      As used herein, the use of "a," "an," and "the" includes the singular and plural.
   [0032]      As used herein, the term "catheter related bloodstream infection" or "CRBSI"
10 refers to any infection that results from the presence of a catheter or IV line.
   [0033]      As used herein, the term "microorganism" refers to a microbe or organism that is
   unicellular or lives in a colony of cellular organisms. Microorganisms are very diverse; they
   include, but are not limited to bacteria, fungi, archaea, and protozoans. Microorganisms are
   often the cause of CRBSIs.        The most common microorganisms associated with CRBSIs
15 include, but are not limited to, Staphylococcus aureus and epidermis, Enterococcus faecalis,
   Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Candida albicans.
   [0034]      As used herein, the terms "antimicrobial agent" or "antimicrobial" refers to
   substances that kill or inhibit the growth of microorganisms such as bacteria, fungi, archaea,
   or protozoans. Antimicrobial agents either kill microbes, or prevent the growth of microbes.
20 [0035]      As used herein, the term "disinfectant" refers to antimicrobial substances that are
   used on non-living objects or outside the body, e.g., on the skin.
   [0036]      In one or more embodiments, disinfectants or antimicrobial agent include, but are
   not limited to, ethanol, 2-propanol, butanol, methylparaben, ethylparaben, propylparaben,
   propyl gallate, butylated hydroxyanisole           (BHA), butylated hydroxytoluene,       t-butyl
25 hydroquinone, chloroxylenol, chlorohexidine, dichlorobenzyl alcohol, dehydroacetic acid,
   hexetidine, triclosan, hydrogen peroxide, colloidal silver, and mixtures thereof.
   [0037]      As used herein, the term "absorbent material" refers to a material having capacity
   or tendency to absorb or soak up another substance.           In one or more embodiments, the
   absorbent material has a tendency to absorb a disinfectant or antimicrobial.           Absorbent
30 materials may include sponges, absorbent cottons, other absorbent fabrics, and synthetic
   polymer matrices.

                                                   7
   [0038]       As used herein, the term "Luer connector" refers to a connection collar that is the
   standard way of attaching syringes, catheters, hubbed needles, IV tubes, etc. to each other.
   The Luer connector consists of male and female interlocking tubes, slightly tapered to hold
   together better with even just a simple pressure/twist fit.     Luer connectors can optionally
 5 include an additional outer rim of threading, allowing them to be more secure.        The Luer
   connector male end is generally associated with a flush syringe and can interlock and connect
   to the female end located on the VAD. A Luer connector comprises a distal end, a proximal
   end, an irregularly shaped outer wall, a profiled center passageway for fluid communication
   from the chamber of the barrel of a syringe to the hub of a VAD. A Luer connector also has a
10 distal end channel that releasably attaches the Luer connector to the hub of a VAD, and a
   proximal end channel that releasably attaches the Luer connector to the barrel of a syringe.
   [0039]       Provided are syringe assemblies that include a plunger rod and a syringe barrel,
   that incorporate an element for disinfecting the hub of a VAD.         The assembled syringe
   assembly is shown in Figures 1 and 2, with the components shown separately in Figures 3-9.
15 Alternative embodiments of the present invention are shown in Figures 10-11 Referring to
   Figures 1-3, a syringe assembly 20 according to the present invention generally comprises a
   barrel 21, including a side wall having an inside surface defining a chamber for retaining
   fluid. The barrel 21 further includes an open proximal end 27 and a distal end 28 having a
   distal wall 29 with an elongated first tip 31 extending distally therefrom and having a first
20 passageway 32 therethrough in fluid communication with the chamber, the tip adapted for
   connection to a reservoir collar 40. The distal wall 29 may comprise a plurality of threads for
   attachment to the reservoir collar 40.
   [0040]       An plunger rod 37 includes distal portion 38 and a proximal portion 39, the
   plunger rod further comprising a distal end including a stopper slidably positioned in fluid
25 tight engagement with the inside surface of the barrel for drawing fluid into and driving fluid
   out of the chamber by movement of the stopper relative to the barrel, the plunger rod 37
   extending outwardly from the open proximal end 27 of the barrel, the stopper having a distal
   surface.
   [0041]       A reservoir collar 40 mounted on the distal end 28 of the barrel and surrounding
30 the first tip 31, the reservoir collar 40 including at least one side wall 41 having an inside
   surface 42 defining a compartment 43 containing a disinfectant or antimicrobial agent, a
   sealed distal end 45, and a proximal end 46 adjacent the distal wall 29 of the barrel, with a

                                                    8
   second tip 51 extending distally therefrom having a second passageway 52 therethrough in
   fluid communication with said first passageway 32, the second tip 51 adapted for connection
   to a hub of a vascular access device. The reservoir collar 40 may comprise a plurality of
   threads 47 on the inside surface for connection to a vascular access device. The reservoir
 5 collar 40 may comprise a plurality of threads on the proximal end for attachment to the distal
   wall 29 of the barrel. Referring to Figure 5, upon manufacture, the flush syringe assembly 20
   can be provided with the reservoir collar 40 partially threaded at the proximal end 46 onto the
   distal wall 29 of the barrel. The seal 49, is not yet pierced. Referring to Figure 6, to activate
   the reservoir collar 40, the clinician can twist the proximal end 46 onto the distal wall 29 such
10 that the threads tightly interlock and the first tip 31 pierces the seal 49. The first tip 31 then
   becomes interlocked with the second tip 51, and the first passageway 32 and the second
   passageway 52 become one integral passageway for fluid communication from the barrel 21
   to a VAD.
   [0042]      The reservoir collar 40 may comprise an absorbent material 44 surrounding the
15 second tip 51 for soaking up the disinfectant or antimicrobial agent that is housed within the
   compartment 43. The disinfectant or antimicrobial agent can be a fluid or a gel selected from
   the group consisting of selected from the group consisting of ethanol, 2-propanol, butanol,
   methylparaben, ethylparaben, propylparaben, propyl gallate, butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA),
   butylated      hydroxytoluene,       t-butyl-hydroquinone,     chloroxylenol,    chlorohexidine,
20 dichlorobenzyl     alcohol, dehydroacetic acid, hexetidine, triclosan, hydrogen peroxide,
   colloidal silver, and mixtures thereof.
   [0043]      The sealed distal end 45 of the reservoir collar 40 may comprise a removable seal
   48. The removable seal 48 can comprise an aluminum peal back top. The seal can be a
   plastic sealed aluminum, and can be chemically-resistant, light-blocking, non-permeable, or
25 sterile.
   [0044]      The reservoir collar 40 may comprise an aluminum lining adhered to the inside
   surface 42 of at least one side wall 41. The aluminum lining can prevent degradation of the
   disinfectant or antimicrobial agent, and can also provide a mechanism for ensuring
   compliance with aseptic conditions.
30 [0045]      The reservoir collar 40 may be removable from the syringe assembly 20. When
   removable, the reservoir collar 40 comprises a pierceable seal 49 on the proximal end 46 of
   the reservoir collar 40. The pierceable seal 49 can be pierced by the first tip 31 upon

                                                    9
   connection to the distal wall 29 of the barrel.        The pierceable seal 49 can comprise an
   aluminum seal. The aluminum seal can be a plastic sealed aluminum, and can be chemically
   resistant, light-blocking, non-permeable, or sterile.
   [0046]       In an embodiment, the reservoir collar 40 surrounds a connector collar adapted for
 5 connection to the hub of the vascular access device.            The connector collar can further
   comprise an absorbent material 44 for soaking up the disinfectant or antimicrobial agent
   dispersed within the connector collar. The disinfectant or antimicrobial agent can be a fluid or
   a gel. In a further embodiment, the reservoir collar 40 surrounds a connector collar adapted
   for connection to the hub of the vascular access devices, wherein the connector collar is a
10 Luer connector.
   [0047]       Referring to Figures 4-6, in operation, the assembled, removable reservoir collar
   40 is attached via the proximal end 46 to the distal wall 29 of the syringe barrel 21 such that
   the proximal end 46 of the reservoir collar 40 is adjacent to the distal wall 29 of the syringe
   barrel 21. The first tip 31 interlocks with the second tip 51 such that the first passageway 32
15 and the second passageway 52 become one integral passageway for fluid communication to a
   vascular access device. Referring to Figure 5, upon manufacture, the flush syringe assembly
   20 can be provided with the reservoir collar 40 partially threaded at the proximal end 46 onto
   the distal wall 29 of the barrel 21. The seal 49 is not yet pierced. Referring to Figure 6, to
   activate the reservoir collar 40, the clinician can twist the proximal end 46 onto the distal wall
20 29 such that the threads tightly interlock and the first tip 31 pierces the seal 49. The first tip
   31 then becomes interlocked with the second tip 51, and the first passageway 32 and the
   second passageway 52 become one integral passageway for fluid communication from the
   barrel 21 to a VAD. Once the reservoir collar 40 has been activated by threading it onto the
   distal wall 29, it is now ready to be used to disinfect the hub of a VAD.
25 [0048]       The syringe assembly 20 is filled with flush solution using known methods.
   Additionally, the syringe assembly 20 may be provided pre-filled from the manufacturer or
   supplier.    The flush solution may be any solution intended for flushing or maintaining
   performance of VAD's. It is preferred that the flush solution be selected from the group
   consisting of saline flush solution and heparin lock flush solution. These solutions are known
30 in the art and are readily available. An example of a saline flush solution includes, but is not
   limited to, 0.9% sodium chloride USP for injection. An example of a heparin lock flush
   solution includes but is not limited to 0.9% sodium chloride with 100 USP units of heparin

                                                   10
   sodium per mL or 10 USP units of heparin sodium per mL. When the first tip 31 interlocks
   with the second tip 51, the flush solution is communicated from the barrel 21 through the now
   integral first passageway 32 and second passageway 52 to a vascular access device.
   [0049]      The syringe assembly 20 is now ready for use in flushing a vascular access device
 5 such as a catheter or IV set. IV sets can be very complex and may include multiple injection
   ports, valves, and/or other components. For the purpose of illustrating the present invention, a
   simplified IV set or catheter hub 60 is illustrated in Figures 8 and 9. The hub 60 includes a
   housing hollow interior and a septum 61 at its proximal end 62. A hollow IV line or catheter
   64 extends from the distal end 63 from the housing.       The IV site may be a valve having
10 structure for accepting the second tip 51 and being activated by the insertion of the second tip
   51 to establish fluid communication with the IV line or catheter 64.
   [0050]      There are two general classifications of VAD's, peripheral catheters and central
   venous catheters. Peripheral catheters are used to access veins in the peripheral extremities
   such as the hand and ann. Peripheral catheters are relatively short in length ranging from
15 about 14 mm to 48 mm in length, and are available in gauge sizes from about 16 to 24. It is
   believed that the most commonly used peripheral catheters are 20 gauge having an ID of
   about 0.81 mm (0.032 inch) and 22 gauge having an ID of about 0.66 mm (0.026 inch), and
   having a length of about 25mm to 32mm. As used herein, the term "peripheral catheter" is
   intended to refer to a 20 or 22 gauge catheter having a length of about 25mm. Central venous
20 catheters are substantially longer than peripheral catheters and are inserted in the patient and
   terminate near the heart.
   [0051]      Referring to Figures 7-9, the syringe assembly 20 when connected with reservoir
   collar 40 has a second tip 51 that is rendered antimicrobial because it is surrounded by an
   absorbent material 44 that soaks up disinfectant or antimicrobial agent contained within
25 compartment 43. The now antimicrobial tip 51 can be connected to a vascular access device.
   The seal 48 is removed from the distal end 45 of the reservoir collar 40, exposing the second
   tip 51. As the syringe assembly 20 is connected to the hub of a vascular access device 60, the
   absorbent material 44 compresses creating friction.        The disinfecting properties of the
   disinfectant or antimicrobial agent contained within the chamber 43 that has been absorbed by
30 absorbent material 44, disinfect the hub 60, thus ensuring compliance with aseptic technique.
   The friction created by the compression of the absorbent material 44 is necessary to provide
   disinfection of the hub 60. Once the connection of the syringe assembly 20 to the hub 60 is

                                                  11
   completed, the hub is properly disinfected, and fluid communication from the barrel 21 of the
   syringe to the vascular access device can occur. Fluid is drawn from the barrel 21 through the
   integral first passageway 32 and second passageway 52 through the hub 60 and into the IV or
   catheter 64. Because of the presence of the reservoir collar 40, fluid communication through
 5 a vascular access device and into a patient is conducted under aseptic conditions without any
   additional swabbing steps and diligence on the part of the clinician.
   [0052]      Figure 10 illustrates an alternative embodiment of the reservoir collar 40.
   Additional space 70 between the plurality of threads 47 and the proximal end 46, allows the
   clinician to fully rotate the syringe assembly 20 and completely disinfect the hub 60 of a
10 vascular access device upon connection of the syringe assembly 20 to the hub 60.
   [0053]      Figure 11 illustrates another embodiment of the syringe assembly 20.            The
   reservoir collar 40 can be integrally formed on the distal wall 29 of the syringe barrel 21 with
   a second tip 51 with a second passageway 52 extending therethrough for fluid communication
   to the vascular access device. A seal 48 will contain the disinfectant or antimicrobial agent
15 within the chamber 43 until the seal 48 is removed and the syringe assembly 20 is connected
   to a vascular access device.     The absorbent material 44 will soak up the disinfectant or
   antimicrobial agent and will disinfect the hub of a vascular access device upon connection.
   This alternative syringe assembly is simpler to manufacture compared to the assembly of
   FIGs. 1-3. However, extractables may increase.
20 [0054]      Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular
   embodiments, it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the
   principles and applications of the present invention.     It is therefore to be understood that
   numerous modifications may be made to the illustrative embodiments and that other
   arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the present
25 invention as disclosed.

                                            12
                                        CLAIMS
 1.     A flush syringe assembly comprising:
        a barrel including a side wall having an inside surface defining a chamber for
retaining fluid, an open proximal end, a distal end including a distal wall with a tip
extending    distally   therefrom   having    a   passageway     therethrough   in fluid
communication with said chamber;
        a plunger rod disposed within the barrel, the plunger rod comprising a distal
portion and a proximal portion, the plunger rod further comprising a distal end
including a stopper slidably positioned in fluid-tight engagement with the inside
surface of the barrel for drawing fluid into and driving fluid out of the chamber by
movement of the stopper relative to the barrel, the plunger rod extending outwardly
from the open proximal end of the barrel, the stopper having a
distal surface; and
        the reservoir collar integrally formed on the distal wall of the barrel and
surrounding the tip, the reservoir collar including at least one side wall having an
inside surface defining a compartment containing a disinfectant or antimicrobial
agent, a sealed distal end, a proximal end adjacent the distal wall of the barrel.
2.      The flush syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the reservoir collar has a
plurality of threads on the inside surface for connection to the hub of the vascular
access device.
3.      The flush syringe assembly of any one of claims 1 to 2, wherein the reservoir
collar further comprises an absorbent material for soaking up the disinfectant or
antimicrobial agent.
4.      The flush syringe assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
disinfectant or antimicrobial agent is a fluid, foam or gel.
5.      The flush syringe assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
disinfectant or antimicrobial agent is selected from the group consisting of ethanol,
2-propanol, butanol, methylparaben, ethylparaben, propylparaben, propyl gallate,
butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), butylated hydroxytoluene, t-butyl-hydroquinone,
chloroxylenol,     chlorohexidine,   dichlorobenzyl     alcohol,    dehydroacetic  acid,
hexetidine, triclosan, hydrogen peroxide, colloidal silver, and mixtures thereof.
6.      The flush syringe assembly of any one of the preceding claims, further
comprising a removable seal adhered to the distal end of the reservoir collar.

                                           13
7.      The flush syringe assembly of claim 6, wherein the removable seal comprises
an aluminum or multi-layer polymer film peel back top.
8.      The flush syringe assembly of any one of the preceding claims, further
comprising an aluminum lining adhered to the inside surface of the at least one side
wall of the reservoir collar.
9.      The flush syringe assembly of claim 3, wherein the absorbent material
compresses toward the proximal end of the reservoir collar upon connection to a hub
of the vascular access device.
10.     The flush syringe assembly of claim 9, wherein the compression of the
absorbent material disinfects the vascular access device.
11.     The flush syringe assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
connection to a hub of the vascular access device disinfects the vascular access
device.
12.     A method of disinfecting a vascular access device, the method comprising:
connecting a flush syringe assembly of any of the preceding claims to a hub of the
vascular access device, wherein connecting includes frictionally engaging a reservoir
collar with the hub of the vascular access device such that the hub of the vascular
access device contacts an antimicrobial agent or disinfectant contained within the
reservoir collar.
13.     The method of claim 12, wherein the reservoir collar further contains an
absorbent material.
14.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the reservoir collar
further comprises threads that engage threads on the hub, and connecting occurs by
engaging the threads on the hub and the reservoir collar by twisting the vascular
access device with respect to the flush syringe.
15.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein upon connection,
the hub contacts the antimicrobial agent or disinfectant and the absorbent material.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
