ABSTRACT
A support arm assembly for a fold-down clothes line includes a rotating lock engaging
with a rotating support arm. The lock has differing profiles to either allow the arm to
rotate past it in both directions, or in just one direction. The profile presented to the
arm is advanced by a spring. This allows the line to be locked in a raised position
merely by raising it, raising it again will release the locking mechanism allowing the line
to be folded down.

                  Support Arm Assembly for a Fold-down Clothes Line
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      The present invention relates to support arm assembly for a fold-down
clothes line.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0002]      Fold down clothes lines traditionally have a separate support for either side
of the frame, usually with a simple latching mechanism.       Quite often the latch is spring
activated or a simple catch. To erect or lower a clothes line both latches need to be
engaged or disengaged. This can be cumbersome to achieve, particularly when the
latch is loaded by the weight of the clothes line frame. Quite often after a first latch has
been engaged or disengaged and the user attempts to engage or disengage the
second latch, the first latch will disengage or engage itself again.
[0003]      Existing designs often require the user to listen to determine when the lock
has engaged. If the user lifts too far the lock may disengage again leading to an
unsafe situation where the line will fall down again.
[0004]      The applicant has identified the need for a simple latching mechanism for a
clothes line which can be easily operated, particularly where both latches can be
operated simultaneously.
[0005]      The object of this invention is to provide a support arm assembly to alleviate
the above problem, or at least provide the public with a useful alternative.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]      In a first aspect the invention provides a support arm assembly for a clothes
line, comprising a pivotally mounted arm and a pivotally mounted lock, wherein the arm
and lock are mounted such that rotation of the arm will engage the arm with the lock,
and wherein the lock has a first profile section that allows the arm to rotate freely past
the lock in a first and second direction and a second profile section that stops rotation
of the arm in a first direction past the lock.
[0007]      Preferably when rotation of the arm in the first direction has been stopped by
the second profile, the arm is rotatable in the second direction to disengage the arm

from the lock.
[0008]      In preference the invention further provides a spring to rotate the lock to a
predefined first position when the arm has disengaged from the lock and wherein when
the lock is in the first predefined position the first profile is positioned to engage with
the arm thereby allowing the arm to rotate past the lock in the first direction.
[0009]      Preferably when the arm has rotated past the lock in the first direction, the
spring rotates the lock to a second predefined position and wherein when the lock is in
the second predefined position the first profile is positioned to engage with the arm
thereby allowing the arm to rotate past the lock in the second direction.            ...
[0010]      It should be noted that any one of the aspects mentioned above may include
any of the features of any of the other aspects mentioned above and may include any
of the features of any of the embodiments described below as appropriate.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0011]      Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be
discerned from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information
for those skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to
be regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any
way. The Detailed Description will make reference to a number of drawings as follows.
[0012]      Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a clothes line support assembly
according to the invention in the raised position.
[0013]      Figure 2 shows a perspective view of the clothes line support assembly in
the lowered position.
[0014]      Figure 3 shows a perspective view of the clothes line support assembly with
a cover removed to reveal the internal mechanism.
[0015]      Figures 4A to 4H show the movement of the internal mechanism of the as
the support arm of the clothes line support assembly is raised and lowered.
DRAWING COMPONENTS
[0016]      The drawings include the following integers.

10          clothes line support assembly
12, 13      outer casing halves
14          fasteners
20          support arm
21          arm rotation
22          attachment holes
24          arm pivot
26, 27      rounded corner
28          convex end
30          rotating lock
31          lock rotation
32          lock pivot
34          concave side
36          concave lock end
38, 39      end lobes
40          torsion spring
42          spring shoulder
44          spring elbow
46          spring wrist
48          spring end
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0017]      The following detailed description of the invention refers to the
accompanying drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers will be used
throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same and like
parts. Dimensions of certain parts shown in the drawings may have been modified
and/or exaggerated for the purposes of clarity or illustration.
[0018]      The present invention provides a simple but effective mechanism for
supporting an arm of a clothes line, eliminating the need for a separate support arm. A
locking mechanism operated by movement of the clothes line arm allows the clothes
line to be locked in an extended position or retracted. To raise or lower the line the
user need only raise the line to its highest point.
[0019]       A clothes line support assembly 10 incorporating the present invention is

shown in a perspective view in Figure with a support arm 20 in an extended position.
The support arm extends from between two outer casing halves 12 and 13 which
conceal the internal mechanism. The casing is held together by a series of fasteners
14, preferably rivets. The support arm 20 includes attachment holes 22 for fitting a
clothes line arm. The support arm assembly is shown in Figure 2 with the support arm
in a retracted position. The support arm can be easily rotated by hand about pivot 24
between the retracted and extended position. Moving the support arm around the
extended position engages or disengages a locking mechanism as discussed in detail
below.
[0020]      Figure 3 shows the support assembly with one of the outer casing halves
removed to reveal the internal mechanism with the support arm 20 locked in an
extended position.     In brief, the support arm 20 engages with a rotating lock 30 which
is biased towards or held in various positions by a torsion spring 40, thereby presenting
different profiles of the lock to the support arm to enable or disable rotation.  The
support arm 20 and the rotating lock 30 are supported respectively on pivots 24 and
32, separated by such a distance that the support arm will engage with the lock as the
support arm is rotated. The support arm 20 includes rounded corners 26, 27, and a
convex end 28 to ensure a smooth engagement with the lock as it rotates. The rotating
lock 30 also includes rounded features to ensure smooth engagement with the support
arm during rotation, including concave sides 34, end lobes 34 and concave lock end
36. The torsion spring 40 has 3 sections that interact with the lock as it rotates:
shoulder 42 (visible in Figure 4A), elbow 44 and wrist 46. As the lock rotates it
presents different profiles to the arm, the first profile corresponding to the concave
sides 34 allow the arm to rotate past the lock in either direction, the concave lock end
allows the arm to rotate in a first direction but not in a second, thereby holding the arm
in position. The spring end 48 is turned away from the lock to avoid interference. The
function of these various feature will be explained below.
[0021]      Figures 4A through 4H show the sequence of the support arm being raised
from a retracted position to being locked in an extended position, then being unlocked
and returned to the retracted position again.
[0022]      The support arm 20 starts in the retracted position as shown in Figure 4A
and hangs down vertically from the arm pivot 24. The rotating lock 30 is held in a
resting position ready to engage with the support arm by the spring 40 with spring wrist

42 and shoulder 44 acting on the concave side 34 of the lock on either side of its pivot
point 32.
[0023]      In Figure 4B the support arm 20 is being raised and rotates counter
clockwise about its pivot point 24 as per arrow 21. The support bar contacts the
concave side 34 of the rotating lock 30, first with its shoulder 26, then convex side 28
and shoulder 27, causing the lock to rotate clockwise slightly about its pivot point 32
as per arrow 3. Once the support arm 20 has passed the lock 30, the lock will return to
its resting position under the influence of spring 40 as shown in Figure 4C.
[0024]      Once the support arm 20 has been raised and the raising force is removed
(i.e. the user lets go of the clothes line) it will tend to fall down again as per Figure 4D
until the rounded corner 26 comes into contact with an end lobe 38 of the lock. This
position is maintained by the spring 40.
[0025]      In Figure 4E a load sufficient to overcome the force of the spring 40 has
been placed on the supporting arm 20, lowering it slightly. As the support arm lowers,
the shoulder 26 rotates the lock 30 to a locked position where the shoulder sits in the
concave lock end 36. The geometry of the arm 20 and lock 30 are such that further
lowering of the arm is not possible.
[0026]      To lower the support arm 20 it is first raised slightly as shown in Figure 4F.
Once the shoulder 26 has dislodged from the concave lock end 36, the lock 30 will be
free to rotate under the influence of the spring 40 until end lobe 38 lodges in spring
elbow 44. Again, the support arm 20 will be prevented from lowering, this time by
shoulder 36 of the arm engaging with end lobe 39 of the lock. This position however
can be readily overcome as it is only maintained by the torsional force of the spring 40.
[0027]      In Figure 4G sufficient downward force is applied to the support arm 20 to
overcome the spring 40, allowing the support arm to rotate and pass the lock. Once
the arm has cleared the lock it will be free to rotate until it comes to the retracted
position again as shown in Figure 4H and the lock returns under the influence of spring
40 to its resting position.
[0028]      The reader will now appreciate the present invention which provides a
simple but effective clothes line support mechanism. The mechanism allows the
clothes line to be locked in an extended position merely by lifting the clothes line,

                                               U
similarly a second lifting action will unlock the line allowing it to be lowered again.
[0029]      Further advantages and improvements may very well be made to the present
invention without deviating from its scope. Although the invention has been shown and
described in what is conceived to be the most practical and preferred embodiment, it is
recognized that departures may be made therefrom within the scope of the invention,
which is not to be limited to the details disclosed herein but is to be accorded the full
scope of the claims so as to embrace any and all equivalent devices and apparatus.
Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of the
common general knowledge in this field.
[0030]      In the present specification and claims (if any), the word "comprising" and its
derivatives including "comprises" and "comprise" include each of the stated integers
but does not exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.

CLAIMS
1.     A support arm assembly for a clothes line, comprising a pivotally mounted arm
and a pivotally mounted lock, wherein the arm and lock are mounted such that rotation
of the arm will engage the arm with the lock, and wherein the lock has a first profile
section that allows the arm to rotate freely past the lock in a first and second direction
and a second profile section that stops rotation of the arm in a first direction past the
lock; and
       wherein when rotation of the arm in the first direction has been stopped by the
second profile, the arm is rotatable in the second direction to disengage the arm from
the lock; and
       wherein the support arm assembly further comprises a spring to rotate the lock
to a predefined first position when the arm has disengaged from the lock and wherein
when the lock is in the first predefined position the first profile is positioned to engage
with the arm thereby allowing the arm to rotate past the lock in the first direction; and
       wherein when the arm has rotated past the lock in the first direction, the spring
rotates the lock to a second predefined position and wherein when the lock is in the
second predefined position the first profile is positioned to engage with the arm thereby
allowing the arm to rotate past the lock in the second direction.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
