  ABSTRACT
  Biomass (e.g., plant biomass, animal biomass, and municipal waste biomass) is processed to
  produce useful intermediates and products, such as hydroxy-carboxylic acids and hydroxy
  carboxylic acid derivatives. A method includes treating a reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or
5 cellulosic material with one or more enzymes and/or organisms (such as lactobacillus,
  Pediococcus, Rhizopus, Enterococcus) to produce an alpha, beta, gamma and/or delta
  hydroxycarboxylic acid (such as lactic acid, glycolic acid); and converting the alpha, beta,
  gamma and/or delta hydroxy-carboxylic acid to the product (such as esters, polymers, and
  copolymers).

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
                           PROCESSING BIOMASS TO OBTAIN
                            HYDROXYL-CARBOXYLIC ACIDS
             [0001]       This application incorporates by reference the full disclosure of the
             following co-pending provisional application: USSN 61/816,664,
             filed April 26, 2013.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             [0002]       Many potential lignocellulosic feedstocks are available today,
             including agricultural residues, woody biomass, municipal waste, oilseeds/cakes
             and seaweed, to name a few. At present, these materials are often under-utilized,
             being used, for example, as animal feed, biocompost materials, burned in a co
             generation facility or even landfilled.
             [0003]       Lignocellulosic biomass includes crystalline cellulose fibrils
             embedded in a hemicellulose matrix, surrounded by lignin. This produces a
             compact matrix that is difficult to access by enzymes and other chemical,
             biochemical and/or biological processes. Cellulosic biomass materials (e.g.,
             biomass material from which the lignin has been removed) is more accessible to
             enzymes and other conversion processes, but even so, naturally-occurring
             cellulosic materials often have low yields (relative to theoretical yields) when
             contacted with hydrolyzing enzymes. Lignocellulosic biomass is even more
             recalcitrant to enzyme attack. Furthermore, each type of lignocellulosic biomass
             has its own specific composition of cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin.
                                              SUMMARY
             [0004]       Generally, this invention relates to methods and processes for
             converting a material, such as a biomass feedstock, e.g., cellulosic, starchy or
             lignocellulosic materials, to useful products, for example, hydroxy-carboxylic
             acids (e.g., alpha, beta. gamma and delta hydroxy-carboxylic acids) and
             derivatives of hydroxy-carboxylic acids (e.g., esters). Such hydroxy-carboxylic
             acids can be poly-hydroxy-carboxylic acids, e.g. di-, tri-, tetra-, penta-, hexa
             hepta- and octa-hydroxy carboxylic acids. The poly-hydroxy-carboxylic acid
                                                    1

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             can be substituted with other groups, e. g. alkyl groups. The carbon chain of the
             carboxylic acid can be straight chained, branched, cyclic, or alicyclic.
             [0005]       In one aspect the invention relates to a method for making a product
             including treating a reduced recalcitrance biomass (e.g., lignocellulosic or
             cellulosic material) with one or more enzymes and/or organisms to produce a
             hydroxy-carboxylic acid (e.g., an alpha, beta, gamma or delta hydroxy-carboxylic
             acid) and converting the hydroxy-carboxylic acid to the product. Optionally, the
             feedstock is pretreated with at least one method selected from irradiation (e.g.,
             with an electron beam), sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis and steam explosion, for
             example, to reduce the recalcitrance of the lignocellulosic or cellulosic material.
             Some examples of hydroxy-carboxylic acids that can be produced and then
             further converted include glycolic acid, lactic acid, malic acid, citric acid, and
             tartaric acid( di substituted), 3-hydroxybutyric acid (beta substituted), 4
             hydroxybutyric acid (gamma substituted), 3 hydroxyvaleric acid (beta
             substituted), gluconic acid (tetra substituted at alpha, beta, gamma, and delta
             carbons with an additional hydroxy at the epsilon carbon).
             [0006]       In some implementation of the method, the hydroxy-carboxylic acid is
             converted chemically, for example, by converting lactic acid to esters by treating
             with an alcohol and an acid catalyst. Other methods of chemically converting that
             can be utilized include polymerization, isomerization, esterification, oxidation,
             reduction, disproportionation and combinations of these.
             [0007]       In some other implementation, the lignocellulosic or cellulosic
             material is treated with one of more enzymes to release one or more sugars; for
             example, to release glucose, xylose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, mannose,
             galactose, arabinose, fructose, dimers of these such as cellobiose, heterodimers of
             these such as sucrose, oligomers of these, and mixtures of these. Optionally,
             treating can further include (e.g., subsequently to releasing sugars) utilizing (e.g.,
             by contacting with the sugars and/or biomass) one or more organisms to produce
             the hydroxy-carboxylic acid. For example, the sugars can be fermented by a
             sugar fermenting organism to the hydroxyl acid. Sugars that are released from the
             biomass can be purified (e.g., prior to fermenting) by, for example, a method
             selected from electrodialysis, distillation, centrifugation, filtration, cation
             exchange chromatography and combinations of these in any order.
             [0008]       In some implementation, converting comprises polymerizing the lactic
             acid to a polymer (e.g., polymerizing in a melt such as without an added solvent).
                                                    2

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             For example, polymerizing methods can be selected from direct condensation of
             the lactic acid, azeotropic dehydrative condensation of the lactic acid, and
             dimerizing the lactic acid to lactide followed by ring opening polymerization of
             the lactide. The polymerization can be in a melt (e.g., without a solvent and
             above the melting point of the polymer) or can be in a solution (e.g., with an
             added solvent).
             [0009]       Optionally, when the polymerization method is direct condensation,
             the polymerization can include utilizing coupling agents and/or chain extenders
             to increase the molecular weight of the polymer. For example, the coupling
             agents and/or chain extenders can include triphosgene, carbonyl diimidazole,
             dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, diisocyanate, acid chlorides, acid anhydrides,
             epoxides, thiirane, oxazoline, orthoester, and mixtures of these. Alternatively,
             the polymer can have a co monomer which is a polycarboxylic acid or polyols or
             a combination of these.
             [0010]       Optionally, polymerizations can be done utilizing catalysts and/or
             promoters. For example, Lewis and Bronsted (protonic) acids can be used.
             Examples of the acids include H 3PO 4, H 2SO 4 , methane sulfonic acid, p-toluene
             sulfonic acid, NAFION@ NR 50 H+ form From DuPont, Wilmington DE, Acids
             supported on polymers, metals, Mg, Al, Ti, Zn, Sn, metal oxides, TiO 2, ZnO,
             GeO 2 , ZrO 2, SnO, SnO 2, Sb 20 3, metal halides, ZnCl 2, SnCl 2, SnC14, Mn(AcO) 2,
             Fe 2(LA) 3, Co(AcO) 2, Ni(AcO) 2, Cu(OA) 2, Zn(LA) 2 , Y(OA) 3, Al(i-PrO) 3,
             Ti(BuO) 4, TiO(acac) 2, (Bu) 2SnO, tin octoate, solvates of any of these and
             mixtures of these can be used.
             [0011]       The polymerizations or at least a portion of the polymerizations can be
             done at a temperature between about 100 and about 200 'C, such as between
             about 110 and about 170     0 C or between about 120 and about 160     0 C. Optionally
             at least a portion of the polymerizations can be performed under vacuum (e.g.,
             between about 0.1 mm Hg to 300 mm Hg).
             [0012]       In the implementations wherein the polymerization method includes
             dimerizing the lactic acid to lactide followed by ring opening polymerization of
             the lactide, the dimerization can include heating the lactic acid to between 100
             and 200   0 C under a vacuum of about 0.1 to about 100 mmHg. Optionally, the
             dimerization (e.g., dimerization reaction) can include utilizing a catalyst.
             Catalysts can, for example, include Sn octoate, Li carbonate, Zn diacetate
             dehydrate, Ti tetraisopropoxide, potassium carbonate, tin powder and mixtures of
                                                     3

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             these. Optionally, a ring opening polymerization catalyst is utilized. For example,
             the ring opening polymerization catalyst can be chosen from protonic acids,
             HBr, HCl, triflic acid, Lewis acids, ZnCl 2 , AlCl 3 , anions, potassium benzoate,
             potassium phenoxide, potassium t-butoxide, and zinc stearate, metals, Tin, zinc,
             aluminum, antimony, bismuth, lanthanide and other heavy metals, Tin (II) oxide
             and tin (II) octoate (e.g., 2-ethylhexanoate), tetra phenyl tin, tin (II) and (IV)
             halogenides, tin (II) acetylacetonoate, distannoxanes (e.g.,
             hexabutyldistannoxane, R 3 SnOSnR 3 where R groups are alkyl or aryl groups),
             Al(OiPr) 3 , other functionalized aluminum alkoxides (e.g., aluminum ethoxide,
             aluminum methoxide), ethyl zinc, lead (II) oxide, antimony octoate, bismuth
             octoate, rare earth catalysts, yttrium tris(methyl lactate), yttrium tris(2-N-N
             dimethylamino ethoxide), samarium tris(2-N-N-dimethylamino ethoxide),
             yttrium tris(trimethylsilyl methyl), lanthanum tris(2,2,6,6
             tetramethylheptanedionate), lanthanum tris(acetylacetonate), yttrium octoate,
             yttrium tris(acetylacetonate), yttrium tris(2,2,6,6-tetramethylheptanedionate),
             combinations of these (e.g., ethyl zinc/aluminum isopropoxide) and mixtures of
             these.
             [0013]       In the implementations wherein polymers are made from the lactic
             acid, the methods can further include blending the polymer with a second
             polymer. For example, a second polymer can include polyglycols, polyvinyl
             acetate, polyolefins, styrenic resins, polyacetals, poly(meth)acrylates,
             polycarbonate, polybutylene succinate, elastomers, polyurethanes, natural rubber,
             polybutadiene, neoprene, silicone, and combinations of these.
             [0014]       In other implementations wherein polymers are made from the lactic
             acid a co-monomer can be co-polymerized with the lactic acid or lactide For
             example, the co-monomer can include elastomeric units, lactones, glycolic acid,
             carbonates, morpholinediones, epoxides, 1,4- benzodioxepin-2,5-(3H)-dione
             glycosalicylide, 1,4- benzodioxepin-2,5-(3H, 3-methyl)-dione lactosalicylide,
             dibenzo-1,5 dioxacin-6-12-dione disalicylide, morpholine-2,5-dione, 1,4
             dioxane-2,5-dione glycolide, oxepane-2-one e-caprolactone, 1,3-dioxane-2-one
             trimethylene carconate, 2,2-dimethyltrimethylene carbonate, 1,5-dioxepane-2
             one, 1,4-dioxane-2-one p-dioxanone, gamma-butyrolactone, beta-butyrolactone,
             beta-me-delta-valerolactone, 1,4-dioxane-2,3-dione ethylene oxalate, 3
             [benzyloxycarbonyl methyl]-1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione, ethylene oxide, propylene
                                                    4

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             oxide, 5,5'(oxepane-2-one), 2,4,7,9-tetraoxa-spiro[5,5]undecane-3,8-dione Spiro
             bid-dimethylene caronate and mixtures of these.
             [0015]       In any implementation wherein polymers are made, the polymers can
             be combined with fillers (e.g., by extrusion and/or compression molding). For
             example, some fillers that can be used include silicates, layered silicates, polymer
             and organically modified layered silicate, synthetic mica, carbon, carbon fibers,
             glass fibers, boric acid, talc, montmorillonite, clay, starch, corn starch, wheat
             starch, cellulose fibers, paper, rayon, non-woven fibers, wood flours, whiskers of
             potassium titanate, whiskers of aluminum borate, 4,4'-thiodiphenol, glycerol and
             mixtures of these.
             [0016]       In any implementation wherein polymers are made, the method can
             further include branching and/or cross linking the polymer. For example, the
             polymers can be treated with a cross linking agent including 5,5'-bis(oxepane-2
             one)(bis- r -caprolactone)), spiro-bis-dimethylene carbonate, peroxides, dicumyl
             peroxide, benzoyl peroxide, unsaturated alcohols, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, 2
             butene-1,4-diol, unsaturated anhydrides, maleic anhydride, saturated epoxides,
             glycidyl methacrylate, irradiation and combinations of these. Optionally, a
             molecule (e.g., a polymer) can be grafted to the polymer. For example, grafting
             can be done treating the polymer with irradiation, peroxide, crossing agents,
             oxidants, heating or any method that can generate a cation, anion or radical on the
             polymer.
             [0017]       In any implementation wherein polymers are processed, processing
             can include injection molding, blow molding and thermoforming.
             [0018]       In any implementation wherein polymers are processed, the polymers
             can be combined with a dye and/or a fragrance. For example, dyes that can be
             used include blue3, blue 356, brown 1, orange 29, violet 26, violet 93, yellow 42,
             yellow 54, yellow 82 and combinations of these. Examples of fragrances include
             wood, evergreen, redwood, peppermint, cherry, strawberry, peach, lime,
             spearmint, cinnamon, anise, basil, bergamot, black pepper, camphor, chamomile,
             citronella, eucalyptus, pine, fir, geranium, ginger, grapefruit, jasmine, juniper
             berry, lavender, lemon, mandarin, marjoram, musk, myrrh, orange, patchouli,
             rose, rosemary, sage, sandalwood, tea tree, thyme, wintergreen, ylang ylang,
             vanilla, new car or mixtures of these fragrances. Fragrances can be used in any
             amount, for example, between about 0.005 % by weight and about 20 % by
                                                     5

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             weight (e.g., between about 0.1 % and about 5 wt. %, between about 0.25 wt.%
             and about 2.5 %).
             [0019]       In any implementation wherein polymers are processed, the polymer
             can be blended with a plasticizer. For example, plasticizers include triacetin,
             tributyl citrate, polyethylene glycol, GRINDSTED@ SOFT-N-SAFE (from
             Danisco, DuPont, Wilmington DE, diethyl bishydroxymethyl malonate) and
             mixtures of these.
             [0020]       In any of the implementations wherein polymers are made, the
             polymers can be processed or further processed by shaping, molding, carving,
             extruding and/or assembling the polymer into the product.
             [0021]       In another aspect, the invention relates to products made by the
             methods discussed above. For example, the products include a converted
             hydroxy-carboxylic acid wherein the hydroxy-carboxylic acid is produced by the
             fermentation of biomass derived sugars (e.g., glycolic acid, D-lactic acid and/or
             L-lactic acid, D-malic acid, L-malic, citric acid and D-tartaric acid, L-tartaric acid
             and meso-tartaric acid). The biomass includes cellulosic and lignocellulosic
             materials and these can release sugars by acidic or enzymatic saccharification. In
             addition, the biomass can be treated, e.g., by irradiation.
             [0022]       The products, for example, include polymers, including one or more
             hydroxyl acids in the polymer backbone and optionally non-hydroxy carboxylic
             acids in the polymer backbone. Optionally the polymers can be cross-linked or
             graft co-polymers. Optionally the polymer can be, blended with a second
             polymer, blended with a plasticizer, blended with an elastomer, blended with a
             fragrance, blended with a dye, blended with a pigment, blended with a filler or
             blended with a combination of these.
             [0023]       In yet another embodiment, the invention relates to a system for
             polymerization including a reaction vessel, a screw extruder and a condenser.
             The system also includes a recirculating fluid flow path from an outlet of the
             reaction vessel to an inlet of the screw extruder and from an outlet of the screw
             extruder to an inlet to the reaction vessel. In addition, the system includes a fluid
             flow path from a second outlet of the reaction vessel to an inlet of the condenser.
             Optionally, the system further includes a vacuum pump in fluid connection with
             the second fluid flow path for producing a vacuum in the second fluid flow path.
             Also optionally, the system can include a control valve that in a first position
             provides a non-disrupted flow in the recirculating fluid flow path and in a second
                                                    6

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             position provides a second fluid flow path. In some implementations, the second
             fluid flow path is from the outlet of the reaction vessel to an inlet of a pelletizer.
             In other implementations, the second fluid flow path is from the outlet of the
             reaction vessel to the inlet of the extruder and from the outlet of the extruder to
             the inlet of a pelletizer.
             [0024]       Some of the products described herein, for example, lactic acid, can
             be produced by chemical methods. However, fermentative methods can be much
             more efficient, providing high biomass conversion, selective conversion and high
             production rates. In particular, fermentative methods can produce D or L isomers
             of hydroxy-carboxylic acids (e.g., lactic acid) at chiral purity of near 100% or
             mixtures of these isomers, whereas the chemical methods typically produce
             racemic mixtures of the D and L isomers. When a hydroxy-carboxylic acid is
             listed without its stereochemistry it is understood that D, L, meso, and/or
             mixtures are assumed.
             [0025]       The methods describe herein are also advantageous in that the starting
             materials (e.g., sugars) can be completely derived from biomass (e.g., cellulosic
             and lignocellulosic materials). In addition, some of the products described herein
             such as polymers of hydroxy-carboxylic acids (e.g., poly lactic acid) are
             compostable, biodegradable and/or recyclable. Therefore, the methods described
             herein can provide useful materials and products from renewable sources (e.g.,
             biomass) wherein the products themselves can be re-utilized or simply safely
             returned to the environment.
             [0026]       For example, some products that can be made by the methods,
             systems or equipment described herein include personal care items, tissues,
             towels, diapers, green packaging, compostable pots, consumer electronics, laptop
             casings, mobile phone casings, appliances, food packaging, disposable
             packaging, food containers, drink bottles, garbage bags, waste compostable bags,
             mulch films, controlled release matrices, controlled release containers, containers
             for fertilizers, containers for pesticides, containers for herbicides, containers for
             nutrients, containers for pharmaceuticals, containers for flavoring agents,
             containers for foods, shopping bags, general purpose film, high heat film, heat
             seal layer, surface coating, disposable tableware, plates, cups, forks, knives,
             spoons, sporks, bowls, automotive parts, panels, fabrics, under hood covers,
             carpet fibers, clothing fibers, fibers for garments, fibers for sportswear, fibers for
             footwear, surgical sutures, implants, scaffolding and drug delivery systems.
                                                     7

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             [0027]       Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from
             the following detailed description, and from the claims.
                               DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
             [0028]       The foregoing will be apparent from the following more particular
             description of example embodiments of the invention, as illustrated in the
             accompanying. The drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being
             placed upon illustrating embodiments of the present invention.
             [0029]       FIG. 1 is a flow diagram showing processes for manufacturing
             products from a biomass feedstock
             [0030]       FIG. 2 is a schematic showing some biochemical pathways for the
             fermentation of sugars to lactic acid.
             [0031]       FIG. 3 is a schematic showing some of the possible lactic acid derived
             products.
             [0032]       FIG. 4 is a schematic showing some possible chemical pathways for
             producing poly lactic acid.
             [0033]       FIG. 5 is a schematic view of a reaction system for polymerizing
             lactic acid.
             [0034]       FIG. 6A is a top view of a first embodiment of a reciprocating scraper.
             FIG. 6B is a front cut-out view of the first embodiment of a reciprocating scraper.
             FIG. 6C is a top view of a second embodiment of a reciprocating scraper. FIG.
             6D is a front cut-out view of the second embodiment of a reciprocating scraper.
             [0035]       FIG. 7 is a plot of lactic acid production in a 1.2 L Bioreactor.
             [0036]       FIG. 8 is a plot of lactic acid production in a 20 L Bioreactor.
             [0037]       FIG. 9 is a plot of GPC data for poly lactic acid.
             [0038]       FIG. 10 shows the chemical structures of some exemplary hydroxyl
             acids.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             [0039]       Using the equipment, methods and systems described herein,
             cellulosic and lignocellulosic feedstock materials, for example, that can be
             sourced from biomass (e.g., plant biomass, animal biomass, paper, and municipal
             waste biomass) and that are often readily available but difficult to process, can be
             turned into useful products such as sugars and hydroxy-carboxylic acids.
                                                      8

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             Included are equipment, methods and systems to chemically convert the primary
             products produced from the biomass to secondary product such as polymers (e.g.,
             poly lactic acid) and polymer derivatives (e.g., composites, elastomers and co
             polymers).
             [0040]      Biomass is a complex feedstock. For example, lignocellulosic
             materials include different combinations of cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin.
             Cellulose is a linear polymer of glucose. Hemicellulose is any of several
             heteropolymers, such as xylan, glucuronoxylan, arabinoxylan and xyloglucan.
             The primary sugar monomer present (e.g., present in the largest concentration) in
             hemicellulose is xylose, although other monomers such as mannose, galactose,
             rhamnose, arabinose and glucose are present. Although all lignins show variation
             in their composition, they have been described as an amorphous dendritic
             network polymer of phenyl propene units. The amounts of cellulose,
             hemicellulose and lignin in a specific biomass material depend on the source of
             the biomass material. For example, wood-derived biomass can be about 38-49%
             cellulose, 7-26% hemicellulose and 23-34% lignin depending on the type.
             Grasses typically are 33-38% cellulose, 24-32% hemicellulose and 17-22%
             lignin. Clearly lignocellulosic biomass constitutes a large class of substrates.
             [0041]      Enzymes and biomass-destroying organisms that break down biomass,
             such as the cellulose, hemicellulose and/or the lignin portions of the biomass as
             described above, contain or manufacture various cellulolytic enzymes
             (cellulases), ligninases, xylanases, hemicellulases or various small molecule
             biomass-destroying metabolites. A cellulosic substrate is initially hydrolyzed by
             endoglucanases at random locations producing oligomeric intermediates. These
             intermediates are then substrates for exo-splitting glucanases such as
             cellobiohydrolase to produce cellobiose from the ends of the cellulose polymer.
             Cellobiose is a water-soluble 1,4-linked dimer of glucose. Finally, cellobiase
             cleaves cellobiose to yield glucose. In the case of hemicellulose, a xylanase (e.g.,
             hemicellulase) acts on this biopolymer and releases xylose as one of the possible
             products.
             [0042]      FIG. 1 is a flow diagram showing processes for manufacturing is a
             flow diagram showing processes for manufacturing hydroxy-carboxylic acids
             from a feedstock (e.g., cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials). In an initial step
             (110) the method includes optionally mechanically treating a cellulosic and/or
             lignocellulosic feedstock, for example, to comminute/size reduce the feedstock.
                                                    9

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             Before and/or after this treatment, the feedstock can be treated with another
             physical treatment (112), for example, irradiation, sonication, steam explosion,
             oxidation, pyrolysis or combinations of these, to reduce or further reduce its
             recalcitrance. A sugar solution e.g., including glucose and/or xylose, is formed by
             saccharifying the feedstock (114). The saccharification can be, for example,
             accomplished efficiently by the addition of one or more enzymes, e.g., cellulases
             and/or xylanases (111) and/or one or more acids. A product or several products
             can be derived from the sugar solution, for example, by fermentation to a
             hydroxy-carboxylic acid (116). Following fermentation, the fermentation product
             (e.g., or products, or a subset of the fermentation products) can be purified or
             they can be further processed, for example, polymerized and/or isolated (124).
             Optionally, the sugar solution is a mixture of sugars and the organism selectively
             ferments only one of the sugars. The fermentation of only one of the sugars in a
             mixture can be advantageous as described in International App. No.
             PCT/US2014/021813 filed March 07, 2014, the entire disclosure of which is
             incorporated herein by reference. If desired, the steps of measuring lignin content
             (118) and setting or adjusting process parameters based on this measurement
             (120) can be performed at various stages of the process, for example, as described
             in U.S. Patent 8,415,122, issued April 9, 2013 the entire disclosure of which is
             incorporated herein by reference. Optionally, enzymes (e.g., in addition to
             cellulases and xylanases) can be added in step (114), for example, a glucose
             isomerase can be used to isomerize glucose to fructose. Some relevant uses of
             isomerase are discussed in PCT Application No. PCT/US12/71093, filed on
             December 20, 2012, published as WO 2013/096700 the entire disclosure of
             which is incorporated herein by reference.
             [0043]       In some embodiments the liquids after saccharification and/or
             fermentation can be treated to remove solids, for example, by centrifugation,
             filtration, screening, or rotary vacuum filtration. For example, some methods and
             equipment that can be used during or after saccharification are disclosed in
             International App. No. PCT/US2013/048963 filed July 1, 2013, and International
             App. No. PCT/US2014/021584, filed on March 7, 2014, the entire disclosures of
             which are incorporated herein by reference. In addition other separation
             techniques can be used on the liquids, for example, to remove ions and de
             colorize. For example, chromatography, simulated moving bed chromatograph
             and electrodialysis can be used to purify any of the solutions and/or suspensions
                                                     10

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             described herein. Some of these methods are discussed in International App. No.
             PCT/US2014/021638, filed on March 7, 2014, and International App. No.
             PCT/US2014/021815, filed on March 7, 2014, the entire disclosures of which are
             incorporated herein by reference. Solids that are removed during the processing
             can be utilized for energy co-generation, for example, as discussed in
             International App. No. PCT/US2014/021634, filed on March 7, 2014, the entire
             disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.
             [0044]         Optionally, the sugars released from biomass as described in FIG. 1,
             for example, glucose, xylose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, mannose, galactose,
             arabinose, homodimers and heterodimers of these (e.g., cellobiose, sucrose),
             trimers, oligomers and mixtures of these, can be fermented to hydroxy-carboxylic
             acids such as alpha, beta or gamma hydroxyl acids (e.g., lactic acid). In some
             embodiments, the saccharification and fermentation are done simultaneously, for
             example, using the thermophilic organism such as Bacillus coagulans MXL-9 as
             described by S.L. Walton in J. Ind. Microbiol. Biotechnol. (2012) pg. 823-830.
             [0045]         Hydroxy-carboxylic acids that can be produced by the methods
             systems and equipment described herein include, for example, of alpha, beta,
             gamma, and delta hydroxy-carboxylic acids. FIG. 10 shows the chemical
             structures of some hydroxyl acids. That is, if there is only one hydroxyl group it
             can be at any of the alpha, beta, gamma or delta carbon atoms in the carbon
             chain. The carbon chain may be a straight chain, branched or cyclic system. The
             hydroxy carboxylic acid may also include fatty acids of carbon chain lengths of
             10 to 22 with the hydroxy substituent at the alpha, beta, gamma, or delta carbon.
             [0046]         The hydroxy-carboxylic acids include those with multiple hydroxy
             substituents, or in alternative description a poly hydroxy substituted carboxylic
             acid. Such hydroxy-carboxylic acids can be poly-hydroxy-carboxylic acid, e.g.
             di-, tri-, tetra-, penta-, hexa- hepta- and octa-hydroxy substituted carboxylic acid.
             The carbon chain of the carboxylic acid may be straight chained, branched,
             cyclic, or alicyclic. Examples of this are tartaric acid and its isomers, dihydroxy
             3-methylpentanoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid, gluconic acid, glucuronic
             acid and the like.
             [0047]         For example, the hydroxy-carboxylic acids include glycolic
             acid, lactic acid (e.g., D, L or mixtures of D and L), malic acid, citric acid,
             tartaric acid, carmine, cyclobutyrol, 3-dehydroquinic acid, diethyl tartrate, 2,3
             dihydroxy-3-methylpentanoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid, glyceric acid,
                                                      11

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             homocitric acid, homoisocitric acid, beta-hydroxy beta-methylbutyric acid, 4
             hydroxy-4-methylpentanoic acid, hydroxybutyric acid, 2-hydroxybutyric acid,
             beta-hydroxybutyric acid, gamma-hydroxybutyric acid, alpha-hydroxyglutaric
             acid, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid, 3-hydroxypentanoic
             acid, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, hydroxypyruvic acid, gluconic acid, glucuronic
             acid, alpha, beta, gamma or delta-hydroxyvaleric acid; isocitric acid,
             isopropylmalic acid, kynurenic acid, mandelic acid, mevalonic acid, monatin,
             myriocin, pamoic acid, pantoic acid, prephenic acid, shikimic acid, tartronic acid,
             threonic acid, tropic acid, vanillylmandelic acid, xanthurenic acid and mixtures of
             these. For those hydroxy-carboxylic acids listed all of the stereo isomers are
             included in the list. For instance, tartaric acid includes, the D, L, and meso
             isomers and mixtures thereof.
             PREPARATION OF LACTIC ACID
             [0048]      Organisms can utilize a variety of metabolic pathways to convert the
             sugars to lactic acid, and some organisms selectively only can use specific
             pathways. Some organisms are homofermentative while others are
             heterofermentative. For example, some pathways are shown in FIG. 2 and are
             described in Journal of Biotechnology 156 (2011) 286-301. The pathway
             typically utilized by organisms fermenting glucose is the glycolytic pathway 2.
             Five carbon sugars, such as xylose, can utilize the heterofermentative
             phosphoketolase (PK) pathway. The PK pathway converts two of the 5 carbons in
             xylose to acetic acid on the remaining 3 to lactic acid (through pyruvate).
             Another possible pathway for five carbon sugars is the pentose phosphate
             (PP)/glycolytic pathway that only produces lactic acid.
             [0049]      Several organisms can be utilized to ferment the biomass derived
             sugars to lactic acid. The organisms can be, for example, lactic acid bacteria and
             fungi. Some specific examples include Rhizopus arrhizus,Rhizopus oryzae, (e.g.,
             NRRL- 395, ATCC 52311, NRRL 395, CBS 147.22, CBS 128.08, CBS 539.80,
             CBS 328.47, CBS 127.08, CBS 321.35, CBS 396.95, CBS 112.07, CBS 127.08,
             CBS 264.28), Enterococcusfaecalis(e.g. RKYl), Lactobacillus rhamnosus (e.g.
             ATCC 10863. ATCC 7469, CECT-288, NRRL B-445), Lactobacillushelveticus
             (e.g. ATCC 15009, R'21 1), Lactobacillus bulgaricus (e.g. NRRL B-548, ATCC
             8001, PTCC 1332), Lactobacilluscasei (e.g. NRRL B-441), Lactobacillus
            plantarum (e.g. ATCC 21028, TISTR No. 543, NCIMB 8826), Lactobacillus
                                                    12

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
            pentosus (e.g. ATCC 8041), Lactobacillus amylophilus (e.g. GV6), Lactobacillus
             delbrueckii (e.g. NCIMB 8130, TISTR No. 326, Uc-3, NRRL-B445, IFO 3202,
             ATCC 9649), Lactococcus lactis ssp. lactis (e.g. IFO 12007), Lactobacillus
            paracaseiNo. 8, Lactobacillusaimylovorus (ATCC 33620), Lactobacillussp.
             (e.g. RKY2), Lactobacilluscoryniformis ssp. torquens (e~g. ATCC 25600, B
             4390), Rhizopus sp. (e.g. MK-96-1196), Enterococcus casseliflavus, Lactococcus
             lactis (TISTR No. 1401), Lactobacilluscasei (TISTR No. 390), Lactobacillus
             thermophiles, Bacillus coagulans (e.g., MXL-9, 36D1, P4-102B), Enterococcus
             mundtii (e.g., QU 25), Lactobacillusdelbrueckii, Acremonium cellulose,
             Lactobacillusbifermentans, Corynebacterium glutamicum, L acetotolerans,L.
             acidifarinae,L. acidipiscis,L. acidophilus,L. agilis, L. algidus, L. alimentarius,
             L. amylolyticus, L. amylophilus, L. amylotrophicus, L. amylovorus, L. animalis,
             L. antri,L. apodemi, L. aviarius,L. bifermentans, L. brevis (e.g., B-4527), L.
             buchneri, L. camelliae, L. casei, L. catenaformis,L. ceti, L. coleohominis, L.
             collinoides, L. composti, L. concavus, L. coryniformis, L. crispatus, L. crustorum,
             L. curvatus, L. delbrueckii subsp. Delbrieckii (e.g., NRRL B-763, ATCC 9649),
             L. delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus,L. delbrueckii subsp. lactis (e.g., B-4525), L.
             dextrinicus, L. diolivorans,L. equi, L. equigenerosi,L. farraginis,L. farciminis,
             L. fermentum, L. fornicalis, L. fructivorans,L. frumenti, L. fuchuensis, L.
             gallinarum,L. gasseri,L. gastricus,L. ghanensis,L. graminis, L. hammesii, L.
             hamsteri, L. harbinensis,L. hayakitensis, L. helveticus, L. hilgardii,L.
             homohiochii, L. iners, L. ingluviei, L. intestinalis,L. jensenii, L. johnsonii, L.
             kalixensis, L. kefiranofaciens, L. kefiri, L. kimchii, L. kitasatonis, L. kunkeei, L.
             leichmannii, L. lindneri, L. malefermentans, L. mali, L. manihotivorans,L.
             mindensis, L. mucosae, L. murinus, L. nagelii, L. namurensis, L. nantensis, L.
             oligofermentans, L. oris, L. panis, L. pantheris,L. parabrevis,L. parabuchneri,
             L. paracollinoides,L. parafarraginis,L. parakefiri,L. paralimentarius,L.
            paraplantarum,L. pentosus, L. perolens, L. plantarum( e.g., ATCC 8014), L.
            pontis, L. psittaci, L. rennini, L. reuteri,L. rhamnosus,L. rimae, L. rogosae, L.
             rossiae, L. ruminis, L. saerimneri, L. sakei, L. salivarius,L. sanfranciscensis,L.
             satsumensis,L. secaliphilus,L. sharpeae,L. siliginis,L. spicheri, L. suebicus, L.
             thailandensis,L. ultunensis, L. vaccinostercus, L. vaginalis, L. versmoldensis, L.
             vini, L. vitulinus, L. zeae, L. zymae, and Pediococcuspentosaceus (ATCC
             25745).
                                                    13

WO 2014/176508                                                            PCT/US2014/035467
             [0050]      Alternatively, the microorganism used for converting sugars to
             hydroxy-carboxylic acids, including lactic acid, Lactobacilluscasei,
             Lactobacillus rhamnosus,Lactobacillus delbrueckii subspecies delbrueckii,
             Lactobacillusplantarum, Lactobacilluscoryniformis subspecies torquens,
             Lactobacilluspentosus, Lactobacillus brevis, Pediococcuspentosaceus,Rhizopus
             oryzae, Enterococcusfaecalis,Lactobacillushelveticus, Lactobacillus
             bulgaricus,Lactobacilluscasei, lactobacillusamylophilus and mixtures thereof
             [0051]      Using the methods, equipment and systems described herein, either D
             or L isomers of lactic acid at an optical purity of near 100% (e.g., at least about
             80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about
             99%) can be produced. Optionally, mixtures of the isomers can be produced in
             any ratio, for example, from 0% optical purity of any isomer up to 100% optical
             purity of any isomer. For example, the species Lactobacillusdelbrueckii (NRRL
             B445) is reported to produce a mixture of D and L isomers, Lactobacillus
             rhamnosus (CECT-28) is reported to produce the L isomer while Lactobacillus
             delbrueckii (IF 3202) is reported to produce the D isomer (Wang et al. in
             Bioresource Technology, June, 2010). As a further example, organisms that
             predominantly produce the L(+)-isomer are L. amylophilus, L. bavaricus,L.
             casei, L. maltaromicus and L. salivarius,while L. delbrueckii, L. jensenii and L.
             acidophilus produce the D(-)-isomer or mixtures of both.
             [0052]      Genetically modified organisms can also be utilized. For example,
             genetically modified organisms (e.g., lactobacillus, Escherichiacoli) that are
             modified to express either L-Lactate dehydrogenase or D-lactate dehydrogenase
             to produce more L-Lactic acid or D-Lactic acid, respectively. In addition, some
             yeasts and Escherichiacoli have been genetically modified to produce lactic acid
             from glucose and/or xylose.
             [0053]      Co-cultures of organisms, for example, chosen from organisms as
             described herein, can be used in the fermentations of sugars to hydroxy
             carboxylic acid in any combination. For example, two or more bacteria, yeasts
             and/or fungi can be combined with one or more sugars (e.g., glucose and/or
             xylose) where the organisms ferment the sugars together, selectively and/or
             sequentially. Optionally, one organism can be added first and the fermentation
             proceed for a time, for example, until it stops fermenting one or more of the
             sugars, and then a second organism can be added to further ferment the same
             sugar or ferment a different sugar. Co-cultures can also be utilized, for example,
                                                   14

WO 2014/176508                                                                      PCT/US2014/035467
             to tune in a desirable racemic mixture of D and L lactic acid by combining a D
             fermenting and L-fermenting organism in an appropriate ratio to form the
             targeted racemic mixture.
             [0054]       In some embodiments, fermentations utilize Lactobacillus.For
             example, the fermentation of biomass derived glucose by Lactobacillus can be
             very efficient (e.g., fast, selective and with high conversion). In other
             embodiments the production of lactic acid uses filamentous fungi. For example,
             Rhizopus species can ferment glucose aerobically to lactic acid. In addition, some
             fungi (e.g. R. oryzae and R. arrhizus) produce amylases so that the direct
             fermentation of starches can accomplished without adding external amylases.
             Finally some fungi (e.g., R. oryzae) can ferment xylose as well as glucose where
             most lactobacillusare not efficient in fermenting pentose sugars.
             [0055]       In some embodiments some additives (e.g., media components) can be
             added during the fermentation. For example, additives that can be utilized include
             yeast extract, rice bran, wheat bran, corn steep liquor, black strap molasses,
             casein hydrolyzate, vegetable extracts, corn steep solid, ram horn waste, peptides,
             peptone (e.g., bacto-peptone, polypeptone), pharmamedia, flower (e.g., wheat
             flour, soybean flour, cottonseed flour), malt extract, beef extract, tryptone,
             K 2 HPO 4 , KH 2 PO 4 , Na 2 HPO 4 , NaH 2 PO 4 , (NH4) 2 PO 4 , NH 4 0H, NH 4 NO, urea.
             ammonium citrate, nitrilotriacetic acid, MnSO45H 2 0, MgSO4-7H 20,
             CaCl 2 .2H 20, FeSO 4-7H 2 0, B-vitamins (e.g., thiamine, riboflavin, niacin,
             niacinamide, pantothenic acid, pyridoxine, pyridoxal, pyridoxamine, pyridoxine
             hydrochloride, biotin, folic acid), amino acids, sodium-L-glutamate, Na 2EDTA,
             sodium acetate, ZnSO 4 -7H 2 0, ammonium molybdate tetrahydrate, CuCl 2 , CoCl 2
             and CaCO 3. Addition of protease can also be beneficial during the fermentation.
             Optionally, surfactants such as TWEENTM80 and antibiotics such as
             chloramphenicol can also be beneficial. Additional carbon sources, for example,
             glucose, xylose and other sugars. Antifoaming compounds such as Antifoam 204
             can also be utilized.
             [0056]       In some embodiments the fermentation can take from about 8 hours to
             several days. For example, some batch fermentations can take from about 1 to
             about 20 days (e.g., about 1-10 days, about 3-6 days, about 8 hours to 48 hours,
             about 8 hours to 24 hours).
             [0057]       In some embodiments the temperature during the fermentation is
             controlled. For example, the temperature can be controlled between about 20 C
                                                        15

WO 2014/176508                                                                 PCT/US2014/035467
             and 50   0 C (e.g., between about 25 and 40     0 C,  between about 30 and 40  0 C,
             between about 35 and 40        0. C). In some cases, thermophilic organisms are
             utilized that operate efficiently above about 50 0 C, for example, between about
             50  0 C and 100    0. C (e.g., between about 50-90    0. C, between about 50 to 80  0. C,
             between about 50 to 70      0. C).
             [0058]       In some embodiments the pH is controlled, for example, by the
             addition of an acid or a base. The pH can be optionally controlled to be close to
             neutral (e.g., between about 4-8, between about 5-7, between about 5-6). Acids,
             for example, can be protic acids such as sulfuric, phosphoric, nitric,
             hydrochloride and acetic acids. Bases, for example, can include metal hydroxides
             (e.g., sodium and potassium hydroxide), ammonium hydroxide, and calcium
             carbonate. Phosphate and other buffers can also be utilized.
             [0059]       Fermentation methods include, for example, batch, fed batch, repeated
             batch or continuous reactors. Often batch methods can produce higher
             concentrations of lactic acids, while continuous methods can lead to higher
             productivities.
             [0060]       Fed batch methods can include adding media components and
             substrate (e.g., sugars from biomass) as they are depleted. Optionally, products,
             intermediates, side products and/or waste products, can be removed as they are
             produced. In addition, solvent (e.g., water) can be added or removed to maintain
             the optimal amount for the fermentation.
             [0061]       Options include cell-recycling. For example, using a hollow fiber
             membrane to separate cells from media components and products after
             fermentation is complete. The cells can then be re-utilized in repeated batches. In
             other optional methods, the cells can be supported, for example, as described in
             U.S. Application Serial No. 13/293,97 1, filed on Nov. 10, 2011 and U.S. Patent
             No. 8,377,668, issued Feb. 19, 2013, the entire disclosures of which are herein
             incorporated by reference.
             [0062]       The fermentation broth can be neutralized using calcium carbonate or
             calcium hydroxide which can form calcium lactate. Calcium lactate is soluble in
             water (e.g., about 7.9 g/100mL). The calcium lactate broth can then be filtered to
             remove cells and other insoluble materials. In addition the broth can be treated
             with a decolorizing agent. For example, the broth can be filtered through carbon.
             The broth is then concentrated, e.g., by evaporation of the water optionally under
             vacuum and/or mild heating, and can be crystallized or precipitated.
                                                        16

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             Acidification, for example, with sulfuric acid, releases the lactic acid back into
             solution which can be separated (e.g., filtered) from the insoluble calcium salts,
             e.g., calcium sulfate. Addition of calcium carbonate during the fermentation can
             also serve as a way to reduce product inhibition since the calcium lactate is not
             inhibitory or causes less product inhibition.
             [0063]        Optionally, reactive distillation can also be used to purify D-lactic
             acid and/or L-lactic acid. For example, methylation of D-lactic acid and/or L
             lactic acid provides the methyl ester which can be distillated to pure ester which
             can then be hydrolyzed to the acid and methanol that can be recycled.
             Esterification to other esters can also be used to facilitate the separation. For
             example, reactions with alcohols to the ethyl, propyl, butyl, hexyl, octyl or even
             esters with more than eight carbons can be formed and then extracted in a solvent
             or distilled.
             [0064]        Other alternative D-lactic acid and/or L-lactic acid separation
             technologies include adsorption, for example, on activated carbon,
             polyvinylpyridine, zeolite molecular sieves and ion exchange resins such as basic
             resins. Other methods include ultrafiltration and electrodialysis.
             [0065]        Precipitation or crystallization of calcium lactate by the addition of
             organic solvents is another method for purification. For example, alcohols (e.g.,
             ethanol, propanol, butanol, hexanol), ketones (e.g., acetone) can be utilized for
             this purpose.
             [0066]        Similar methods can be utilized for the preparation of other hydroxy
             carboxylic acids. For example, the fermentative methods and procedures can be
             applicable for any of the hydroxy-carboxylic acids described herein.
             LACTIC ACID USES
             [0067]        Lactic acid produced as described herein can be used, for example, in
             the food industry as a preservative, acidulant and flavoring agent. Lactic acid can
             be used in a wide range of food applications such as bakery products, beverages,
             meat products, confectionery, dairy products, salads, dressings, ready meals.
             Lactic acid in food products usually serves either as a pH regulator or as a
             preservative. It is can also be used as a flavoring agent, for example, imparting a
             sour taste to foods. Lactic acid can be used in meat, poultry and fish, for example,
             in the form of sodium or potassium lactate to extend shelf life, control pathogenic
             bacteria (e.g., improving food safety), enhance and protect meat flavor, improve
                                                      17

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             water binding capacity and reduce sodium. Lactic acid is also used as an acidity
             regulator in beverages such as soft drinks and fruit juices. Lactic acid is effective
             in preventing the spoilage of olives, gherkins, pearl onions and other vegetables
             preserved in brine. Lactic acid can also be used as a preservative and/or flavoring
             additive in salads and dressings. Lactic acid is also used in formulating hard
             boiled candy, fruit gums and other confectionery products. Lactic acid is used as
             an acidification agent for many dairy products for example, yogurts and cheeses.
             Lactic acid is a natural sourdough acid, and therefore, it can be used for direct
             acidification in the production of sourdough. Lactic acid is used to enhance a
             broad range of savory flavors, for example, in meat and dairy products.
             [0068]       Calcium lactate as produced by the methods described herein can also
             be added to sugar-free foods to prevent tooth decay. For example, in
             combinations with chewing gum containing xylitol, it increases the
             remineralization of tooth enamel. Calcium lactate is also added to fresh-cut fruits
             such as cantaloupes to extend their shelf life.
             [0069]       The biomass derived lactic acid as described herein can be used in
             pharmaceutical applications, for example, for pH-regulation, metal sequestration,
             as a chiral intermediate and as a natural body constituent in pharmaceutical
             products. Calcium lactate is commonly used as an antacid and also as a calcium
             supplement. Other salts of lactic acid, for example, salts containing Mg, Zn and
             Fe, can also be used as mineral supplements and fortifying agents.
             [0070]       Lactic acid as produced by the methods described herein can also be
             used in cleaning products. Lactic acid has descaling properties and is widely
             applied in household cleaning products. Also, lactic acid is used as a natural anti
             bacterial agent in disinfecting products.
             [0071]       The lactic acid produced by the methods described herein can be used
             in a wide variety of industrial processes where acidity is required and where its
             properties offer specific benefits. Examples are the manufacture of leather and
             textile products and computer disks, as well as car coatings.
             [0072]       The lactic acid as produced by the methods described herein can also
             be utilized as nutrient for animal feed. The lactic acid can have health promoting
             properties, thus enhancing the performance of farm animals. The lactic acid can
             be also used as an additive in food and/or drinking water both for animals and
             humans.
                                                   18

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             PRODUCTS DERIVED FROM LACTIC ACID
             [0073]       Lactic acid can be used as a platform chemical for many industrially
             relevant chemicals and products. For example, with reference to FIG. 2, lactic
             acid can be converted to, lactate esters such as ethyl lactate, acrylic acid, 1,2
             propanediol, 2,3-pentanedione, acetaldehyde, propanoic acid and poly lactic acid.
             [0074]       1,2-propane diol (propylene glycol) can be used as a solvent and anti
             freeze substitute for 1,2-propane diol. Propylene glycol is also used for de-icing
             solutions (e.g., airplane de-icing). Propylene glycol is approved for use as a food
             additive and can be used in food industry as a humectant, preservative, lubricant
             (e.g., for food processing equipment), solvent (e.g., for pharmaceutical
             preparations), plasticizer (e.g., for materials that come into contact with food).
             [0075]       Ethyl lactate has uses in pharmaceutical preparations, food additives,
             fragrances and as a fine chemical, consumer product (e.g., cosmetics) and
             industrial solvent.
             [0076]       Acetaldehyde is currently produced in a large scale, primarily from
             petroleum sources. It is a synthon in a myriad of organic reactions to produce, for
             example, ethyl acetate (an important solvent), perfumes, polyester resins and
             basic dyes. It also finds uses as a solvent (e.g., in the rubber, tanning and paper
             industries), as a preservative (e.g., fruit and meat), a flavoring agent and a
             denaturant for fuel compositions.
             [0077]       2,3-pentanedione is useful as a solvent for cellulose acetate, paints,
             inks, lacquers. It is also a starting material for the synthesis of dyes, pesticides
             and drugs. It also can be used as a constituent in synthetic flavoring agents.
             [0078]       (Meth)acrylic acid and its esters (e.g., methyl, butyl, ethyl,
             hydroxyethyl and 2-ethylhexyl esters) polymerize through their double bond to
             form poly acrylates (e.g., polyacrylic acid). In addition, acrylic acid and its esters
             can copolymerize with other monomers e.g., acrylamides, acrylonitriles, styrene,
             vinyl and butadiene) forming copolymers which are used in manufacturing
             plastics, coatings, adhesives, elastomers, floor polishes and paints.
             [0079]       Propanoic acid can be used as a fungicide and bactericide, for
             treatment of grains, hay, poultry litter, drinking water for animals as well as for
             the treatment of areas used for storage of feed materials. It is also a synthon for
             production of other chemicals, for example, herbicides and various esters.
             [0080]       Poly lactic acid is an important biodegradable/recyclable polymer that
             will be discussed in detail below.
                                                     19

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             POLYMERIZATION OF LACTIC ACID
             [0081]       Lactic acid prepared as described herein can undergo ester
             condensation to form dimers (e.g., linear and lactide), trimers, oligomers and
             polymers. Polylactic acid (PLA) is therefore, a polyester of condensed lactic acid.
             PLA can be further processed (e.g., grafted, treated, or copolymerized to form
             side chains including ionizable groups). Another name for PLA is polylactide.
             Both isomers of PLA can form polymers and/or they can be copolymerized. The
             properties of the polymer depend strongly on the amounts of the D and L lactic
             acid incorporated in the structure, as will be discussed further on.
             [0082]       FIG. 4 shows methods for the production of PLA including: direct
             condensation combined with chain coupling; azeotropic dehydrative coupling;
             and condensation followed by lactide formation and ring opening polymerization
             of the lactide.
             [0083]       A low molecular weight PLA can be produced catalyst free by the
             direct self-condensation of lactic acid. This method produces low molecular
             weight polymers (e.g., about 1000 to 10,000 Mw, more typically about 1000 to
             5,000). The condensation produces water which can prevent the production of
             high molecular weight PLA since the ester condensation reaction is reversible. In
             addition, lactide can be produced by backbiting from a chain end to form the
             lactide ring which reduces the molecular weight of the linear polymer. Therefore,
             the polycondensation system of PLA involves two equilibrium reactions; the
             dehydration/hydrolysis equilibrium for esterification/de-esterification; and the
             ring/chain equilibrium involving the depolymerization of PLA into lactide or
             polymerization of the ring to linear polymer.
             [0084]       One method for production of high molecular weight PLA is by
             coupling low Mw PLA, for example, made as described above, using chain
             coupling agents. For example, hydroxyl-terminated PLA can be synthesized by
             the condensation of lactic acid in the presence of small amounts of
             multifunctional hydroxyl compounds such as , ethylene glycol, propylene glycol,
             1,3-propanediol, 1,2-cyclohexanediol, 2-butene-1,4-diol, glycerol, 1,4-butanediol,
             1,6-hexanediol. Alternatively, carboxyl-terminated PLA can be achieved by the
             condensation of lactic acid in the presence of small amounts of multifunctional
             carboxylic acids such as maleic, succinic, adipic, itaconic and malonic acid.
             Other chain extending agents can have heterofunctional groups that couple either
             on the carboxylic acid end group of the PLA or the hydroxyl end group, for
                                                   20

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             example, 6-hydroxycapric acid, mandelic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4
             acetoxybenzoic acid.
             [0085]      Esterification promotion agents can also be combined with lactic acid
             to increase the molecular weight of PLA. For example, ester promotion agents
             include phosgene, diphosgene, triphosgene dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and
             carbonyldiimidazole. Some potentially undesirable side products can be produced
             by this method adding purification steps to the process. After final purification,
             the product can be very clean, free of catalysts and low molecular weight
             impurities.
             [0086]      The polymer molecular weights can also be increase by the addition of
             chain extending agents such as isocyanates, acid chlorides, anhydrides, epoxides,
             thiirane and oxazoline and orthoester.
             [0087]      Azeotropic condensation polymerization is another method to obtain
             high molecular weight polymer and does not require chain extenders or coupling
             agents. A general procedure for this route consists of reduced pressure (between
             0.1-300 mm Hg) refluxing of lactic acid for 1-10 hours between 110'C-160 C to
             remove majority of the condensation water. Catalyst and/or solvents are added
             and heated further for 1-10 hours between 110'C-180 C under 0.1-300 mm Hg.
             The polymer is then isolated or dissolved (methylene chloride, chloroform) and
             precipitated by the addition of a solvent (e.g., methyl ether, diethyl ether,
             methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, ethyl acetate, toluene) for further purification.
             Solvents used during to polymerization, catalyst, reaction time, temperature and
             level of impurities effect the rate of polymerization and hence the final molecular
             weight.
             [0088]      Additives, catalysts and promoters that can optionally be used include
             Lewis and Bronsted (protonic) acids such as H3 PO 4 , H 2 SO 4 , methane sulfonic
             acid, p-toluene sulfonic acid, NAFION@ NR 50 H+ form From DuPont,
             Wilmington DE , metal catalysts, for example, include Mg, Al, Ti, Zn, Sn. Some
             metal oxides that can optionally catalyze the reaction include TiO 2 , ZnO, GeO 2,
             ZrO 2 , SnO, Sn0 2, Sb 2 0 3 . Metal halides, for example, that can be beneficial
             include ZnCl 2 , SnCl 2 , SnC14. Other metal containing catalysts that can optionally
             be used include Mn(AcO) 2, Fe2(LA) 3, Co(AcO) 2, Ni(AcO) 2, Cu(OA) 2, Zn(LA) 2 ,
             Y(OA) 3, Al(i-PrO) 3 , Ti(BuO) 4 , TiO(acac) 2, (Bu) 2 SnO. Combinations and
             mixtures of the above catalysts can also be used. For example, two or more
             catalysts can be added at one time or sequentially as the polymerization
                                                      21

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             progresses. The catalysts can also be removed, replenished and/or regenerated
             during the course of the polymerization are for repeated polymerizations.
             Optional combinations include protonic acids and one of the metal continuing
             catalysts, for example, SnCl 2/p-toluenesulfonic acid.
             [0089]      The azeotropic condensation can be done partially or entirely using a
             solvent. For example, a high boiling and aprotic solvent such as diphenyl ether,
             p-xylene, o-chlorotoluene, o-dichlorobenzene and/or isomers of these. The
             polymerization can also be done entirely or partially using melt
             polycondensation. Melt polycondensations are done above the melting point of
             the polymers/oligomers without organic solvents. For example, at the beginning
             of the polymerization when there is a high concentration of low molecular weight
             species (e.g., lactic acid and oligomers) there can be less need for a solvent, while
             as the molecular weight of the polymers increases, the addition of a high boiling
             solvent can improve the reaction rates.
             [0090]      During the polymerization, for example, especially at the beginning of
             the polymerization when the concentration of lactic acid is high and water is
             being formed at a high rate, the lactic acid/water azeotropic mixture can be
             condensed and made to pass through molecular sieves to dehydrate the lactic acid
             which is then returned to the reaction vessel.
             [0091]      Copolymers can be produced by adding monomers other than lactic
             acid during the azeotropic condensation reaction. For example, any of the
             multifunctional hydroxyl, carboxylic compounds or the heterofunctional
             compounds that can be used as coupling agents for low molecular weight PLA
             can also be used as co-monomers in the azeotropic condensation reaction.
             [0092]      Optionally, ring opening polymerization of lactide can provide PLA.
             Lactide can be produced by the depolymerization of low molecular weight PLA
             under reduced pressure. The depolymerization to form the lactide monomers, for
             example, the D, L and meso forms, depends on the stereochemistry of the starting
             lactic acid and conditions of formation. Methods to form the lactide include
             condensing lactic acid, with or without catalysts at 110-180'C and removing the
             water of condensation under vacuum (1mm Hg- 100 mm Hg) to produce 1000
             5000 molecular weight polymer or prepolymer. The prepolymer can then be
             heated, for example, to temperatures of about 150-250'C and at 0.1-100 mmHg to
             form and distill off the crude lactic acid. The crude lactic acid can be
             recrystallized, for example, from a solution of dry toluene or ethyl acetate.
                                                    22

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             [0093]      Catalysts can be used for lactide formation. For example, catalysts
             that can be used include, tin oxide (SnO), Sn(II) octoate, Li carbonate, Zinc
             diacetate dehydrate, Ti tetraisopropoxide, potassium carbonate, tin powder,
             combinations thereof and mixtures of these. Catalysts can be used in combination
             and/or sequentially.
             [0094]      The lactide monomer can be ring open polymerized (ROP) by
             solution, bulk, melt and suspension polymerization and is catalyzed by cationic,
             anionic, coordination or free radical polymerization. Some catalysts used, for
             example, include protonic acids, HBr, HCl, triflic acid, Lewis acids, ZnCl 2 ,
             AlCl 3, anions, potassium benzoate, potassium phenoxide, potassium t-butoxide,
             and zinc stearate, metals, Tin, zinc, aluminum, antimony, bismuth, lanthanide and
             other heavy metals, Tin (II) oxide and tin (II) octoate (e.g., 2-ethylhexanoate),
             tetraphenyl tin, tin (II) and (IV) halogenides, tin (II) acetylacetonoate,
             distannoxanes (e.g., hexabutyldistannoxane, R 3SnOSnR 3 where R groups are
             alkyl or aryl groups), Al(OiPr) 3 , other functionalized aluminum alkoxides (e.g.,
             aluminum ethoxide, aluminum methoxide), ethyl zinc, lead (II) oxide, antimony
             octoate, bismuth octoate, rare earth catalysts, yttrium tris(methyl lactate), yttrium
             tris(2-N-N-dimethylamino ethoxide), samarium tris(2-N-N-dimethylamino
             ethoxide), yttrium tris(trimethylsilyl methyl), lanthanum tris(2,2,6,6
             tetramethylheptanedionate), lanthanum tris(acetylacetonate), yttrium octoate,
             yttrium tris(acetylacetonate), yttrium tris(2,2,6,6-tetramethylheptanedionate),
             combinations of these (e.g., ethyl zinc/aluminum isopropoxide) and mixtures of
             these.
             [0095]      In addition to homopolymer, copolymerization with other cyclic
             monomers and non-cyclic monomers such as glycolide, caprolactone,
             valerolactone, dioxypenone, trimethyl carbonate, 1,4- benzodioxepin-2,5-(3H)
             dione glycosalicylide, 1,4- benzodioxepin-2,5-(3H, 3-methyl)-dione
             Lactosalicylide, dibenzo-1,5 dioxacin-6-12-dione disalicylide, morpholine-2,5
             dione, 1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione glycolide, oxepane-2-one e-caprolactone, 1,3
             dioxane-2-one trimethylene carconate, 2,2-dimethyltrimethylene carbonate, 1,5
             dioxepane-2-one, 1,4-dioxane-2-one p-dioxanone, gamma-butyrolactone, beta
             butyrolactone, beta-me-delta-valerolactone, 1,4-dioxane-2,3-dione ethylene
             oxalate, 3-[benzyloxycarbonyl methyl]-1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione, ethylene oxide,
             propylene oxide, 5,5'(oxepane-2-one), 2,4,7,9-tetraoxa-spiro[5,5]undecane-3,8
             dione Spiro-bid-dimethylene caronate can produce co-polymers. Copolymers can
                                                    23

WO 2014/176508                                                                 PCT/US2014/035467
             also be produced by adding monomers such as the multifunctional hydroxyl,
             carboxylic compounds or the heterofunctional compounds that can be used as
             coupling agents for low molecular weight PLA.
             [0096]       HG. 5 shows a schematic view of a reaction system for polymerizing
             lactic acid. The reaction system (510) includes a stainless steel jacked reaction
             tank (520), a vented screw extruder (528), a pelletizer (530), a heat exchanger
             (534) and a condensation tank (540). An outlet (521) of the reaction tank is
             connected to a tube (e.g., stainless steel) which is connected to an inlet (545) to a
             heat exchanger. An outlet (546) to the heat exchanger is connected to another
             tube (e.g., stainless steel or other corrosive resistant material) and is connected to
             an inlet (548) to the condensation tank (540). The tubes and connections from the
             reaction tank and condensation tank provide a fluid pathway (e.g., water
             vapor/air) between the two tanks. A vacuum can be applied to the fluid pathway
             between the tanks (520) and (540) by utilizing a vacuum pump (550) that is
             connected to port (549).
             [0097]       The reaction tank (520) includes an outlet (524) that can be connected
             to a tube (e.g., stainless steel) that is connected to an inlet to a screw extruder
             (560). An outlet to the extruder (562) is connected to a tube which is connected
             optionally through a valve (560) to the reaction tank (520) through inlet (527).
             Optionally the outlet to the extruder (562) is connected through valve (560) to the
             pelletizer (530) through inlet (532). Tubes and connections from the reaction tank
             and extruder provide a circular fluid pathway (e.g., reactants and products)
             between the reaction tank and extruder when the valve (560) is set in
             recirculating position. The tubes and connections from the reaction tank to the
             pelletizer provide a fluid pathway between the reaction tank and pelletizer when
             the valve (560) is set in pelletizing position.
             [0098]       When in operation, the tank can be charged with lactic acid. The
             lactic acid is heated in the tank utilizing the stainless steel heating jacket (522). In
             addition, a vacuum is applied to the condensation tank (540) and therefore to the
             reaction tank (520) through the stainless steel tubing and connections using the
             vacuum pump (550). The heating of the lactic acid accelerates the condensation
             reactions (e.g., esterification reactions) to form oligomers of PLA while the
             applied vacuum helps volatilize the water that is produced. Water vapor travels
             out of the reactants and out of the reaction tank (520) and towards the heat
             exchanger (534) as indicated by the arrow. The heat exchanger cools the water
                                                      24

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             vapor and the condensed water drops into the condensation tank (540) through
             the tubes and connections previously described. Multiple heat exchangers can be
             utilized. Since the hydroxy-carboxylic acids can be corrosive the reactor
             equipment and other associated equipment may be clad or coated with corrosive
             resistant metals such as tantalum, alloys such as HASTELLOYTM, a trademarked
             alloy from Haynes International, and the like. It can also be coated with inert
             high temperature polymeric coatings such as TEFLONTM from DuPont,
             Wilmington De. The corrosivity of the hydroxy-carboxylic acid system may not
             be surprising since the pKa of lactic acid is more than 0.8 less than acetic acid.
             Also, water undoubtedly hydrates the acid and the acid end of the polymer.
             When those waters of hydration are removed the acidity can be much higher,
             since it is not leveled by the waters of hydration.
             [0099]       In addition, during operation, extruder (528) can be engaged and
             operated to draw the reactants (e.g., lactic acid, oligomers and polymers) out of
             the tank. When the valve (560) is set in recirculating position the reactants are
             circulated back to the reaction tank in the direction shown by the arrows. In
             addition to the extruder, the flow can be controlled by valve (525), for example,
             the valve can be set to closed for no flow, open for maximal flow or an
             intermediate position for lower or high flow rates (e.g., between about 0 and
             100% open, e.g., about 0%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%
             or about 100% open).
             [00100]      The reaction can be continued with reactants following a circular
             pathway (e.g., with valve in recirculating position) until a desired polymerization
             is achieved. This circulating pathway provides mixing and shearing that can help
             the polymerization (e.g., increase molecular weight, control polydispersity,
             improve the kinetics of the polymerization, improve temperature distribution and
             diffusion of reacting species).The products (e.g. polymer) can then be directed to
             the pelletizer by setting valve (560) to the pelletizing position. The pelletizer then
             can produce pellets which can be collected. Pellets can be of various shapes and
             sizes. For example, spherical or approximately spherical, hollow tube shaped,
             filled tube shape with, for example, approximate volumes, between about 1mm 3
             to about lcm 3. The pelletizer can also be replaced with other equipment, for
             example, extruders, mixers, reactors, and filament makers.
             [00101]      The extruder (528) can be a vented screw extruder so that water or
             other volatile compounds can be removed from further processing. The extruder
                                                   25

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             can be a single screw extruder or a multiple screw extruder. For example, the
             extruder can be a twin screw extruder with co-rotating or counter rotating screws.
             The screw extruder can also be a hollow flight extruder and can be heated or
             cooled. The screw extruder can be fitted with ports to its interior. The ports can
             be utilized, for example, for the addition of additives, addition of co-monomers,
             addition of cross-linking agents, addition of catalysts, irradiation treatments and
             addition of solvents. The ports can also be utilized for sampling (e.g., to test the
             progress of the reaction or troubleshoot). In addition to sampling, the torque
             applied to the extruder can be used to monitor the progress of the polymerization
             (e.g., as the viscosity increases). An inline (e.g., a static mixer) mixer can also be
             disposed in the pathway of the circulating reactants, for example, before or after
             the screw extruder, providing a tortuous path for the reactants which can improve
             the mixing supplied to the reactants. The extruder can be sized, for example, so
             that the material is recirculated, e.g., about 0.25-10 times per hour (e.g., about 1-5
             or 1-4 times per hour).
             [00102]      The position of the return port (527) allows the reactants to flow down
             the side of the tank, increasing the surface area of the reactants facilitating the
             removal of water. The return port can include multiple (e.g. a plurality of ports)
             disposed at various positions in the tanks. For example, the plurality of return
             ports can be placed circumferentially around the tank.
             [00103]      The tank can include a reciprocating scraper (529) which can help
             push the formed polymer/oligomers down the reaction tank, for example, during
             or after completion of the reaction. Once the reciprocating scraper moves down,
             the scraper can then be moved back up, for example, to a resting position. The
             scraper can be moved up and down the tank by engaging with and axel (640) that
             is attached to the hub (650). In another possible embodiment, the hub can be
             tapped for mechanical coupling to a screw, for example, wherein the axel is a
             screw-axel that extends to the bottom of the tank. The screw-axel can then turn to
             drive the scraper down or up.
             [00104]      A top view of one embodiment of a reciprocating scraper is shown in
             FIG. 6A while a front cut out view is shown in FIG. 6B. The reciprocating
             scraper includes pistons (620) attached to a hub (650) and scraping ends (630).
             The scraping end is in the form of a compression ring with a gap (660). The
             pistons apply pressure against the inside surfaces of the tank (615) through the
             scraping ends (630) while the scraper can be moved down the tank as shown by
                                                     26

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             the arrow in FIG. 6B. The gap (660) allows the expansion and contraction of the
             scraper. The scraper can be made of any flexible material, for example, steel such
             as stainless steel. The gap is preferably as small as possible (e.g., less than about
             1", less than about 0.1", less than about 0.01" or even less than about 0.001").
             [00105]       Another embodiment of a reciprocating scraper is shown in FIG. 6C
             and FIG. 6D. In this second embodiment the scraping ends include a lip-seal. The
             lip seal can be made of a flexible material, for example, rubber. The movement of
             the lip-seal as the scraper moves up and down acts as a squeegee against the
             inside of the reaction tank.
             [00106]       The tank (520) can be 100 gal in size, although larger and smaller
             sizes can be utilized (e.g., between about 20 to 10, 000 gal, e.g., at least 50 gal, at
             least 200 gal, at least 500 gal, at least1O00 gal). The tank, for example, can be
             shaped with a conical bottom or rounded bottom.
             [00107]       In addition to the inlets and outlets discussed, the tank can also
             include other openings, for example, to allow the addition of reagents or for
             access to the interior of the tank for repairs.
             [00108]       During the reaction the temperature in the tank can be controlled from
             between about 100 and 180       0 C. The polymerization can preferably started at
             about 100   0  C and the temperature increased to about 160 'C over several hours (
             e.g., between 1 and 48 hours, 1 and 24 hours, 1 and 16 hours, 1 and 8 hours). A
             vacuum can be applied between about 0.1 and 2 mmHg). For example, at the
             beginning of the reaction about 0. 1mmHg and at the end of the reaction about 2
             mmHg.
             [00109]       Water from the condenser tank (540) can be drained trough an
             opening (542) utilizing control valve (544).
             [00110]        The heat exchanger can be a fluid cooled heat exchanger. For
             example, cooled with water, air or oil. Several heat exchangers can be used, for
             example, as needed to condense as much of the water as possible. For example, a
             second heat exchanger can be located between the vacuum pump and the
             condensation tank (540).
             [00111]       The equipment and reactions described herein (e.g., FIG. 5) can also
             be used for polymerization of other monomers. In addition, the equipment can be
             utilized after or during the polymerizations for blending of polymers. For
             example, any of the hydroxyl acids described herein can be polymerized by the
             methods, equipment and system described herein.
                                                      27

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             [00112]     In addition to chemical method, lactic acid can be polymerized by
             LA-polymerizing enzymes and organisms. For example, ROP can be catalyzed
             by Candida antarcticalipase B, and hydrolases.
             PLA STEROCHEMISTRY
             [00113]     Mechanical and thermal properties of pure PLA are largely
             determined by the molecular weight and stereochemical composition of the
             backbone. The stereochemical composition of the backbone can be controlled by
             the choice and ratios of monomers; D-Lactic acid, L-Lactic acid or alternatively
             D-Lactide, L-Lactide or meso-Lactide. This stereochemical control allows the
             formation of random or block stereo copolymers. The molecular weight of the
             polymers can be controlled, for example, as discussed above. The ability to
             control the stereochemical architecture allows, for example, precise control over
             the speed and degree of crystallinity, the mechanical properties, and the melting
             point and glass transition temperatures of the material.
             [00114]     The degree of crystallinity of PLA influences the hydrolytic stability
             of the polymer, and therefore, the biodegradability of the polymer. For example,
             highly crystalline PLA can take from months to years to degrade, while
             amorphous samples can be degraded in a few weeks to a few months. This
             behavior is due in part to the impermeability of the crystalline regions of PLA.
             Table 1 shows some of the thermal properties of some PLA of similarly treated
             samples. The percent crystallinity can be calculated by using data form the table
             and applying the equation.
             [00115]     Where AZHm is the melting enthalpy in J/g, A1He is the crystallization
             enthalpy in J/g and 93 is the crystallization enthalpy of a totally crystalline PLA
             sample in J/g.
             [00116]     As can be calculated from the data in the table, the crystallinity is
             directly proportional to the molecular weight of the pure L or pure D stereo
             polymer. The DL stereoisomer (e.g., atactic polymer) is amorphous.
                                                   28

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             Table 1: Thermal properties of PLA
        hortertype      Mox0-/M.     Mm           T(C        T-(*C1      AHI(J/g     1 (*C     AH/    g)
         L.                                                   157.8        5.5-58         3     47.
        DL                  4,3         90         44.7
                                                   67.9       159.)        58 8       1083      483
         DL                 73         L16         4
                D.381.19                           65.,7      .170.3       67107.6               5
         S!                                                        3       61         110.3       8.1
        D                  16.5        L20         69.1       173.5                   109.J      5 .6
        L16.8                          132         586        173.4        64         105.0      3.
             [00117]      Calculated crystallinities are in order top to bottom: 8.2%, 0%, 11.3%,
             0%, 15.7%, 13.8%, 14.0% and 25%.
             [00118]      The thermal treatment of samples, for example, rates of melting,
             recrystallization, and annealing history, can in part determine the amount of
             crystallization. Therefore, comparisons of the thermal, chemical and mechanical
             properties of PLS polymers should generally be most meaningful for polymers
             with a similar thermal history.
             [00119]      The pure L-PLA or D-PLA has a higher tensile strength and low
             elongation and consequently has a higher modulus than DL-PLA. Values for L
             PLA vary greatly depending on how the material is made e.g., tensile strengths of
             30 to almost 400 MPa, and tensile modulus between 1.7 to about 4.5 GPa.
             PLA COPOLYMERS, CROSSLINKING AND GRAFTING
             [00120]      Variation of PLA by the formation of copolymers as discussed above
             also has a very large influence on the properties, for example, by disrupting and
             decreasing the crystallinity and modulating the glass transition temperatures. For
             example, polymers with increased flexibility, improved hydrophilicity, better
             degradability, better biocompatibility, better tensile strengths, improved
             elongations properties can be produced.
             [00121]      In many cases, the improvements are correlated with a decrease in the
             glass transition temperature. A few monomers can increase the glass transition
             temperature of PLA. For example, lactones of salicylic acids can have
             homopolymer glass transition temperatures between about 70 and 110 'C and
             polymerize with lactide.
                                                     29

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             [00122]      Morpholinediones, which are half alpha-hydroxy carboxylic acids and
             half alpha-amino acids co-polymerize with lactide to give high molecular weight
             random co-polymers with lower glass transition temperatures (e.g., following the
             Flory-Fox equation).     morpholinediones made up of glycine and lactic acid (6
             methyl-2,5-morpholinedione) when copolymerized with lactide can give a
             polymer with glass transition temperatures of 109 and 71       0 C for a 50 and 75
             mol% lactic acid respectively in the polymer. Morpholinediones have been
             synthesized using glycolic acid or lactic acid and most of the alpha amino acids
             (e.g., glycine, alanine, aspartic acid, lysine, cysteine, valine and leucine). In
             addition to lowering the glass transition temperature and improving mechanical
             properties, the use of functional amino acids in the synthesis of morpholinediones
             is an effective way of incorporating functional pendant groups into the polymer.
             [00123]      As an example, copolymers of glycolide and lactide can be useful as
             biocompatible surgical sutures due to increased flexibility and hydrophilicity.
             The higher melting point of 228    0 C and Tg of 37    0 C for polyglycolic acid can
             produce a range of amorphous co-polymers with lower glass transition
             temperatures than PLA. Another copolymerization example is copolymerization
             with e-caprolactone which can yield tough polymers with properties ranging from
             ridged plastics to elastomeric rubbers and with tensile strengths ranging from 80
             to 7000 psi, and elongations over 400%. Co-polymers of beta-methyl-gamma
             valerolactone have been reported to produce rubber-like properties. Co-polymers
             with polyethers such as poly(ethylene oxide), poly(propylene oxide) and
             poly(tetramethylene oxide) are biodegradable, biocompatible and flexible
             polymers.
             [00124]      Some additional useful monomers that can be copolymerized with
             lactide include 1,4-benzodioxepin-2,3(H)-dione glycosalicylide; 1.3
             benzodioxepin-2,5-(3H, 3-methyl)-dione Lactosalicylide; dibenzo-1,5-dioxacin
             6,12-dione disalicylide; morpholine-2,5-dione, 1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione, glycolide;
             oxepane-2-one trimethylene carbonate; 2,2-dimethyltrimethylene carbonate; 1,5
             dioxepane-2-one; 1,4-dioxane-2-one p-dioxanone; gamma-butyrolactone; beta
             butyrolactone; beta-methyl-delta-valerolactone; beta-methyl-gamma
             valerolactone; 1,4-dioxane-2,3-dione ethylene oxalate;
             3[(benzyloxycarbonyl)methyl]-1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione; ethylene oxide; propylene
             oxide, 5,5'-(oxepane-2-one) and 2,4,7,9-tetraoxa-spiro[5,5] undecane-3,8-dione
             Spiro-bis-dimethylene caronate.
                                                    30

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             [00125]      PLA polymers and co-polymers can be modified by cross linking.
             Cross linking can affect the thermal and rheological properties without
             necessarily deteriorating the mechanical properties. For example, 0.2 mol % 5,5'
             bis(oxepane-2-one)(bis- r -caprolactone)) and 0.1-0.2 mol% spiro-bis
             dimethylene carbonate cross linking. Free radical hydrogen abstraction reactions
             and subsequent polymer radical recombination is an effective way of inducing
             crosslinks into a polymer. Radicals can be generated, for example, by high energy
             electron beam and other irradiation (e.g., between about 0.01 Mrad and 15 Mrad,
             e.g. between about 0.01-5 Mrad, between about 0.1-5 Mrad, between about 1-5
             Mrad). For example, irradiation methods and equipment are described in detail
             below.
             [00126]      Alternatively or in addition, peroxides, such as organic peroxides are
             effective radical producing and cross linking agents. For example, peroxides that
             can be used include hydrogen peroxide, dicumyl peroxide; benzoyl peroxide; 2,5
             Dimethyl-2,5-di(tert-butylperoxy)hexane; tert-butylperoxy 2-ethylhexyl
             carbonate; tert-amyl peroxy-2-ethylhexanoate; 1,1-di(tert
             amylperoxy)cyclohexane; tert-amyl peroxyneodecanoate; tert-amyl
             peroxybenzoate; tert-amylperoxy 2-ethylhexyl carbonate; tert-amyl
             peroxyacetate; 2,5-dimethyl-2,5-di(2-ethylhexanoylperoxy)hexane; tert-butyl
             peroxy-2-ethylhexanoate; 1,1-di(tert-butylperoxy)cyclohexane; tert-butyl
             peroxyneodecanoate; tert-butyl peroxyneoheptanoate; tert-butyl
             peroxydiethylacetate; 1,1-di(tert-butylperoxy)-3,3,5-trimethylcyclohexane; 3,6,9
             triethyl-3,6,9-trimethyl-1,4,7-triperoxonane; di(3,5,5-trimethylhexanoyl)
             peroxide; tert-butyl peroxyisobutyrate; tert-butyl peroxy-3,5,5
             trimethylhexanoate; di-tert-butyl peroxide; tert-butylperoxy isopropyl carbonate;
             tert-butyl peroxybenzoate; 2,2-di(tert-butylperoxy)butane; di(2-ethylhexyl)
             peroxydicarbonate; di(2-ethylhexyl) peroxydicarbonate; tert-butyl peroxyacetate;
             tert-butyl cumyl peroxide; tert-amylhydroperoxide; 1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl
             hydroperoxide, and mixtures of these. The effective amounts can vary, for
             example, depending on the peroxide, cross-linking reaction conditions and the
             desired properties (e.g., amount of cross linking). For example, cross-linking
             agents can be added from between about 0.01- 10 wt.% ( e.g., about 0.1-10
             wt.%, about 0.01-5wt.%, about 0.1-lwt.%, about 1-8 wt.%, about 4-6 wt.%). For
             example, peroxides such as 5.25 wt. % dicumyl peroxide and 0.1% benzoyl
             peroxide are effective radical producing and cross linking agents for PLA and
                                                    31

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             PLA derivatives. The peroxide cross-lining agents can be added to polymers as
             solids, liquids or solutions, for example, in water or organic solvents such as
             mineral spirits. In addition radical stabilizers can be utilized.
             [00127]      Cross linking can also be effectively accomplished by the
             incorporation of unsaturation in the polymer chain either by: initiation with
             unsaturated alcohols such as hydroxyethyl methacrylate or 2-butene-1,4-diol; the
             post reaction with unsaturated anhydrides such as maleic anhydride to transform
             the hydroxyl chain end; or copolymerization with unsaturated epoxides such as
             glycidyl methacrylate.
             [00128]      In addition to cross linking, grafting of functional groups and
             polymers to a PLA polymer or co-polymer is an effective method of modifying
             the polymer properties. For example, radicals can be formed as described above
             and a monomer, functionalizing polymer or small molecule. For example,
             irradiation or treatment with a peroxide and then quenching with a functional
             group containing an unsaturated bond can effectively functionalize the PLA
             backbone.
             PLA BLENDING
             [00129]      PLA can be blended with other polymers as miscible or immiscible
             compositions. For immiscible blends, the composition can be one with the minor
             component (e.g., bellow about 30 wt. %) as small (e.g., micron or sub-micron)
             domains in the major component. When one component is about 30 to 70 wt. %
             the blend forms a co-continuous morphology (e.g., lamellar, hexagon phases or
             amorphous continuous phases).
             [00130]      Blending can be accomplished by melt mixing above the glass
             transition temperature of the amorphous polymer components. Screw extruders
             (e.g., single screw extruders, co-rotating twin screw extruders, counter rotating
             twin screw extruders) can be useful for this. For PLA polymers and co-polymers
             temperatures below about 200      0 C can be used to avoid thermal degradation (e.g.
             below about 180      C). Therefore, polymers that require higher processing
             temperatures are not generally good candidates for blending with PLA.
             [00131]      Polyethylene oxide (PEO) and polypropylene oxide (PPO) can be
             blended with PLA. Lower molecular weight glycols (300-1000 Mw) are miscible
             with PLA while PPO becomes immiscible at higher molecular weight. These
             polymers, especially PEO, can be used to increase the water transmission and
                                                    32

WO 2014/176508                                                            PCT/US2014/035467
             bio-degradation rate of PLA. They can also be used as polymeric plasticizers to
             lower the modulus and increase flexibility of PLA. High molecular weight PEG
             (20,000) is miscible in PLA up to about 50%, but above that level the PEG
             crystallizes, reducing the ductility of the blend.
             [00132]      Polyvinyl acetate (PVA) is miscible with PLA in all concentrations,
             where the blends show only one Tg is observed at all blend ratios, with a constant
             decrease to about 37   0C  at 100% PVA. Low levels of PVA (5-10%) increase the
             tensile strength and % elongation of PLA while significantly reducing the rate of
             weight loss during bio-degradation.
             [00133]      Blends of PLA and polyolefins (polypropylene and polyethylene)
             result in incompatible systems with poor physical properties due to the poor
             interfacial compatibility and high interfacial energy. However, the interfacial
             energy can be lowered, for example, by the addition of third component
             compatibilizers, such as glycidyl methacrylate grafted polyethylene. (irradiation
             would probably work) Polystyrene and high impact polystyrene resins are also
             non-polar and blends with PLA are generally not very compatible
             [00134]      PLA and acetals can be blended making compositions with useful
             properties. For example, good, high transparency.
             [00135]      PLA is miscible with polymethyl methacrylate and many other
             acrylates and copolymers of (meth)acrylates. Drawn films of PMMA/PLA blends
             are transparent and have high elongation.
             [00136]      Polycarbonate can be combined with PLA up to about a 50 wt. %
             composition of Polycarbonate. The compositions have high heat resistance, flame
             resistance and toughness and have applications, for example, in consumer
             electronics such as laptops. About 50 wt. % polycarbonate, the processing
             temperatures approach the degradation temperature of PLA.
             [00137]      Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) can be blended with PLA
             although the polymers are not miscible. This combination is a less brittle material
             than PLA and provides a way to toughen PLA.
             [00138]      Poly(propylene carbonate) can be blended with PLA providing a
             biodegradable composite since both polymers are biodegradable.
             [00139]      PLA can also be blended with Poly(butylene succinate). Blends can
             impart thermal stability and impact strength to the PLA.
                                                   33

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             [00140]      PEG, poly propylene glycol, poly(vinyl acetate), anhydrides (e.g.,
             maleic anhydride) and fatty acid esters have been added as plasticizers and/or
             compatibilizers.
             [00141]      Blending can also be accomplished with the application of irradiation,
             including irradiation and quenching. For example, irradiation or irradiation and
             quenching, as described herein applied to biomass can be applied to the
             irradiation of PLA and PLA copolymers for any purpose, for example, before,
             after and/or during blending. This treatment can aid in the processing, for
             example, making the polymers more compatible and/or making/breaking bonds
             within the polymer and/or blended additive (e.g., polymer, plasticizer). For
             example, between about 0.1 Mrad and 150 Mrad followed by quenching of the
             radicals by the addition of fluids or gases (e.g., oxygen, nitrous oxide, ammonia,
             liquids), using pressure, heat, and/or the addition of radical scavengers.
             Quenching of biomass that has been irradiated is described in U.S. Pat. No.
             8,083,906 to Medoff, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
             reference, and the equipment and processes describe therein can be applied to
             PLA and PLA derivatives. Irradiation and extruding or conveying of the PLA or
             PLA copolymers can also be utilized, for example, as described for the treatment
             of biomass in U.S. Application Serial No. 13/009,151 filed on May 2, 2011 the
             entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
             PLA COMPOSITES
             [00142]      PLA polymers, co-polymers and blends can be combined with
             synthetic and/or natural materials. For example, PLA and any PLA derivative
             (e.g., PLA copolymers, PLA blends, grated PLA, cross-linked PLA) can be
             combined with synthetic and natural fibers. For example, protein, starch,
             cellulose, plant fibers (e.g., abaca, leaf, skin, bark, kenaf fibers), inorganic fillers,
             flax, talc, glass, mica, saponite and carbon fibers. This can provide a material
             with, for example, improved mechanical properties (e.g., toughness, harness,
             strength) and improved barrier properties (e.g., lower permeability to water
             and/or gasses).
             [00143]      Nano composites can also be made by dispersing inorganic or organic
             nanoparticles into either a thermoplastic or thermoset polymer. Nanoparticles can
             be spherical, polyhedral, two dimensional nanofibers or disc-like nanoparticles.
                                                     34

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             For example, colloidal or microcrystalline silica, alumina or metal oxides (e.g.,
             TiO 2 ); carbon nanotubes; clay platelets.
             [00144]      Composites can be prepared similarly to polymer blends, for example,
             utilizing screw extrusion and/or injection molding. Irradiation as described herein
             can also be applied to the composites, during, after or before their formation. For
             example, irradiation of the polymer and combination with the synthetic and/or
             natural materials, or irradiation of the synthetic and/or natural materials and
             combination with the polymer, or irradiation of both the polymer and synthetic
             and/or natural material and then combining, or irradiating the composite after it
             has been combined, with or without further processing.
             PLA WITH PLASTICIZERS AND ELASTOMERS
             [00145]      In addition to the blends previously discussed, PLA and PLA
             derivatives can be combined with plasticizers.
             [00146]       For example, as described in J.Apple. Polym. Sci. 66: 1507-1513,
             1997, PLA can be blended with monomeric and oligomeric plasticizers in order
             to enhance its flexibility and thereby overcome its inherent brittleness.
             Monomeric plasticizers, such as tributyl citrate, TbC, and diethyl
             bishydroxymethyl malonate, DBM, can drastically decreased the T of PLA.
             Increasing the molecular weight of the plasticizers by synthesizing oligoesters
             and oligoesteramides can result in blends with T depressions slightly smaller
             than with the monomeric plasticizers. The compatibility with PLA can be
             dependent on the molecular weight of the oligomers and on the presence of polar
             groups (e.g., amide groups, hydroxyl groups, ketones, esters) that can interact
             with the PLA chains. The materials can retain a high flexibility and
             morphological stability over long periods of time, for example, when formed into
             films.
             [00147]      Citrate esters can also be used as plasticizers with poly(lactic acid)
             (PLA). Films can be extruded, for example, using a single or twin-screw extruder
             with plasticizer contents (citrate esters or others described herein) of between
             about 1 and 40 wt. % (e.g., about 5-30 wt. %, about 5-25 wt. %, about 5-15 wt.
             %). Plasticizers such as citrate esters can be effective in reducing the glass
             transition temperature and improving the elongation at break. The plasticizing
             efficiency can be higher for the intermediate-molecular-weight plasticizers. The
                                                    35

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             addition of plasticizers can modulate the enzymatic degradation of PLA. For
             example, lower-molecular-weight citrates can increase the enzymatic degradation
             rate of PLA and the higher-molecular-weight citrates can decreased the
             degradation rate as compared with that of unplasticized PLA.
             [00148]      Preparation of poly(lactic acid)/elastomer blends can also be prepared
             by melt blending technique, for example, as described in the Journalof
             Elastomers and Plastics, January 3, 2013. PLA and biodegradable elastomer can
             be melt blended and molded in an injection molding machine. The melting
             temperature can decrease as the amount of elastomer increases. Additionally, the
             presence of elastomer can modulate the crystallinity of PLA, for example,
             increasing the crystallinity by between about 1 and 30 % (e.g., between about 1 to
             20 %, between about 5 and 15%). The complex viscosity and storage modulus of
             PLA melt can decrease upon addition of elastomer. The elongation at break can
             increase as the content of elastomer increased while Young's modulus and tensile
             strength often decrease due to the addition of elastomer.
             [00149]      It has been observed that the cold crystallization temperature of the
             blends decreased as the weight fraction of elastomer increased as well as the
             onset temperature of cold crystallization also shifted to lower temperature. For
             example, as reported in the Journal of Polymer Research, February 2012,
             19:9818. In non-isothermal crystallization experiments, the crystallinity of PLA
             increased with a decrease in the heating and cooling rate. The melt crystallization
             of poly(lactic acid) appeared in the low cooling rate (1, 5 and 7.5 'C/min). The
             presence of small amounts of elastomer can also increase the crystallinity of poly
             (lactic acid). The DSC thermogram at ramp of 10 'C/min showed the maximum
             crystallinity of poly(lactic acid) is 36.95% with 20 wt. % elastomer contents in
             blends. In isothermal crystallization, the cold crystallization rate increased with
             increasing crystallization temperature in the blends. The Avrami analysis showed
             that the cold crystallization was in two stages process and it was clearly seen at
             low temperature. The Avrami exponent (n) at first stage was varying from 1.59 to
             2 which described a one-dimensional crystallization growth with homogeneous
             nucleation, whereas at second stage was varying from 2.09 to 2.71 which
             described the transitional mechanism to three dimensional crystallization growth
             with heterogeneous nucleation mechanism. The equilibrium melting point of
             poly(lactic acid) was also evaluated at 176 'C.
                                                    36

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             [00150]      Some examples of elastomers that can be combined with PLA
             include: Elastomer NPEL001, Polyurethane elastomers (5-10%), Functionalized
             polyolefin elastomers, Blendex@ (e.g., 415, 360, 338), PARALOIDTM KM 334,
             BTA 753, EXL 3691A, 2314, Ecoflex@ Supersoft Silicone Bionolle@ 3001,
             Pelleethane@ 2102-75A, Kraton@ FG 1901X, Hytrel@ 3078, and mixtures of
             these. Mixtures with any other elastomer, for example, as described herein can
             also be used.
             [00151]      Some examples of plasticizers that can be combined with PLA
             include: Triacetin, glycerol triacetate, tributyl citrate, polyethylene glycol,
             GRINDSTED@ SOFT-N-SAFE (acetic acid ester of monoglycerides) made from
             fully hydrogenated castor oil and combinations of these. Mixtures with any other
             plasticizers, for example, as described herein can also be used.
             [00152]      The main characteristic of elastomer materials is the high elongation
             and flexibility or elasticity of these materials, against its breaking or cracking.
             [00153]      Depending on the distribution and degree of the chemical bonds of the
             polymers, elastomeric materials can have properties or characteristics similar to
             thermosets or thermoplastics, so elastomeric materials can be classified into:
             Thermoset Elastomers (e.g., do not melt when heated) and Thermoplastic
             Elastomers (e.g., melt when heated). Some properties of elastomer materials:
             Cannot melt, before melting they pass into a gaseous state; swell in the presence
             of certain solvents; are generally insoluble; are flexible and elastic; lower creep
             resistance than the thermoplastic materials.
             [00154]       Examples of applications of elastomer materials described herein are:
             possible substitutes or replacements for natural rubber(e.g., material used in the
             manufacture of gaskets, shoe heels); possible substitutes or replacements for
             polyurethanes (e.g., for use in the textile industry for the manufacture of elastic
             clothing, for use as foam, and for use in making wheels); possible substitutes or
             replacements for polybutadiene (e.g., elastomer material used on the wheels or
             tires of vehicles); possible substitutes or replacements for neoprene (e.g., used for
             the manufacture of wetsuits , wire insulation, industrial belts); possible
             substitutes or replacements for silicone (e.g., pacifiers, medical prostheses,
             lubricants). In addition, the materials described herein can be used as substitutes
             for polyurethane and silicon adhesives.
                                                    37

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             FLAVORS, FRAGRANCES AND COLORS
             [00155]     Any of the products and/or intermediates described herein, for
             example, hydroxyl acids, lactic acid, PLA, PLA derivatives (e.g., PLA
             copolymers, PLA composites, cross-linked PLA, grafted PLA, PLA blends or
             any other PLA containing material prepared as described herein) can also be
             combined with flavors, fragrances colors and/or mixtures of these. For example,
             any one or more of (optionally along with flavors, fragrances and/or colors)
             sugars, organic acids, fuels, polyols, such as sugar alcohols, biomass, fibers and
             composites, hydroxy-carboxylic acids, lactic acid, PLA, PLA derivatives can be
             combined with (e.g., formulated, mixed or reacted) or used to make other
             products. For example, one or more such product can be used to make soaps,
             detergents, candies, drinks (e.g., cola, wine, beer, liquors such as gin or vodka,
             sports drinks, coffees, teas), pharmaceuticals, adhesives, sheets (e.g., woven,
             none woven, filters, tissues) and/or composites (e.g., boards). For example, one
             or more such product can be combined with herbs, flowers, petals, spices,
             vitamins, potpourri, or candles. For example, the formulated, mixed or reacted
             combinations can have flavors/fragrances of grapefruit, orange, apple, raspberry,
             banana, lettuce, celery, cinnamon, vanilla, peppermint, mint, onion, garlic,
             pepper, saffron, ginger, milk, wine, beer, tea, lean beef, fish, clams, olive oil,
             coconut fat, pork fat, butter fat, beef bouillon, legume, potatoes, marmalade, ham,
             coffee and cheeses.
             [00156]     Flavors, fragrances and colors can be added in any amount, such as
             between about 0.01 wt.% to about 30 wt.%, e.g., between about 0.05 to about 10,
             between about 0.1 to about 5, or between about 0.25 wt.% to about 2.5 wt.%.
             These can be formulated, mixed and/or reacted (e.g., with any one of more
             product or intermediate described herein) by any means and in any order or
             sequence (e.g., agitated, mixed, emulsified, gelled, infused, heated, sonicated,
             and/or suspended). Fillers, binders, emulsifier, antioxidants can also be utilized,
             for example, protein gels, starches and silica.
             [00157]     The flavors, fragrances and colors can be natural and/or synthetic
             materials. These materials can be one or more of a compound, a composition or
             mixtures of these (e.g., a formulated or natural composition of several
             compounds). Optionally, the flavors, fragrances, antioxidants and colors can be
             derived biologically, for example, from a fermentation process (e.g., fermentation
             of saccharified materials as described herein). Alternatively, or additionally these
                                                    38

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             flavors, fragrances and colors can be harvested from a whole organism (e.g.,
             plant, fungus, animal, bacteria or yeast) or a part of an organism. The organism
             can be collected and or extracted to provide color, flavors, fragrances and/or
             antioxidant by any means including utilizing the methods, systems and equipment
             described herein, hot water extraction, chemical extraction (e.g., solvent or
             reactive extraction including acids and bases), mechanical extraction (e.g.,
             pressing, comminuting, filtering), utilizing an enzyme, utilizing a bacteria such as
             to break down a starting material, and combinations of these methods. The
             compounds can be derived by a chemical reaction, for example, the combination
             of a sugar (e.g., as produced as described herein) with an amino acid (Maillard
             reaction). The flavor, fragrance, antioxidant and/or color can be an intermediate
             and or product produced by the methods, equipment or systems described herein,
             for example, and ester and a lignin derived product.
             [00158]     Some examples of flavor, fragrances or colors are polyphenols.
             Polyphenols are pigments responsible for the red, purple and blue colors of many
             fruits, vegetables, cereal grains, and flowers. Polyphenols also can have
             antioxidant properties and often have a bitter taste. The antioxidant properties
             make these important preservatives. On class of polyphenols are the flavonoids,
             such as Anthrocyanins, flavonols, flavan-3-ols, flavones, flavanones and
             flavanonols. Other phenolic compounds that can be used include phenolic acids
             and their esters, such as chlorogenic acid and polymeric tannins.
             [00159]     Inorganic compounds, minerals or organic compounds can be used,
             for example, titanium dioxide, cadmium yellow (e.g., CdS), cadmium orange
             (e.g., CdS with some Se), alizarin crimson (e.g., synthetic or non-synthetic rose
             madder), ultramarine (e.g., synthetic ultramarine, natural ultramarine, synthetic
             ultramarine violet ), cobalt blue, cobalt yellow, cobalt green, viridian (e.g.,
             hydrated chromium(III)oxide), chalcophyllite, conichalcite, cornubite,
             cornwallite and liroconite.
             [00160]     Some flavors and fragrances that can be utilized include ACALEA
             TBHQ, ACET C-6, ALLYL AMYL GLYCOLATE, ALPHA TERPINEOL,
             AMBRETTOLIDE, AMBRINOL 95, ANDRANE, APHERMATE,
             APPLELIDE, BACDANOL@, BERGAMAL, BETA IONONE EPOXIDE,
             BETA NAPHTHYL ISO-BUTYL ETHER, BICYCLONONALACTONE,
             BORNAFIX@, CANTHOXAL, CASHMERAN@, CASHMERAN@ VELVET,
             CASSIFFIX@, CEDRAFIX, CEDRAMBER@, CEDRYL ACETATE,
                                                   39

WO 2014/176508                                           PCT/US2014/035467
             CELESTOLIDE, CINNAMALVA, CITRAL DIMETHYL ACETATE,
             CITROLATETM, CITRONELLOL 700, CITRONELLOL 950, CITRONELLOL
             COEUR, CITRONELLYL ACETATE, CITRONELLYL ACETATE PURE,
             CITRONELLYL FORMATE, CLARYCET, CLONAL, CONIFERAN,
             CONIFERAN PURE, CORTEX ALDEHYDE 50% PEOMOSA, CYCLABUTE,
             CYCLACET@, CYCLAPROP@, CYCLEMAXTM, CYCLOHEXYL ETHYL
             ACETATE, DAMASCOL, DELTA DAMASCONE, DIHYDRO CYCLACET,
             DIHYDRO MYRCENOL, DIHYDRO TERPINEOL, DIHYDRO TERPINYL
             ACETATE, DIMETHYL CYCLORMOL, DIMETHYL OCTANOL PQ,
             DIMYRCETOL, DIOLA, DIPENTENE, DULCINYL@ RECRYSTALLIZED,
             ETHYL-3-PHENYL GLYCIDATE, FLEURAMONE, FLEURANIL, FLORAL
             SUPER, FLORALOZONE, FLORIFFOL, FRAISTONE, FRUCTONE,
             GALAXOLIDE@ 50, GALAXOLIDE@ 50 BB, GALAXOLIDE@ 50 IPM,
             GALAXOLIDE@ UNDILUTED, GALBASCONE, GERALDEHYDE,
             GERANIOL 5020, GERANIOL 600 TYPE, GERANIOL 950, GERANIOL 980
             (PURE), GERANIOL CFT COEUR, GERANIOL COEUR, GERANYL
             ACETATE COEUR, GERANYL ACETATE, PURE, GERANYL FORMATE,
             GRISALVA, GUAIYL ACETATE, HELIONALTM, HERBAC,
             HERBALIMETM, HEXADECANOLIDE, HEXALON, HEXENYL
             SALICYLATE CIS 3-, HYACINTH BODY, HYACINTH BODY NO. 3,
             HYDRATROPIC ALDEHYDE.DMA, HYDROXYOL, INDOLAROME,
             INTRELEVEN ALDEHYDE, INTRELEVEN ALDEHYDE SPECIAL,
             IONONE ALPHA, IONONE BETA, ISO CYCLO CITRAL, ISO CYCLO
             GERANIOL, ISO E SUPER@, ISOBUTYL QUINOLINE, JASMAL,,
             JESSEMAL@, KHARISMAL@, KHARISMAL@ SUPER, KHUSINIL,
             KOAVONE@, KOHINOOL@, LIFFAROMETM, LIMOXAL, LINDENOLTM,
             LYRAL@, LYRAME SUPER, MANDARIN ALD 10% TRI ETH, CITR,
             MARITIMA, MCK CHINESE, MEIJIFFTM, MELAFLEUR, MELOZONE,
             METHYL ANTHRANILATE, METHYL IONONE ALPHA EXTRA, METHYL
             IONONE GAMMA A, METHYL IONONE GAMMA COEUR, METHYL
             IONONE GAMMA PURE, METHYL LAVENDER KETONE,
             MONTAVERDI@, MUGUESIA, MUGUET ALDEHYDE 50, MUSK Z4,
             MYRAC ALDEHYDE, MYRCENYL ACETATE, NECTARATETM, NEROL
             900, NERYL ACETATE, OCIMENE, OCTACETAL, ORANGE FLOWER
             ETHER, ORIVONE,, ORRINIFF 25%, OXASPIRANE, OZOFLEUR,
                                         40

WO 2014/176508                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             PAMPLEFLEUR@, PEOMOSA, PHENOXANOL@, PICONIA,
             PRECYCLEMONE B, PRENYL ACETATE, PRISMANTOL, RESEDA BODY,
             ROSALVA, ROSAMUSK, SANJINOL, SANTALIFFTM', SYVERTAL,
             TERPINEOL,TERPINOLENE 20, TERPINOLENE 90 PQ, TERPINOLENE
             RECT., TERPINYL ACETATE, TERPINYL ACETATE JAX, TETRAHYDRO,
             MUGUOL@, TETRAHYDRO MYRCENOL, TETRAMERAN,
             TIMBERSILKTM, TOBACAROL, TRIMOFIX@ 0 TT, TRIPLAL@,
             TRISAMBER@, VANORIS, VERDOXTM, VERDOXTM HC, VERTENEX@,
             VERTENEX@ HC, VERTOFIX@ COEUR, VERTOLIFF, VERTOLIFF ISO,
             VIOLIFF, VIVALDIE, ZENOLIDE, ABS INDIA 75 PCT MIGLYOL, ABS
             MOROCCO 50 PCT DPG, ABS MOROCCO 50 PCT TEC, ABSOLUTE
             FRENCH, ABSOLUTE INDIA, ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB, ABSOLUTE
             MOROCCO, CONCENTRATE PG, TINCTURE 20 PCT, AMBERGRIS,
             AMBRETTE ABSOLUTE, AMBRETTE SEED OIL, ARMOISE OIL 70 PCT
             THUYONE, BASIL ABSOLUTE GRAND VERT, BASIL GRAND VERT ABS
             MD, BASIL OIL GRAND VERT, BASIL OIL VERVEINA, BASIL OIL
             VIETNAM, BAY OIL TERPENELESS, BEESWAX ABS N G, BEESWAX
             ABSOLUTE, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM 50
             PCT DPG, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM 50 PCT PG, BENZOIN RESINOID
             SIAM 70.5 PCT TEC, BLACKCURRANT BUD ABS 65 PCT PG,
             BLACKCURRANT BUD ABS MD 37 PCT TEC, BLACKCURRANT BUD
             ABS MIGLYOL, BLACKCURRANT BUD ABSOLUTE BURGUNDY, BOIS
             DE ROSE OIL, BRAN ABSOLUTE, BRAN RESINOID, BROOM ABSOLUTE
             ITALY, CARDAMOM GUATEMALA C02 EXTRACT, CARDAMOM OIL
             GUATEMALA, CARDAMOM OIL INDIA, CARROT HEART, CASSIE
             ABSOLUTE EGYPT, CASSIE ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT IPM, CASTOREUM
             ABS 90 PCT TEC, CASTOREUM ABS C 50 PCT MIGLYOL, CASTOREUM
             ABSOLUTE, CASTOREUM RESINOID, CASTOREUM RESINOID 50 PCT
             DPG, CEDROL CEDRENE, CEDRUS ATLANTICA OIL REDIST,
             CHAMOMILE OIL ROMAN, CHAMOMILE OIL WILD, CHAMOMILE OIL
             WILD LOW LIMONENE, CINNAMON BARK OIL CEYLAN, CISTE
             ABSOLUTE, CISTE ABSOLUTE COLORLESS, CITRONELLA OIL ASIA
             IRON FREE, CIVET ABS 75 PCT PG, CIVET ABSOLUTE, CIVET
             TINCTURE 10 PCT, CLARY SAGE ABS FRENCH DECOL, CLARY SAGE
             ABSOLUTE FRENCH, CLARY SAGE C'LESS 50 PCT PG, CLARY SAGE
                                         41

WO 2014/176508                                            PCT/US2014/035467
             OIL FRENCH, COPAIBA BALSAM, COPAIBA BALSAM OIL, CORIANDER
             SEED OIL, CYPRESS OIL, CYPRESS OIL ORGANIC, DAVANA OIL,
             GALBANOL, GALBANUM ABSOLUTE COLORLESS, GALBANUM OIL,
             GALBANUM RESINOID, GALBANUM RESINOID 50 PCT DPG,
             GALBANUM RESINOID HERCOLYN BHT, GALBANUM RESINOID TEC
             BHT, GENTIANE ABSOLUTE MD 20 PCT BB, GENTIANE CONCRETE,
             GERANIUM ABS EGYPT MD, GERANIUM ABSOLUTE EGYPT,
             GERANIUM OIL CHINA, GERANIUM OIL EGYPT, GINGER OIL 624,
             GINGER OIL RECTIFIED SOLUBLE, GUAIACWOOD HEART, HAY ABS
             MD 50 PCT BB, HAY ABSOLUTE, HAY ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT TEC,
             HEALINGWOOD, HYSSOP OIL ORGANIC, IMMORTELLE ABS YUGO
             MD 50 PCT TEC, IMMORTELLE ABSOLUTE SPAIN, IMMORTELLE
             ABSOLUTE YUGO, JASMIN ABS INDIA MD, JASMIN ABSOLUTE
             EGYPT, JASMIN ABSOLUTE INDIA, ASMIN ABSOLUTE MOROCCO,
             JASMIN ABSOLUTE SAMBAC, JONQUILLE ABS MD 20 PCT BB,
             JONQUILLE ABSOLUTE France, JUNIPER BERRY OIL FLG, JUNIPER
             BERRY OIL RECTIFIED SOLUBLE, LABDANUM RESINOID 50 PCT TEC,
             LABDANUM RESINOID BB, LABDANUM RESINOID MD, LABDANUM
             RESINOID MD 50 PCT BB, LAVANDIN ABSOLUTE H, LAVANDIN
             ABSOLUTE MD, LAVANDIN OIL ABRIAL ORGANIC, LAVANDIN OIL
             GROSSO ORGANIC, LAVANDIN OIL SUPER, LAVENDER ABSOLUTE H,
             LAVENDER ABSOLUTE MD, LAVENDER OIL COUMARIN FREE,
             LAVENDER OIL COUMARIN FREE ORGANIC, LAVENDER OIL
             MAILLETTE ORGANIC, LAVENDER OIL MT, MACE ABSOLUTE BB,
             MAGNOLIA FLOWER OIL LOW METHYL EUGENOL, MAGNOLIA
             FLOWER OIL, MAGNOLIA FLOWER OIL MD, MAGNOLIA LEAF OIL,
             MANDARIN OIL MD, MANDARIN OIL MD BHT, MATE ABSOLUTE BB,
             MOSS TREE ABSOLUTE MD TEX IFRA 43, MOSS-OAK ABS MD TEC
             IFRA 43, MOSS-OAK ABSOLUTE IFRA 43, MOSS-TREE ABSOLUTE MD
             IPM IFRA 43, MYRRH RESINOID BB, MYRRH RESINOID MD, MYRRH
             RESINOID TEC, MYRTLE OIL IRON FREE, MYRTLE OIL TUNISIA
             RECTIFIED, NARCISSE ABS MD 20 PCT BB, NARCISSE ABSOLUTE
             FRENCH, NEROLI OIL TUNISIA, NUTMEG OIL TERPENELESS, OEILLET
             ABSOLUTE, OLIBANUM RESINOID, OLIBANUM RESINOID BB,
             OLIBANUM RESINOID DPG, OLIBANUM RESINOID EXTRA 50 PCT DPG,
                                        42

WO 2014/176508                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             OLIBANUM RESINOID MD, OLIBANUM RESINOID MD 50 PCT DPG,
             OLIBANUM RESINOID TEC, OPOPONAX RESINOID TEC, ORANGE
             BIGARADE OIL MD BHT, ORANGE BIGARADE OIL MD SCFC, ORANGE
             FLOWER ABSOLUTE TUNISIA, ORANGE FLOWER WATER ABSOLUTE
             TUNISIA, ORANGE LEAF ABSOLUTE, ORANGE LEAF WATER
             ABSOLUTE TUNISIA, ORRIS ABSOLUTE ITALY, ORRIS CONCRETE 15
             PCT IRONE, ORRIS CONCRETE 8 PCT IRONE, ORRIS NATURAL 15 PCT
             IRONE 4095C, ORRIS NATURAL 8 PCT IRONE 2942C, ORRIS RESINOID,
             OSMANTHUS ABSOLUTE, OSMANTHUS ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB,
             PATCHOULI HEART N-3, PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA, PATCHOULI
             OIL INDONESIA IRON FREE, PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA MD,
             PATCHOULI OIL REDIST, PENNYROYAL HEART, PEPPERMINT
             ABSOLUTE MD, PETITGRAIN BIGARADE OIL TUNISIA, PETITGRAIN
             CITRONNIER OIL, PETITGRAIN OIL PARAGUAY TERPENELESS,
             PETITGRAIN OIL TERPENELESS STAB, PIMENTO BERRY OIL,
             PIMENTO LEAF OIL, RHODINOL EX GERANIUM CHINA, ROSE ABS
             BULGARIAN LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE ABS MOROCCO LOW
             METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE ABS TURKISH LOW METHYL EUGENOL,
             ROSE ABSOLUTE, ROSE ABSOLUTE BULGARIAN, ROSE ABSOLUTE
             DAMASCENA, ROSE ABSOLUTE MD, ROSE ABSOLUTE MOROCCO,
             ROSE ABSOLUTE TURKISH, ROSE OIL BULGARIAN, ROSE OIL
             DAMASCENA LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE OIL TURKISH,
             ROSEMARY OIL CAMPHOR ORGANIC, ROSEMARY OIL TUNISIA,
             SANDALWOOD OIL INDIA, SANDALWOOD OIL INDIA RECTIFIED,
             SANTALOL, SCHINUS MOLLE OIL, ST JOHN BREAD TINCTURE 10 PCT,
             STYRAX RESINOID, STYRAX RESINOID, TAGETE OIL, TEA TREE
             HEART, TONKA BEAN ABS 50 PCT SOLVENTS, TONKA BEAN
             ABSOLUTE, TUBEROSE ABSOLUTE INDIA, VETIVER HEART EXTRA,
             VETIVER OIL HAITI, VETIVER OIL HAITI MD, VETIVER OIL JAVA,
             VETIVER OIL JAVA MD, VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE EGYPT, VIOLET
             LEAF ABSOLUTE EGYPT DECOL, VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE FRENCH,
             VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB, WORMWOOD OIL
             TERPENELESS, YLANG EXTRA OIL, YLANG III OIL and combinations of
             these.
                                        43

WO 2014/176508                                                            PCT/US2014/035467
             [00161]     The colorants can be among those listed in the Color Index
             International by the Society of Dyers and Colourists. Colorants include dyes and
             pigments and include those commonly used for coloring textiles, paints, inks and
             inkjet inks. Some colorants that can be utilized include carotenoids, arylide
             yellows, diarylide yellows, B-naphthols, naphthols, benzimidazolones, disazo
             condensation pigments, pyrazolones, nickel azo yellow, phthalocyanines,
             quinacridones, perylenes and perinones, isoindolinone and isoindoline pigments,
             triarylcarbonium pigments, diketopyrrolo-pyrrole pigments, thioindigoids.
             Cartenoids include e.g., alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene,
             lycopene, lutein and astaxanthin Annatto extract, Dehydrated beets (beet
             powder), Canthaxanthin, Caramel, Apo-8'-carotenal, Cochineal extract, Carmine,
             Sodium copper chlorophyllin, Toasted partially defatted cooked cottonseed flour,
             Ferrous gluconate, Ferrous lactate, Grape color extract, Grape skin extract
             (enocianina), Carrot oil, Paprika, Paprika oleoresin, Mica-based pearlescent
             pigments, Riboflavin, Saffron, Titanium dioxide, carbon black, self-dispersed
             carbon, Tomato lycopene extract; tomato lycopene concentrate, Turmeric,
             Turmeric oleoresin, FD&C Blue No. 1, FD&C Blue No. 2, FD&C Green No. 3,
             Orange B, Citrus Red No. 2, FD&C Red No. 3, FD&C Red No. 40, FD&C
             Yellow No. 5, FD&C Yellow No. 6, Alumina (dried aluminum hydroxide),
             Calcium carbonate, Potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin (chlorophyllin
             copper complex), Dihydroxyacetone, Bismuth oxychloride, Ferric ammonium
             ferrocyanide, Ferric ferrocyanide, Chromium hydroxide green, Chromium oxide
             greens, Guanine, Pyrophyllite, Talc, Aluminum powder, Bronze powder, Copper
             powder, Zinc oxide, D&C Blue No. 4, D&C Green No. 5, D&C Green No. 6,
             D&C Green No. 8, D&C Orange No. 4, D&C Orange No. 5, D&C Orange No.
             10, D&C Orange No. 11, FD&C Red No. 4, D&C Red No. 6, D&C Red No. 7,
             D&C Red No. 17, D&C Red No. 21, D&C Red No. 22, D&C Red No. 27, D&C
             Red No. 28, D&C Red No. 30, D&C Red No. 31, D&C Red No. 33, D&C Red
             No. 34, D&C Red No. 36, D&C Red No. 39, D&C Violet No. 2, D&C Yellow
             No. 7, Ext. D&C Yellow No. 7, D&C Yellow No. 8, D&C Yellow No. 10, D&C
             Yellow No. 11, D&C Black No. 2, D&C Black No. 3 (3), D&C Brown No. 1,
             Ext. D&C, Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide, Ferric ammonium citrate,
             Pyrogallol, Logwood extract, 1,4-Bis [(2-hydroxy-ethyl)amino] -9,10
             anthracenedione bis(2-propenoic)ester copolymers, 1,4-Bis [(2
             methylphenyl)amino] -9,10-anthracenedione, 1,4-Bis[4- (2-methacryloxyethyl)
                                                  44

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             phenylamino] anthraquinone copolymers, Carbazole violet, Chlorophyllin-copper
             complex, Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide, C.I. Vat Orange 1, 2-[[2,5
             Diethoxy- 4-[(4-methylphenyl)thiol] phenyl]azo] -1,3,5-benzenetriol, 16,23
             Dihydrodinaphtho [2,3-a:2',3'-i] naphth [2',3':6,7] indolo [2,3-c] carbazole
             5,10,15,17,22,24-hexone, N,N'-(9,10-Dihydro- 9,10-dioxo- 1,5-anthracenediyl)
             bisbenzamide, 7,16-Dichloro- 6,15-dihydro- 5,9,14,18-anthrazinetetrone, 16,17
             Dimethoxydinaphtho (1,2,3-cd:3',2',1'-lm) perylene-5,10-dione,
             Poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate) -dye copolymers(3), Reactive Black 5, Reactive
             Blue 21, Reactive Orange 78, Reactive Yellow 15, Reactive Blue No. 19,
             Reactive Blue No. 4, C.I. Reactive Red 11, C.I. Reactive Yellow 86, C.I.
             Reactive Blue 163, C.I. Reactive Red 180, 4-[(2,4-dimethylphenyl)azo]- 2,4
             dihydro- 5-methyl-2-phenyl- 3H-pyrazol-3-one (solvent Yellow 18), 6-Ethoxy-2
             (6-ethoxy-3-oxobenzo[b] thien-2(3H)- ylidene) benzo[b]thiophen- 3(2H)-one,
             Phthalocyanine green, Vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate-dye reaction products,
             C.I. Reactive Red 180, C.I. Reactive Black 5, C.I. Reactive Orange 78, C.I.
             Reactive Yellow 15, C.I. Reactive Blue 21, Disodium 1-amino-4-[[4-[(2-bromo
             1-oxoallyl)amino] -2-sulphonatophenyl] amino] -9,1 0-dihydro-9, 10
             dioxoanthracene-2-sulphonate (Reactive Blue 69), D&C Blue No. 9,
             [Phthalocyaninato(2-)] copper and mixtures of these.
             [00162]     For example, a fragrance, e.g., natural wood fragrance, can be
             compounded into the resin used to make the composite. In some
             implementations, the fragrance is compounded directly into the resin as an oil.
             For example, the oil can be compounded into the resin using a roll mill, e.g., a
             Banburyo mixer or an extruder, e.g., a twin-screw extruder with counter-rotating
             screws. An example of a Banburyo mixer is the F-Series Banburyo mixer,
             manufactured by Farrel. An example of a twin-screw extruder is the WP ZSK 50
             MEGACOMPOUNDERTM, manufactured by Coperion, Stuttgart, Germany. After
             compounding, the scented resin can be added to the fibrous material and extruded
             or molded. Alternatively, master batches of fragrance-filled resins are available
             commercially from International Flavors and Fragrances, under the trade name
             POLYIFFTM. In some embodiments, the amount of fragrance in the composite is
             between about 0.005 % by weight and about 10 % by weight, e.g., between about
             0.1 % and about 5 % or 0.25 % and about 2.5 %. Other natural wood fragrances
             include evergreen or redwood. Other fragrances include peppermint, cherry,
             strawberry, peach, lime, spearmint, cinnamon, anise, basil, bergamot, black
                                                 45

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             pepper, camphor, chamomile, citronella, eucalyptus, pine, fir, geranium, ginger,
             grapefruit, jasmine, juniper berry, lavender, lemon, mandarin, marjoram, musk,
             myrrh, orange, patchouli, rose, rosemary, sage, sandalwood, tea tree, thyme,
             wintergreen, ylang ylang, vanilla, new car or mixtures of these fragrances. In
             some embodiments, the amount of fragrance in the fibrous material-fragrance
             combination is between about 0.005 % by weight and about 20 % by weight, e.g.,
             between about 0.1 % and about 5 % or 0.25 % and about 2.5 %. Even other
             fragrances and methods are described U.S. Patent 8,074,910 issued December 13,
             2011, the entire disclosure of which incorporated herein by reference.
             USES OF PLA AND PLA COPOLYMERS
             [00163]      Some uses of PLA and PLA containing materials include: personal
             care items (e.g., tissues, towels, diapers), green packaging, garden (compostable
             pots), consumer electronics (e.g., laptop and mobile phone casings), appliances,
             food packaging, disposable packaging (e.g., food containers and drink bottles),
             garbage bags (e.g., waste compostable bags), mulch films, controlled release
             matrices and containers (e.g., for fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, nutrients,
             pharmaceuticals, flavoring agents, foods), shopping bags, general purpose film,
             high heat film, heat seal layer, surface coating, disposable tableware (e.g., plates,
             cups, forks, knives, spoons, sporks, bowls), automotive parts (e.g., panels,
             fabrics, under hood covers), carpet fibers, clothing fibers (e.g., for garments,
             sportswear, footwear), biomedical applications (e.g., surgical sutures, implants,
             scaffolding, drug delivery systems, dialysis equipment) and engineering plastics.
             [00164]      Other uses/industrial sectors that can benefit from the use of PLA and
             PLA derivatives (e.g., elastomers) include IT and software, electronics,
             geoscience (e.g., oil and gas), engineering, aerospace (e.g., arm rests, seats,
             panels), telecommunications (e.g., headsets), chemical manufacturing,
             transportation such as automotive (e.g., dashboards, panels, tires, wheels),
             materials and steel, consumer packaged goods, wires and cables.
             OTHER ADVATAGES OF PLA AND PLA COPOLYMERS
             [00165]      PLA is bio-based and can be composted, recycled, used as a fuel
             (incinerated). Some of the degradation reactions include thermal degradation,
             hydrolytic degradation and biotic degradations.
                                                    46

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             [00166]      PLA can be thermally degraded. For example, at high temperatures
             (e.g., between about 200-300     0 C, about 230-260    C). The reactions involved in
             the thermal degradation of PLA can follow different mechanisms such as thermo
             hydrolysis, zipper-like depolymerization (e.g., in the presence of residual
             catalysts), thermo-oxidative degradation. Transesterification reactions can also
             operate on the polymer causing bond breaking and/or bond making.
             [00167]      PLA also can undergo hydrolytic degradation. Hydrolytic degradation
             includes chain scission producing shorter polymers, oligomers and eventually the
             monomer lactic acid can be released. Hydrolysis can be associated with thermal
             and biotic degradation. The process can be effected by various parameters such
             as the PLA structure, its molecular weight and distribution, its morphology (e.g.,
             crystallinity ), the shape of the sample (e.g., isolated thin samples or comminuted
             samples can degrade faster), the thermal and mechanical history (e.g., processing)
             and the hydrolysis conditions (e.g., temperature, agitation, comminution). The
             hydrolysis of PLA starts with a water uptake phase, followed by hydrolytic
             splitting of the ester bonds. The amorphous parts of the polyesters can be
             hydrolyzed faster than the crystalline regions because of the higher water uptake
             and mobility of chain segments in these regions. In a second stage, the crystalline
             regions of PLA are hydrolyzed.
             [00168]      PLA can also undergo biotic degradation. This degradation can occur
             for example, in a mammalian body, and has useful implications for 'degradable
             stitching and can have detrimental implications to other surgical implants.
             Enzymes, such as proteinase K and pronase can be utilized.
             [00169]      During composting, PLA can go through several degradation stages.
             For example, an initial stage can occur due to exposure to moisture wherein the
             degradation is abiotic and the PLA degrades by hydrolysis. This stage can be
             accelerated by the presence of acids and bases and elevated temperatures. The
             first stage can lead to embrittlement of the polymer which can facilitate the
             diffusion of PLA out of the bulk polymers. The oligomers can then be attacked
             by micro-organisms. Organisms can degrade the oligomers and lactic acid,
             leading to CO 2 and water. Time for this degradation is on the order of about one
             to a few years depending on the factors previously mentioned. The degradation
             time is several orders of magnitude faster than typical petroleum based plastic
             such as polyethylene (e.g., on the order of hundreds of years).
                                                     47

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             [00170]      PLA can also be recycled. For example, the PLA can be hydrolyzed to
             lactide acid, purified and re-polymerized. Unlike other recyclable plastics such as
             PET and HDPE, PLA does not need to be down-graded to make a product of
             diminished value (e.g., from a bottle to decking or carpet). PLA can be in theory
             recycled indefinitely. Optionally, PLA can be re-used and downgraded for
             several generations and then converted to PLA and re-polymerized.
             [00171]      PLA can also be used as a fuel, for example, for energy production.
             PLA can have high heat content e.g., up to about 8400 BTU. Incineration of pure
             PLA only releases carbon dioxide and water. Combinations with other
             ingredients typically amount to less than 1ppm of non PLA residuals (e.g., ash).
             Thus the combustion of PLA is cleaner than other renewable fuels, e.g. wood.
             [00172]      PLA can have high gloss, high transparency, high clarity, high
             stiffness, can be UV stable, non-allergenic, high flavor and aroma barrier
             properties, easy to blend, easy to mold, easy to shape, easy to emboss, easy to
             print on, lightweight, compostable.
             [00173]      PLA can also be printed on. For example, by lithographic, ink-jet
             printing, laser printing, fixed-type printing, roller printing. Some PLA can also be
             written on, for example, using a pen.
             [00174]      Processing as described herein can also include irradiation. For
             example, irradiation with between about 1 and 150 Mrad radiation (e.g., for
             example, any range as described herein) can improve the compostability and
             recyclability of PLA and PLA containing materials.
             RADIATION TREATMENT
             [00175]      The feedstock (e.g., cellulosic, lignocellulosic, PLA, PLA derivatives
             and combinations of these) can be treated with electron bombardment to modify
             its structure, for example, to reduce its recalcitrance or cross link the structures.
             Such treatment can, for example, reduce the average molecular weight of the
             feedstock, change the crystalline structure of the feedstock, and/or increase the
             surface area and/or porosity of the feedstock. Alternatively this treatment can
             produce radicals that can be sites for cross-linking, grafting and/or
             functionalization.
             [00176]      Electron bombardment via an electron beam is generally preferred,
             because it provides very high throughput. Accelerators used to accelerate the
             particles can be electrostatic DC, electrodynamic DC, RF linear, magnetic
                                                    48

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             induction linear or continuous wave. For example, cyclotron type accelerators
             are available from IBA, Belgium, such as the RHODOTRONTM system, while
             DC type accelerators are available from RDJ, now IBA Industrial, such as the
             DYNAMITRON@. Ions and ion accelerators are discussed in Introductory
             Nuclear Physics, Kenneth S. Krane, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (1988), Krsto
             Prelec, FIZIKA B 6 (1997) 4, 177-206, Chu, William T., "Overview of Light-Ion
             Beam Therapy", Columbus-Ohio, ICRU-IAEA Meeting, 18-20 March 2006,,
             Iwata, Y. et al., "Alternating-Phase-Focused IH-DTL for Heavy-Ion Medical
             Accelerators", Proceedings of EPAC 2006, Edinburgh, Scotland, and Leitner,
             C.M. et al., "Status of the Superconducting ECR Ion Source Venus", Proceedings
             of EPAC 2000, Vienna, Austria.
             [00177]      Electron bombardment may be performed using an electron beam
             device that has a nominal energy of less than 10 MeV, e.g., less than 7 MeV, less
             than 5 MeV, or less than 2 MeV, e.g., from about 0.5 to 1.5 MeV, from about 0.8
             to 1.8 MeV, or from about 0.7 to 1 MeV. In some implementations the nominal
             energy is about 500 to 800 keV.
             [00178]      The electron beam may have a relatively high total beam power (the
             combined beam power of all accelerating heads, or, if multiple accelerators are
             used, of all accelerators and all heads), e.g., at least 25 kW, e.g., at least 30, 40,
             50, 60, 65, 70, 80, 100, 125, or 150, 250, 300 kW. In some cases, the power is
             even as high as 500 kW, 750 kW, or even 1000 kW or more. In some cases the
             electron beam has a beam power of 1200 kW or more, e.g., 1400, 1600, 1800, or
             even 3000 kW. The electron beam may have a total beam power of 25 to 3000
             kW. Alternatively, the electron beam may have a total beam power of 75 to 1500
             kW. Optionally, the electron beam may have a total beam power of 100 to 1000
             kW. Alternatively, the electron beam may have a total beam power of 100 to 400
             kW.
             [00179]      This high total beam power is usually achieved by utilizing multiple
             accelerating heads. For example, the electron beam device may include two,
             four, or more accelerating heads. The use of multiple heads, each of which has a
             relatively low beam power, prevents excessive temperature rise in the material,
             thereby preventing burning of the material, and also increases the uniformity of
             the dose through the thickness of the layer of material.
             [00180]      It is generally preferred that the bed of feedstock material has a
             relatively uniform thickness. In some embodiments the thickness is less than
                                                     49

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             about 1 inch (e.g., less than about 0.75 inches, less than about 0.5 inches, less
             than about 0.25 inches, less than about 0.1 inches, between about 0.1 and 1 inch,
             between about 0.2 and 0.3 inches).
             [00181]      In some implementations, it is desirable to cool the material during
             and between dosing the material with electron bombardment. For example, the
             material can be cooled while it is conveyed, for example, by a screw extruder,
             vibratory conveyor or other conveying equipment. For example, cooling while
             conveying is described International App. No. PCT/US2014/021609 filed March
             7, 2014 and International App. No. PCT/US2014/021632 filed March 7, 2014,
             the entire descriptions of which are herein incorporated by reference.
             [00182]      To reduce the energy required by the recalcitrance-reducing process, it
             is desirable to treat the material as quickly as possible. In general, the treatment
             be performed at a dose rate of greater than about 0.25 Mrad per second, e.g.,
             greater than about 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 5, 7, 10, 12, 15, or even greater than about
             20 Mrad per second, e.g., about 0.25 to 30 Mrad per second. Alternately, the
             treatment is performed at a dose rate of 0.5 to 20 Mrad per second. Optionally,
             the treatment is performed at a dose rate of 0.75 to 15 Mrad per second.
             Alternately, the treatment is performed at a dose rate of 1 to 5 Mrad per second.
             Optionally, the treatment is performed at a dose rate of 1-3 Mrad per second or
             alternatively 1-2 Mrad per second. Higher dose rates allow a higher throughput
             for a target (e.g., the desired) dose. Higher dose rates generally require higher line
             speeds, to avoid thermal decomposition of the material. In one implementation,
             the accelerator is set for 3 MeV, 50 mA beam current, and the line speed is 24
             feet/minute, for a sample thickness of about 20 mm (e.g., comminuted corn cob
             material with a bulk density of 0.5 g/cm 3).
             [00183]      In some embodiments, electron bombardment is performed until the
             material receives a total dose of at least 0.1 Mrad, 0.25 Mrad, 1 Mrad, 5 Mrad,
             e.g., at least 10, 20, 30 or at least 40 Mrad. In some embodiments, the treatment
             is performed until the material receives a dose of from about 10 Mrad to about 50
             Mrad, e.g., from about 20 Mrad to about 40 Mrad, or from about 25 Mrad to
             about 30 Mrad. In some implementations, a total dose of 25 to 35 Mrad is
             preferred, applied ideally over a couple of seconds, e.g., at 5 Mrad/pass with each
             pass being applied for about one second. Applying a dose of greater than 7 to 8
             Mrad/pass can in some cases cause thermal degradation of the feedstock material.
             Cooling can be applied before, after, or during irradiation. For example, the
                                                     50

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             cooling methods, systems and equipment as described in the following
             applications can be utilized: International App. No. PCT/US2014/021609 filed
             March 7, 2014, and International App. No. PCT/US2013/064320 filed October
             10, 2013, the entire disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.
             [00184]     Using multiple heads as discussed above, the material can be treated
             in multiple passes, for example, two passes at 10 to 20 Mrad/pass, e.g., 12 to 18
             Mrad/pass, separated by a few seconds of cool-down, or three passes of 7 to 12
             Mrad/pass, e.g., 5 to 20 Mrad/pass, 10 to 40 Mrad/pass, 9 to 11 Mrad/pass. As
             discussed herein, treating the material with several relatively low doses, rather
             than one high dose, tends to prevent overheating of the material and also
             increases dose uniformity through the thickness of the material. In some
             implementations, the material is stirred or otherwise mixed during or after each
             pass and then smoothed into a uniform layer again before the next pass, to further
             enhance treatment uniformity.
             [00185]     In some embodiments, electrons are accelerated to, for example, a
             speed of greater than 75 percent of the speed of light, e.g., greater than 85, 90, 95,
             or 99 percent of the speed of light.
             [00186]     In some embodiments, any processing described herein occurs on
             feedstock material that remains dry as acquired or that has been dried, e.g., using
             heat and/or reduced pressure. For example, in some embodiments, the cellulosic
             and/or lignocellulosic material has less than about 25 wt. % retained water,
             measured at 25'C and at fifty percent relative humidity (e.g., less than about 20
             wt.%, less than about 15 wt.%, less than about 14 wt.%, less than about 13 wt.%,
             less than about 12 wt.%, less than about 10 wt.%, less than about 9 wt.%, less
             than about 8 wt.%, less than about 7 wt.%, less than about 6 wt.%, less than about
             5 wt.%, less than about 4 wt.%, less than about 3 wt.%, less than about 2 wt.%,
             less than about 1 wt.%, less than about 0.5 wt.%, less than about 15 wt.%.
             [00187]     In some embodiments, two or more electron sources are used, such as
             two or more ionizing sources. For example, samples can be treated, in any order,
             with a beam of electrons, followed by gamma radiation and UV light having
             wavelengths from about 100 nm to about 280 nm. In some embodiments,
             samples are treated with three ionizing radiation sources, such as a beam of
             electrons, gamma radiation, and energetic UV light. The biomass is conveyed
             through the treatment zone where it can be bombarded with electrons.
                                                   51

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             [00188]      It may be advantageous to repeat the treatment to more thoroughly
             reduce the recalcitrance of the biomass and/or further modify the biomass. In
             particular, the process parameters can be adjusted after a first (e.g., second, third,
             fourth or more) pass depending on the recalcitrance of the material. In some
             embodiments, a conveyor can be used which includes a circular system where the
             biomass is conveyed multiple times through the various processes described
             above. In some other embodiments, multiple treatment devices (e.g., electron
             beam generators) are used to treat the biomass multiple (e.g., 2, 3, 4 or more)
             times. In yet other embodiments, a single electron beam generator may be the
             source of multiple beams (e.g., 2, 3, 4 or more beams) that can be used for
             treatment of the biomass.
             [00189]      The effectiveness in changing the molecular/supermolecular structure
             and/or reducing the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing biomass depends
             on the electron energy used and the dose applied, while exposure time depends
             on the power and dose. In some embodiments, the dose rate and total are adjusted
             so as not to destroy (e.g., char or burn) the biomass material. For example, the
             carbohydrates should not be damaged in the processing so that they can be
             released from the biomass intact, e.g. as monomeric sugars.
             [00190]      In some embodiments, the treatment (with any electron source or a
             combination of sources) is performed until the material receives a dose of at least
             about 0.05 Mrad, e.g., at least about 0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, 10.0,
             15, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 125, 150, 175, or 200 Mrad. In some
             embodiments, the treatment is performed until the material receives a dose of
             between 0.1-100 Mrad, 1-200, 5-200, 10-200, 5-150, 50-150 Mrad, 5-100, 5-50,
             5-40, 10-50, 10-75, 15-50, 20-35 Mrad.
             RADIATION OPAQUE MATERIALS
             [00191]      The invention can include processing the material in a vault and/or
             bunker that is constructed using radiation opaque materials. In some
             implementations, the radiation opaque materials are selected to be capable of
             shielding the components from X-rays with high energy (short wavelength),
             which can penetrate many materials. One important factor in designing a
             radiation shielding enclosure is the attenuation length of the materials used,
             which will determine the required thickness for a particular material, blend of
             materials, or layered structure. The attenuation length is the penetration distance
                                                    52

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             at which the radiation is reduced to approximately l/e (e = Euler's number) times
             that of the incident radiation. Although virtually all materials are radiation
             opaque if thick enough, materials containing a high compositional percentage
             (e.g., density) of elements that have a high Z value (atomic number) have a
             shorter radiation attenuation length and thus, if such materials are used, a thinner,
             lighter shielding can be provided. Examples of high Z value materials that are
             used in radiation shielding are tantalum and lead. Another important parameter
             in radiation shielding is the halving distance, which is the thickness of a
             particular material that will reduce gamma ray intensity by 50%.        As an example
             for X-ray radiation with an energy of 0.1 MeV the halving thickness is about 15.1
             mm for concrete and about 0.27 mm for lead, while with an X-ray energy of 1
             MeV the halving thickness for concrete is about 44.45 mm and for lead is about
             7.9 mm. Radiation opaque materials can be materials that are thick or thin so long
             as they can reduce the radiation that passes through to the other side. Thus, if it is
             desired that a particular enclosure have a low wall thickness, e.g., for light weight
             or due to size constraints, the material chosen should have a sufficient Z value
             and/or attenuation length so that its halving length is less than or equal to the
             desired wall thickness of the enclosure.
             [00192]      In some cases, the radiation opaque material may be a layered
             material, for example, having a layer of a higher Z value material, to provide
             good shielding, and a layer of a lower Z value material to provide other properties
             (e.g., structural integrity, impact resistance, etc.). In some cases, the layered
             material may be a "graded-Z" laminate, e.g., including a laminate in which the
             layers provide a gradient from high-Z through successively lower-Z elements. In
             some cases the radiation opaque materials can be interlocking blocks, for
             example, lead and/or concrete blocks can be supplied by NELCO Worldwide
             (Burlington, MA), and reconfigurable vaults can be utilized as described in
             International App. No. PCT/US2014/021629 filed on March 7, 2014 the entire
             disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.
             [00193]      A radiation opaque material can reduce the radiation passing through
             a structure (e.g., a wall, door, ceiling, enclosure, a series of these or combinations
             of these) formed of the material by about at least about 10 %, (e.g., at least about
             20%, at least about 30%, at least about 40%, at least about 50%, at least about
             60%, at least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about
             95%, at least about 96%, at least about 97%, at least about 98%, at least about
                                                     53

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             99%, at least about 99.9%, at least about 99.99%, at least about 99.999%) as
             compared to the incident radiation. Therefore, an enclosure made of a radiation
             opaque material can reduce the exposure of equipment/system/components by the
             same amount. Radiation opaque materials can include stainless steel, metals with
             Z values above 25 (e.g., lead, iron), concrete, dirt, sand and combinations thereof.
             Radiation opaque materials can include a barrier in the direction of the incident
             radiation of at least about 1mm (e.g., 5 mm, 10mm, 5 cm, 10 cm, 100cm, Im,
             10m).
             ELECTRON SOURCES
             [00194]     Electrons interact via Coulomb scattering and bremsstrahlung
             radiation produced by changes in the velocity of electrons. Electrons may be
             produced by radioactive nuclei that undergo beta decay, such as isotopes of
             iodine, cesium, technetium, and iridium. Alternatively, an electron gun can be
             used as an electron source via thermionic emission and accelerated through an
             accelerating potential. An electron gun generates electrons, accelerates them
             through a large potential (e.g., greater than about 500 thousand, greater than
             about 1million, greater than about 2 million, greater than about 5 million, greater
             than about 6 million, greater than about 7 million, greater than about 8 million,
             greater than about 9 million, or even greater than 10 million volts) and then scans
             them magnetically in the x-y plane, where the electrons are initially accelerated in
             the z direction down the tube and extracted through a foil window. Scanning the
             electron beam is useful for increasing the irradiation surface when irradiating
             materials, e.g., a biomass, that is conveyed through the scanned beam. Scanning
             the electron beam also distributes the thermal load homogenously on the window
             and helps reduce the foil window rupture due to local heating by the electron
             beam. Window foil rupture is a cause of significant down-time due to subsequent
             necessary repairs and re-starting the electron gun.
             [00195]     Various other irradiating devices may be used in the methods
             disclosed herein, including field ionization sources, electrostatic ion separators,
             field ionization generators, thermionic emission sources, microwave discharge
             ion sources, recirculating or static accelerators, dynamic linear accelerators, van
             de Graaff accelerators, and folded tandem accelerators. Such devices are
             disclosed, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 7,931,784 to Medoff, the complete
             disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                   54

WO 2014/176508                                                                 PCT/US2014/035467
             [00196]      A beam of electrons can be used as the radiation source. A beam of
             electrons has the advantages of high dose rates (e.g., 1, 5, or even 10 Mrad per
             second), high throughput, less containment, and less confinement equipment.
             Electron beams can also have high electrical efficiency (e.g., 80%), allowing for
             lower energy usage relative to other radiation methods, which can translate into a
             lower cost of operation and lower greenhouse gas emissions corresponding to the
             smaller amount of energy used. Electron beams can be generated, e.g., by
             electrostatic generators, cascade generators, transformer generators, low energy
             accelerators with a scanning system, low energy accelerators with a linear
             cathode, linear accelerators, and pulsed accelerators.
             [00197]      Electrons can also be more efficient at causing changes in the
             molecular structure of carbohydrate-containing materials, for example, by the
             mechanism of chain scission. In addition, electrons having energies of 0.5-10
             MeV can penetrate low density materials, such as the biomass materials
             described herein, e.g., materials having a bulk density of less than 0.5 g/cm3 , and
             a depth of 0.3-10 cm. Electrons as an ionizing radiation source can be useful,
             e.g., for relatively thin piles, layers or beds of materials, e.g., less than about 0.5
             inch, e.g., less than about 0.4 inch, 0.3 inch, 0.25 inch, or less than about 0.1 inch.
             In some embodiments, the energy of each electron of the electron beam is from
             about 0.3 MeV to about 2.0 MeV (million electron volts), e.g., from about 0.5
             MeV to about 1.5 MeV, or from about 0.7 MeV to about 1.25 MeV. Methods of
             irradiating materials are discussed in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 A1, filed
             October 18, 2011, the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by
             reference.
             [00198]      Electron beam irradiation devices may be procured commercially
             from Ion Beam Applications, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium or the Titan
             Corporation, San Diego, CA. Typical electron energies can be 0.5 MeV, 1 MeV,
             2 MeV, 4.5 MeV, 7.5 MeV, or 10 MeV. Typical electron beam irradiation device
             power can be 1 KW, 5 KW, 10 KW, 20 KW, 50 KW, 60 KW, 70 KW, 80 KW,
             90 KW, 100 KW, 125 KW, 150 KW, 175 KW, 200 KW, 250 KW, 300 KW, 350
             KW, 400 KW, 450 KW, 500 KW, 600 KW, 700 KW, 800 KW, 900 KW or even
             1000 KW.
             [00199]      Tradeoffs in considering electron beam irradiation device power
             specifications include cost to operate, capital costs, depreciation, and device
             footprint. Tradeoffs in considering exposure dose levels of electron beam
                                                     55

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             irradiation would be energy costs and environment, safety, and health (ESH)
             concerns. Typically, generators are housed in a vault, e.g., of lead or concrete,
             especially for production from X-rays that are generated in the process.
             Tradeoffs in considering electron energies include energy costs.
             [00200]      The electron beam irradiation device can produce either a fixed beam
             or a scanning beam. A scanning beam may be advantageous with large scan
             sweep length and high scan speeds, as this would effectively replace a large,
             fixed beam width. Further, available sweep widths of 0.5 m, 1 m, 2 m or more
             are available. The scanning beam is preferred in most embodiments described
             herein because of the larger scan width and reduced possibility of local heating
             and failure of the windows.
             ELECTRON GUNS - WINDOWS
             [00201]      The extraction system for an electron accelerator can include two
             window foils. Window foils are described in International App. No.
             PCT/US2013/064332 filed October 10, 2013 the complete disclosure of which is
             herein incorporated by reference. The cooling gas in the two foil window
             extraction system can be a pure gas or a mixture, for example, air, or a pure gas.
             In one embodiment the gas is an inert gas such as nitrogen, argon, helium and/or
             carbon dioxide. It is preferred to use a gas rather than a liquid since energy losses
             to the electron beam are minimized. Mixtures of pure gas can also be used, either
             pre-mixed or mixed in line prior to impinging on the windows or in the space
             between the windows. The cooling gas can be cooled, for example, by using a
             heat exchange system (e.g., a chiller) and/or by using boil off from a condensed
             gas (e.g., liquid nitrogen, liquid helium).
             [00202]      When using an enclosure, the enclosed conveyor can also be purged
             with an inert gas so as to maintain an atmosphere at a reduced oxygen level.
             Keeping oxygen levels low avoids the formation of ozone which in some
             instances is undesirable due to its reactive and toxic nature. For example, the
             oxygen can be less than about 20% (e.g., less than about 10%, less than about
             1%, less than about 0.1%, less than about 0.01%, or even less than about 0.001%
             oxygen). Purging can be done with an inert gas including, but not limited to,
             nitrogen, argon, helium or carbon dioxide. This can be supplied, for example,
             from a boil off of a liquid source (e.g., liquid nitrogen or helium), generated or
             separated from air in situ, or supplied from tanks. The inert gas can be
                                                    56

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             recirculated and any residual oxygen can be removed using a catalyst, such as a
             copper catalyst bed. Alternatively, combinations of purging, recirculating and
             oxygen removal can be done to keep the oxygen levels low.
             [00203]      The enclosure can also be purged with a reactive gas that can react
             with the biomass. This can be done before, during or after the irradiation process.
             The reactive gas can be, but is not limited to, nitrous oxide, ammonia, oxygen,
             ozone, hydrocarbons, aromatic compounds, amides, peroxides, azides, halides,
             oxyhalides, phosphides, phosphines, arsines, sulfides, thiols, boranes and/or
             hydrides. The reactive gas can be activated in the enclosure, e.g., by irradiation
             (e.g., electron beam, UV irradiation, microwave irradiation, heating, IR
             radiation), so that it reacts with the biomass. The biomass itself can be activated,
             for example, by irradiation. Preferably the biomass is activated by the electron
             beam, to produce radicals which then react with the activated or unactivated
             reactive gas, e.g., by radical coupling or quenching.
             [00204]      Purging gases supplied to an enclosed conveyor can also be cooled,
             for example, below about 25'C, below about 00 C, below about -40'C, below
             about -80'C, below about -120'C. For example, the gas can be boiled off from a
             compressed gas such as liquid nitrogen or sublimed from solid carbon dioxide.
             As an alternative example, the gas can be cooled by a chiller or part of or the
             entire conveyor can be cooled.
             HEATING AND THROUGHPUT DURING RADIATION TREATMENT
             [00205]      Several processes can occur in biomass when electrons from an
             electron beam interact with matter in inelastic collisions. For example, ionization
             of the material, chain scission of polymers in the material, cross linking of
             polymers in the material, oxidation of the material, generation of X-rays
             ("Bremsstrahlung") and vibrational excitation of molecules (e.g. phonon
             generation). Without being bound to a particular mechanism, the reduction in
             recalcitrance can be due to several of these inelastic collision effects, for
             example, ionization, chain scission of polymers, oxidation and phonon
             generation. Some of the effects (e.g., especially X-ray generation), necessitate
             shielding and engineering barriers, for example, enclosing the irradiation
             processes in a concrete (or other radiation opaque material) vault. Another effect
             of irradiation, vibrational excitation, is equivalent to heating up the sample.
                                                     57

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             Heating the sample by irradiation can help in recalcitrance reduction, but
             excessive heating can destroy the material, as will be explained below.
             [00206]      The adiabatic temperature rise (AT) from adsorption of ionizing
             radiation is given by the equation: AT = D/Cp : where D is the average dose in
             KGy, Cp is the heat capacity in J/g 1C, and AT is the change in temperature in 0C.
             A typical dry biomass material will have a heat capacity close to 2. Wet biomass
             will have a higher heat capacity dependent on the amount of water since the heat
             capacity of water is very high (4.19 J/g C). Metals have much lower heat
             capacities, for example, 304 stainless steel has a heat capacity of 0.5 J/g C. The
             temperature change due to the instant adsorption of radiation in a biomass and
             stainless steel for various doses of radiation is shown in Table 1.
             Table 1: Calculated Temperature increase for biomass and stainless steel.
                   Dose (Mrad)         Estimated Biomass AT ("C)          Steel AT ("C)
                        10                           50                         200
                        50                 250, Decomposition                  1000
                        100                500, Decomposition                  2000
                        150                750, Decomposition                  3000
                       200                 1000, Decomposition                 4000
             [00207]      High temperatures can destroy and or modify the biopolymers in
             biomass so that the polymers (e.g., cellulose) are unsuitable for further
             processing. A biomass subjected to high temperatures can become dark, sticky
             and give off odors indicating decomposition. The stickiness can even make the
             material hard to convey. The odors can be unpleasant and be a safety issue. In
             fact, keeping the biomass below about 200 'C has been found to be beneficial in
             the processes described herein (e.g., below about 190 'C, below about 180 'C,
             below about 170 'C, below about 160 'C, below about 150 'C, below about 140
             'C, below about 130 'C, below about 120 'C, below about 110 'C, between
             about 60 'C and 180 'C, between about 60 'C and 160 'C, between about 60 'C
             and 150 'C, between about 60 'C and 140 'C, between about 60 'C and 130 'C,
             between about 60 'C and 120 'C, between about 80 'C and 180 'C, between
             about 100 'C and 180 'C, between about 120 'C and 180 'C, between about 140
                                                   58

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             'C and 180 'C, between about 160 'C and 180 'C, between about 100 'C and 140
             'C, between about 80 'C and 120 C).
             [00208]      It has been found that irradiation above about 10 Mrad is desirable for
             the processes described herein (e.g., reduction of recalcitrance). A high
             throughput is also desirable so that the irradiation does not become a bottle neck
             in processing the biomass. The treatment is governed by a Dose rate equation: M
             = FP/D * time, where M is the mass of irradiated material (Kg), F is the fraction
             of power that is adsorbed (unit less), P is the emitted power (KW=Voltage in
             MeV * Current in mA), time is the treatment time (sec) and D is the adsorbed
             dose (KGy). In an exemplary process where the fraction of adsorbed power is
             fixed, the Power emitted is constant and a set dosage is desired, the throughput
             (e.g., M, the biomass processed) can be increased by increasing the irradiation
             time. However, increasing the irradiation time without allowing the material to
             cool, can excessively heat the material as exemplified by the calculations shown
             above. Since biomass has a low thermal conductivity (less than about 0.1 Wm-'K
             1), heat dissipation is slow, unlike, for example, metals (greater than about 10
             Wm-'K-1) which can dissipate energy quickly as long as there is a heat sink to
             transfer the energy to.
             ELECTRON GUNS - BEAM STOPS
             [00209]      In some embodiments the systems and methods include a beam stop
             (e.g., a shutter). For example, the beam stop can be used to quickly stop or
             reduce the irradiation of material without powering down the electron beam
             device. Alternatively the beam stop can be used while powering up the electron
             beam, e.g., the beam stop can stop the electron beam until a beam current of a
             desired level is achieved. The beam stop can be placed between the primary foil
             window and a secondary foil window. For example, the beam stop can be
             mounted so that it is movable, that is, so that it can be moved into and out of the
             beam path. Even partial coverage of the beam can be used, for example, to
             control the dose of irradiation. The beam stop can be mounted to the floor, to a
             conveyor for the biomass, to a wall, to the radiation device (e.g., at the scan
             horn), or to any structural support. Preferably, the beam stop is fixed in relation
             to the scan horn so that the beam can be effectively controlled by the beam stop.
             The beam stop can incorporate a hinge, a rail, wheels, slots, or other means
             allowing for its operation in moving into and out of the beam. The beam stop can
                                                    59

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             be made of any material that will stop at least 5% of the electrons, e.g., at least
             10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%,
             93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or even about 100% of the electrons.
             [00210]      The beam stop can be made of a metal including, but not limited to,
             stainless steel, lead, iron, molybdenum, silver, gold, titanium, aluminum, tin, or
             alloys of these, or laminates (layered materials) made with such metals (e.g.,
             metal-coated ceramic, metal-coated polymer, metal-coated composite,
             multilayered metal materials).
             [00211]      The beam stop can be cooled, for example, with a cooling fluid such
             as an aqueous solution or a gas. The beam stop can be partially or completely
             hollow, for example, with cavities. Interior spaces of the beam stop can be used
             for cooling fluids and gases. The beam stop can be of any shape, including flat,
             curved, round, oval, square, rectangular, beveled and wedged shapes.
             [00212]      The beam stop can have perforations so as to allow some electrons
             through, thus controlling (e.g., reducing) the levels of radiation across the whole
             area of the window, or in specific regions of the window. The beam stop can be a
             mesh formed, for example, from fibers or wires. Multiple beam stops can be
             used, together or independently, to control the irradiation. The beam stop can be
             remotely controlled, e.g., by radio signal or hard wired to a motor for moving the
             beam into or out of position.
             BIOMASS MATERIALS
             [00213]      Lignocellulosic materials include, but are not limited to, wood (e.g.,
             softwood, Pine softwood, Softwood, Softwood barks, Softwood stems, Spruce
             softwood, Hardwood, Willow Hardwood, aspen hardwood, Birch Hardwood,
             Hardwood barks, Hardwood stems, pine cones, pine needles), particle board,
             chemical pulps, mechanical pulps, paper, waste paper, forestry wastes (e.g.,
             sawdust, aspen wood, wood chips, leaves), grasses, (e.g., switchgrass,
             miscanthus, cord grass, reed canary grass, Coastal Bermuda grass), grain
             residues, (e.g., rice hulls, oat hulls, wheat chaff, barley hulls), agricultural waste
             (e.g., silage, canola straw, wheat straw, barley straw, oat straw, rice straw, jute,
             hemp, flax, bamboo, sisal, abaca, corn cobs, corn stover, soybean stover, corn
             fiber, alfalfa, hay, coconut hair, nut shells, palm and coconut oil byproducts),
             cotton, Cotton seed hairs, flax, sugar processing residues (e.g., bagasse, beet pulp,
             agave bagasse), algae, seaweed, manure (e.g., Solid cattle manure, Swine waste),
                                                     60

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             sewage, carrot processing waste, molasses spent wash, alfalfa biver and mixtures
             of any of these.
             [00214]     In some cases, the lignocellulosic material includes corncobs. Ground
             or hammermilled corncobs can be spread in a layer of relatively uniform
             thickness for irradiation, and after irradiation are easy to disperse in the medium
             for further processing. To facilitate harvest and collection, in some cases the
             entire corn plant is used, including the corn stalk, corn kernels, and in some cases
             even the root system of the plant.
             [00215]     Advantageously, no additional nutrients (other than a nitrogen source,
             e.g., urea or ammonia) are required during fermentation of corncobs or cellulosic
             or lignocellulosic materials containing significant amounts of corncobs.
             [00216]     Corncobs, before and after comminution, are also easier to convey and
             disperse, and have a lesser tendency to form explosive mixtures in air than other
             cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials such as hay and grasses.
             [00217]     Cellulosic materials include, for example, paper, paper products,
             paper waste, paper pulp, pigmented papers, loaded papers, coated papers, filled
             papers, magazines, printed matter (e.g., books, catalogs, manuals, labels,
             calendars, greeting cards, brochures, prospectuses, newsprint), printer paper,
             polycoated paper, card stock, cardboard, paperboard, materials having a high a
             cellulose content such as cotton, and mixtures of any of these. For example,
             paper products as described in U.S. App. No. 13/396,365 ("Magazine
             Feedstocks" by Medoff et al., filed February 14, 2012), the full disclosure of
             which is incorporated herein by reference.
             [00218]     Cellulosic materials can also include lignocellulosic materials which
             have been partially or fully de-lignified.
             [00219]     In some instances other biomass materials can be utilized, for
             example, starchy materials. Starchy materials include starch itself, e.g., corn
             starch, wheat starch, potato starch or rice starch, a derivative of starch, or a
             material that includes starch, such as an edible food product or a crop. For
             example, the starchy material can be arracacha, buckwheat, banana, barley,
             cassava, kudzu, ocra, sago, sorghum, regular household potatoes, sweet potato,
             taro, yams, or one or more beans, such as favas, lentils or peas. Blends of any
             two or more starchy materials are also starchy materials. Mixtures of starchy,
             cellulosic and or lignocellulosic materials can also be used. For example, a
             biomass can be an entire plant, a part of a plant or different parts of a plant, e.g., a
                                                    61

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             wheat plant, cotton plant, a corn plant, rice plant or a tree. The starchy materials
             can be treated by any of the methods described herein.
             [00220]      Microbial materials include, but are not limited to, any naturally
             occurring or genetically modified microorganism or organism that contains or is
             capable of providing a source of carbohydrates (e.g., cellulose), for example,
             protists, e.g., animal protists (e.g., protozoa such as flagellates, amoeboids,
             ciliates, and sporozoa) and plant protists (e.g., algae such alveolates,
             chlorarachniophytes, cryptomonads, euglenids, glaucophytes, haptophytes, red
             algae, stramenopiles, and viridiplantae). Other examples include seaweed,
             plankton (e.g., macroplankton, mesoplankton, microplankton, nanoplankton,
             picoplankton, and femtoplankton), phytoplankton, bacteria (e.g., gram positive
             bacteria, gram negative bacteria, and extremophiles), yeast and/or mixtures of
             these. In some instances, microbial biomass can be obtained from natural
             sources, e.g., the ocean, lakes, bodies of water, e.g., salt water or fresh water, or
             on land. Alternatively or in addition, microbial biomass can be obtained from
             culture systems, e.g., large scale dry and wet culture and fermentation systems.
             [00221]      In other embodiments, the biomass materials, such as cellulosic,
             starchy and lignocellulosic feedstock materials, can be obtained from transgenic
             microorganisms and plants that have been modified with respect to a wild type
             variety. Such modifications may be, for example, through the iterative steps of
             selection and breeding to obtain desired traits in a plant. Furthermore, the plants
             can have had genetic material removed, modified, silenced and/or added with
             respect to the wild type variety. For example, genetically modified plants can be
             produced by recombinant DNA methods, where genetic modifications include
             introducing or modifying specific genes from parental varieties, or, for example,
             by using transgenic breeding wherein a specific gene or genes are introduced to a
             plant from a different species of plant and/or bacteria. Another way to create
             genetic variation is through mutation breeding wherein new alleles are artificially
             created from endogenous genes. The artificial genes can be created by a variety
             of ways including treating the plant or seeds with, for example, chemical
             mutagens (e.g., using alkylating agents, epoxides, alkaloids, peroxides,
             formaldehyde), irradiation (e.g., X-rays, gamma rays, neutrons, beta particles,
             alpha particles, protons, deuterons, UV radiation) and temperature shocking or
             other external stressing and subsequent selection techniques. Other methods of
             providing modified genes is through error prone PCR and DNA shuffling
                                                     62

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             followed by insertion of the desired modified DNA into the desired plant or seed.
             Methods of introducing the desired genetic variation in the seed or plant include,
             for example, the use of a bacterial carrier, biolistics, calcium phosphate
             precipitation, electroporation, gene splicing, gene silencing, lipofection,
             microinjection and viral carriers. Additional genetically modified materials have
             been described in U.S. Application Serial No 13/396,369 filed February 14, 2012
             the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
             Any of the methods described herein can be practiced with mixtures of any
             biomass materials described herein.
             BIOMASS MATERIAL PREPARATION - MECHANICAL
             TREATMENTS
             [00222]      The biomass can be in a dry form, for example, with less than about
             35% moisture content (e.g., less than about 20 %, less than about 15 %, less than
             about 10 % less than about 5 %, less than about 4%, less than about 3 %, less
             than about 2 % or even less than about 1 %). The biomass can also be delivered
             in a wet state, for example, as a wet solid, a slurry or a suspension with at least
             about 10 wt.% solids (e.g., at least about 20 wt.%, at least about 30 wt. %, at least
             about 40 wt.%, at least about 50 wt.%, at least about 60 wt.%, at least about 70
             wt.%).
             [00223]      The processes disclosed herein can utilize low bulk density materials,
             for example, cellulosic or lignocellulosic feedstocks that have been physically
             pretreated to have a bulk density of less than about 0.75 g/cm3, e.g., less than
             about 0.7, 0.65, 0.60, 0.50, 0.35, 0.25, 0.20, 0.15, 0.10, 0.05 or less, e.g., less than
             about 0.025 g/cm 3 . Bulk density is determined using ASTM D1895B. Briefly,
             the method involves filling a measuring cylinder of known volume with a sample
             and obtaining a weight of the sample. The bulk density is calculated by dividing
             the weight of the sample in grams by the known volume of the cylinder in cubic
             centimeters. If desired, low bulk density materials can be densified, for example,
             by methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,971,809 to Medoff, the full disclosure of
             which is hereby incorporated by reference.
             [00224]      In some cases, the pre-treatment processing includes screening of the
             biomass material. Screening can be through a mesh or perforated plate with a
             desired opening size, for example, less than about 6.35 mm (1/4 inch, 0.25 inch),
             (e.g., less than about 3.18 mm (1/8 inch, 0.125 inch), less than about 1.59 mm
                                                    63

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             (1/16 inch, 0.0625 inch), is less than about 0.79 mm (1/32 inch, 0.03125 inch),
             e.g., less than about 0.51 mm (1/50 inch, 0.02000 inch), less than about 0.40 mm
             (1/64 inch, 0.015625 inch), less than about 0.23 mm (0.009 inch), less than about
             0.20 mm (1/128 inch, 0.0078125 inch), less than about 0.18 mm (0.007 inch),
             less than about 0.13 mm (0.005 inch), or even less than about 0.10 mm (1/256
             inch, 0.00390625 inch)). In one configuration the desired biomass falls through
             the perforations or screen and thus biomass larger than the perforations or screen
             are not irradiated. These larger materials can be re-processed, for example, by
             comminuting, or they can simply be removed from processing. In another
             configuration, material that is larger than the perforations is irradiated and the
             smaller material is removed by the screening process or recycled. In this kind of
             a configuration, the conveyor itself (for example, a part of the conveyor) can be
             perforated or made with a mesh. For example, in one particular embodiment the
             biomass material may be wet and the perforations or mesh allow water to drain
             away from the biomass before irradiation.
             [00225]      Screening of material can also be by a manual method, for example,
             by an operator or mechanoid (e.g., a robot equipped with a color, reflectivity or
             other sensor) that removes unwanted material. Screening can also be by
             magnetic screening wherein a magnet is disposed near the conveyed material and
             the magnetic material is removed magnetically.
             [00226]      Optional pre-treatment processing can include heating the material.
             For example, a portion of the conveyor can be sent through a heated zone. The
             heated zone can be created, for example, by IR radiation, microwaves,
             combustion (e.g., gas, coal, oil, biomass), resistive heating and/or inductive coils.
             The heat can be applied from at least one side or more than one side, can be
             continuous or periodic and can be for only a portion of the material or all the
             material. For example, a portion of the conveying trough can be heated by use of
             a heating jacket. Heating can be, for example, for the purpose of drying the
             material. In the case of drying the material, this can also be facilitated, with or
             without heating, by the movement of a gas (e.g., air, oxygen, nitrogen, He, C0 2 ,
             Argon) over and/or through the biomass as it is being conveyed.
             [00227]      Optionally, pre-treatment processing can include cooling the material.
             Cooling material is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,900,857 to Medoff, the
             disclosure of which in incorporated herein by reference. For example, cooling
             can be by supplying a cooling fluid, for example, water (e.g., with glycerol), or
                                                   64

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             nitrogen (e.g., liquid nitrogen) to the bottom of the conveying trough.
             Alternatively, a cooling gas, for example, chilled nitrogen can be blown over the
             biomass materials or under the conveying system.
             [00228]     Another optional pre-treatment processing method can include adding
             a material to the biomass. The additional material can be added by, for example,
             by showering, sprinkling and or pouring the material onto the biomass as it is
             conveyed. Materials that can be added include, for example, metals, ceramics
             and/or ions as described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0105119 Al (filed October
             26, 2009) and U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0159569 Al (filed December 16, 2009),
             the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Optional
             materials that can be added include acids and bases. Other materials that can be
             added are oxidants (e.g., peroxides, chlorates), polymers, polymerizable
             monomers (e.g., containing unsaturated bonds), water, catalysts, enzymes and/or
             organisms. Materials can be added, for example, in pure form, as a solution in a
             solvent (e.g., water or an organic solvent) and/or as a solution. In some cases the
             solvent is volatile and can be made to evaporate e.g., by heating and/or blowing
             gas as previously described. The added material may form a uniform coating on
             the biomass or be a homogeneous mixture of different components (e.g., biomass
             and additional material). The added material can modulate the subsequent
             irradiation step by increasing the efficiency of the irradiation, damping the
             irradiation or changing the effect of the irradiation (e.g., from electron beams to
             X-rays or heat). The method may have no impact on the irradiation but may be
             useful for further downstream processing. The added material may help in
             conveying the material, for example, by lowering dust levels.
             [00229]     Biomass can be delivered to the conveyor (e.g., the vibratory
             conveyors used in the vaults herein described) by a belt conveyor, a pneumatic
             conveyor, a screw conveyor, a hopper, a pipe, manually or by a combination of
             these. The biomass can, for example, be dropped, poured and/or placed onto the
             conveyor by any of these methods. In some embodiments the material is
             delivered to the conveyor using an enclosed material distribution system to help
             maintain a low oxygen atmosphere and/or control dust and fines. Lofted or air
             suspended biomass fines and dust are undesirable because these can form an
             explosion hazard or damage the window foils of an electron gun (if such a device
             is used for treating the material).
                                                    65

WO 2014/176508                                                                  PCT/US2014/035467
             [00230]      The material can be leveled to form a uniform thickness between
             about 0.0312 and 5 inches (e.g., between about 0.0625 and 2.000 inches, between
             about 0.125 and 1 inches, between about 0.125 and 0.5 inches, between about 0.3
             and 0.9 inches, between about 0.2 and 0.5 inches between about 0.25 and 1.0
             inches, between about 0.25 and 0.5 inches, 0.100 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.150 +/
             0.025 inches, 0.200 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.250 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.300 +/- 0.025
             inches, 0.350 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.400 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.450 +/- 0.025 inches,
             0.500 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.550 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.600 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.700 +/
             0.025 inches, 0.750 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.800 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.850 +/- 0.025
             inches, 0.900 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.900 +/- 0.025 inches.
             [00231]      Generally, it is preferred to convey the material as quickly as possible
             through the electron beam to maximize throughput. For example, the material
             can be conveyed at rates of at least 1 ft./min, e.g., at least 2 ft./min, at least 3
             ft./min, at least 4 ft./min, at least 5 ft./min, at least 10 ft./min, at least 15 ft./min,
             20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 ft./min. The rate of conveying is related to the beam
             current, for example, for a       inch thick biomass and 100 mA, the conveyor can
             move at about 20 ft./min to provide a useful irradiation dosage, at 50 mA the
             conveyor can move at about 10 ft./min to provide approximately the same
             irradiation dosage.
             [00232]      After the biomass material has been conveyed through the radiation
             zone, optional post-treatment processing can be done. The optional post
             treatment processing can, for example, be a process described with respect to the
             pre-irradiation processing. For example, the biomass can be screened, heated,
             cooled, and/or combined with additives. Uniquely to post-irradiation, quenching
             of the radicals can occur, for example, quenching of radicals by the addition of
             fluids or gases (e.g., oxygen, nitrous oxide, ammonia, liquids), using pressure,
             heat, and/or the addition of radical scavengers. For example, the biomass can be
             conveyed out of the enclosed conveyor and exposed to a gas (e.g., oxygen) where
             it is quenched, forming carboxylated groups. In one embodiment, the biomass is
             exposed during irradiation to the reactive gas or fluid. Quenching of biomass that
             has been irradiated is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8,083,906 to Medoff, the entire
             disclosure of which is incorporate herein by reference.
             [00233]      If desired, one or more mechanical treatments can be used in addition
             to irradiation to further reduce the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing
             material. These processes can be applied before, during and or after irradiation.
                                                      66

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             [00234]      In some cases, the mechanical treatment may include an initial
             preparation of the feedstock as received, e.g., size reduction of materials, such as
             by comminution, e.g., cutting, grinding, shearing, pulverizing or chopping. For
             example, in some cases, loose feedstock (e.g., recycled paper, starchy materials,
             or switchgrass) is prepared by shearing or shredding. Mechanical treatment may
             reduce the bulk density of the carbohydrate-containing material, increase the
             surface area of the carbohydrate-containing material and/or decrease one or more
             dimensions of the carbohydrate-containing material.
             [00235]      Alternatively, or in addition, the feedstock material can be treated
             with another treatment, for example, chemical treatments, such as with an acid
             (HCl, H 2 SO 4 , H 3 PO4), a base (e.g., KOH and NaOH), a chemical oxidant (e.g.,
             peroxides, chlorates, ozone), irradiation, steam explosion, pyrolysis, sonication,
             oxidation, chemical treatment. The treatments can be in any order and in any
             sequence and combinations. For example, the feedstock material can first be
             physically treated by one or more treatment methods, e.g., chemical treatment
             including and in combination with acid hydrolysis (e.g., utilizing HCl, H2 SO 4 ,
             H3 PO4), radiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis or steam explosion, and then
             mechanically treated. This sequence can be advantageous since materials treated
             by one or more of the other treatments, e.g., irradiation or pyrolysis, tend to be
             more brittle and, therefore, it may be easier to further change the structure of the
             material by mechanical treatment. As another example, a feedstock material can
             be conveyed through ionizing radiation using a conveyor as described herein and
             then mechanically treated. Chemical treatment can remove some or all of the
             lignin (for example, chemical pulping) and can partially or completely hydrolyze
             the material. The methods also can be used with pre-hydrolyzed material. The
             methods also can be used with material that has not been pre hydrolyzed The
             methods can be used with mixtures of hydrolyzed and non-hydrolyzed materials,
             for example, with about 50% or more non-hydrolyzed material, with about 60%
             or more non- hydrolyzed material, with about 70% or more non-hydrolyzed
             material, with about 80% or more non-hydrolyzed material or even with 90% or
             more non-hydrolyzed material.
             [00236]      In addition to size reduction, which can be performed initially and/or
             later in processing, mechanical treatment can also be advantageous for "opening
             up," "stressing," breaking or shattering the carbohydrate-containing materials,
                                                      67

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             making the cellulose of the materials more susceptible to chain scission and/or
             disruption of crystalline structure during the physical treatment.
             [00237]      Methods of mechanically treating the carbohydrate-containing
             material include, for example, milling or grinding. Milling may be performed
             using, for example, a hammer mill, ball mill, colloid mill, conical or cone mill,
             disk mill, edge mill, Wiley mill, grist mill or other mill. Grinding may be
             performed using, for example, a cutting/impact type grinder. Some exemplary
             grinders include stone grinders, pin grinders, coffee grinders, and burr grinders.
             Grinding or milling may be provided, for example, by a reciprocating pin or other
             element, as is the case in a pin mill. Other mechanical treatment methods include
             mechanical ripping or tearing, other methods that apply pressure to the fibers, and
             air attrition milling. Suitable mechanical treatments further include any other
             technique that continues the disruption of the internal structure of the material
             that was initiated by the previous processing steps.
             [00238]      Mechanical feed preparation systems can be configured to produce
             streams with specific characteristics such as, for example, specific maximum
             sizes, specific length-to-width, or specific surface areas ratios. Physical
             preparation can increase the rate of reactions, improve the movement of material
             on a conveyor, improve the irradiation profile of the material, improve the
             radiation uniformity of the material, or reduce the processing time required by
             opening up the materials and making them more accessible to processes and/or
             reagents, such as reagents in a solution.
             [00239]      The bulk density of feedstocks can be controlled (e.g., increased). In
             some situations, it can be desirable to prepare a low bulk density material, e.g., by
             densifying the material (e.g., densification can make it easier and less costly to
             transport to another site) and then reverting the material to a lower bulk density
             state (e.g., after transport). The material can be densified, for example, from less
             than about 0.2 g/cc to more than about 0.9 g/cc (e.g., less than about 0.3 to more
             than about 0.5 g/cc, less than about 0.3 to more than about 0.9 g/cc, less than
             about 0.5 to more than about 0.9 g/cc, less than about 0.3 to more than about 0.8
             g/cc, less than about 0.2 to more than about 0.5 g/cc). For example, the material
             can be densified by the methods and equipment disclosed in U.S. Patent No.
             7,932,065 to Medoff and International Publication No. WO 2008/073186 (which
             was filed October 26, 2007, was published in English, and which designated the
             United States), the full disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                                   68

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             Densified materials can be processed by any of the methods described herein, or
             any material processed by any of the methods described herein can be
             subsequently densified.
             [00240]      In some embodiments, the material to be processed is in the form of a
             fibrous material that includes fibers provided by shearing a fiber source. For
             example, the shearing can be performed with a rotary knife cutter.
             [00241]      For example, a fiber source, e.g., that is recalcitrant or that has had its
             recalcitrance level reduced, can be sheared, e.g., in a rotary knife cutter, to
             provide a first fibrous material. The first fibrous material is passed through a first
             screen, e.g., having an average opening size of 1.59 mm or less (1/16 inch,
             0.0625 inch), provide a second fibrous material. If desired, the fiber source can
             be cut prior to the shearing, e.g., with a shredder. For example, when a paper is
             used as the fiber source, the paper can be first cut into strips that are, e.g., 1/4- to
             1/2-inch wide, using a shredder, e.g., a counter-rotating screw shredder, such as
             those manufactured by Munson (Utica, N.Y.). As an alternative to shredding, the
             paper can be reduced in size by cutting to a desired size using a guillotine cutter.
             For example, the guillotine cutter can be used to cut the paper into sheets that are,
             e.g., 10 inches wide by 12 inches long.
             [00242]      In some embodiments, the shearing of the fiber source and the passing
             of the resulting first fibrous material through a first screen are performed
             concurrently. The shearing and the passing can also be performed in a batch-type
             process.
             [00243]      For example, a rotary knife cutter can be used to concurrently shear
             the fiber source and screen the first fibrous material. A rotary knife cutter
             includes a hopper that can be loaded with a shredded fiber source prepared by
             shredding a fiber source.
             [00244]      In some implementations, the feedstock is physically treated prior to
             saccharification and/or fermentation. Physical treatment processes can include
             one or more of any of those described herein, such as mechanical treatment,
             chemical treatment, irradiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis or steam
             explosion. Treatment methods can be used in combinations of two, three, four, or
             even all of these technologies (in any order). When more than one treatment
             method is used, the methods can be applied at the same time or at different times.
             Other processes that change a molecular structure of a biomass feedstock may
             also be used, alone or in combination with the processes disclosed herein.
                                                    69

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             [00245]     Mechanical treatments that may be used, and the characteristics of the
             mechanically treated carbohydrate-containing materials, are described in further
             detail in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 A1, filed October 18, 2011, the full
             disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
             [00246]     The mechanical treatments described herein can also be applied to
             processing of PLA and PLA based materials.
             SONICATION, PYROLYSIS, OXIDATION, STEAM EXPLOSION
             [00247]     If desired, one or more sonication, pyrolysis, oxidative, or steam
             explosion processes can be used instead of or in addition to irradiation to reduce
             or further reduce the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing material or
             process PLA and/or PLA based materials. For example, these processes can be
             applied before, during and or after irradiation. These processes are described in
             detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7,932,065 to Medoff, the full disclosure of which is
             incorporated herein by reference.
             HEAT TREATMENT OF BIOMASS
             [00248]     Alternately, or in addition to the biomass may be heat treated for up to
             twelve hours at temperatures ranging from about 90'C to about 160'C.
             Optionally, this heat treatment step is performed after biomass has been irradiated
             with an electron beam. The amount of time for the heat treatment is up to 9
             hours, alternately up to 6 hours, optionally up to 4 hours and further up to about 2
             hours. The treatment time can be up to as little as 30 minutes when the mass may
             be effectively heated.
             [00249]     The heat treatment can be performed 90'C to about 160'C or,
             optionally, at 100 to 150 or, alternatively, at 120 to 140 'C. The biomass is
             suspended in water such that the biomass content is 10 to 75 wt. %in water. In
             the case of the biomass being the irradiated biomass water is added and the heat
             treatment performed.
             [00250]     The heat treatment is performed in an aqueous suspension or mixture
             of the biomass. The amount of biomass is 10 to 90 wt. % of the total mixture,
             alternatively 20 to 70 wt. %or optionally 25 to 50 wt. %. The irradiated biomass
             may have minimal water content so water must be added prior to the heat
             treatment.
                                                    70

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             [00251]      Since at temperatures above 100 'C there will be pressure vessel
             required to accommodate the pressure due to the vaporized of water. The process
             for the heat treatment may be batch, continuous, semi-continuous or other reactor
             configurations. The continuous reactor configuration may be a tubular reactor
             and may include device(s) within the tube which will facilitate heat transfer and
             mixing/suspension of the biomass. These tubular devices may include a one or
             more static mixers. The heat may also be put into the system by direct injection
             of steam.
             USE OF TREATED BIOMASS MATERIAL
             [00252]      Using the methods described herein, a starting biomass material (e.g.,
             plant biomass, animal biomass, paper, and municipal waste biomass) can be used
             as feedstock to produce useful intermediates and products such as organic acids,
             salts of organic acids, hydroxy-carboxylic acids, PLA, acid anhydrides, esters of
             organic acids and fuels, e.g., fuels for internal combustion engines or feedstocks
             for fuel cells. Systems and processes are described herein that can use as
             feedstock cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic materials that are readily available, but
             often can be difficult to process, e.g., municipal waste streams and waste paper
             streams, such as streams that include newspaper, kraft paper, corrugated paper or
             mixtures of these.
             [00253]      In order to convert the feedstock to a form that can be readily
             processed, the glucan- or xylan-containing cellulose in the feedstock can be
             hydrolyzed to low molecular weight carbohydrates, such as sugars, by a
             saccharifying agent, e.g., an enzyme or acid, a process referred to as
             saccharification. The low molecular weight carbohydrates can then be used, for
             example, in an existing manufacturing plant, such as a single cell protein plant,
             an enzyme manufacturing plant, or a fuel plant, e.g., an ethanol manufacturing
             facility.
             [00254]      The feedstock can be hydrolyzed using an enzyme, e.g., by combining
             the materials and the enzyme in a solvent, e.g., in an aqueous solution.
             [00255]      Alternatively, the enzymes can be supplied by organisms that break
             down biomass, such as the cellulose and/or the lignin portions of the biomass,
             contain or manufacture various cellulolytic enzymes (cellulases), ligninases or
             various small molecule biomass-degrading metabolites. These enzymes may be a
             complex of enzymes that act synergistically to degrade crystalline cellulose or the
                                                    71

WO 2014/176508                                                                 PCT/US2014/035467
             lignin portions of biomass. Examples of cellulolytic enzymes include:
             endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and cellobiases (beta-glucosidases).
             [00256]      During saccharification a cellulosic substrate can be initially
             hydrolyzed by endoglucanases at random locations producing oligomeric
             intermediates. These intermediates are then substrates for exo-splitting
             glucanases such as cellobiohydrolase to produce cellobiose from the ends of the
             cellulose polymer. Cellobiose is a water-soluble 1,4-linked dimer of glucose.
             Finally, cellobiase cleaves cellobiose to yield glucose. The efficiency (e.g., time
             to hydrolyze and/or completeness of hydrolysis) of this process depends on the
             recalcitrance of the cellulosic material.
             INTERMEDIATES AND PRODUCTS
             [00257]      Using the processes described herein, the biomass material can be
             converted to one or more products, such as energy, fuels, foods and materials.
             Specific examples of products include, but are not limited to, hydrogen, sugars
             (e.g., glucose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose, fructose, disaccharides,
             oligosaccharides and polysaccharides), alcohols (e.g., monohydric alcohols or
             dihydric alcohols, such as ethanol, n-propanol, isobutanol, sec-butanol, tert
             butanol or n-butanol), hydrated or hydrous alcohols (e.g., containing greater than
             10%, 20%, 30% or even greater than 40% water), biodiesel, organic acids,
             hydrocarbons (e.g., methane, ethane, propane, isobutene, pentane, n-hexane,
             biodiesel, bio-gasoline and mixtures thereof), co-products (e.g., proteins, such as
             cellulolytic proteins (enzymes) or single cell proteins), and mixtures of any of
             these in any combination or relative concentration, and optionally in combination
             with any additives (e.g., fuel additives). Other examples include carboxylic
             acids, salts of a carboxylic acid, a mixture of carboxylic acids and salts of
             carboxylic acids and esters of carboxylic acids (e.g., methyl, ethyl and n-propyl
             esters), ketones (e.g., acetone), aldehydes (e.g., acetaldehyde), alpha and beta
             unsaturated acids (e.g., acrylic acid) and olefins (e.g., ethylene). Other alcohols
             and alcohol derivatives include propanol, propylene glycol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,3
             propanediol, sugar alcohols (e.g., erythritol, glycol, glycerol, sorbitol threitol,
             arabitol, ribitol, mannitol, dulcitol, fucitol, iditol, isomalt, maltitol, lactitol, xylitol
             and other polyols), and methyl or ethyl esters of any of these alcohols. Other
             products include methyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, lactic acid, PLA, citric
             acid, formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, succinic acid, valeric
                                                     72

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             acid, caproic acid, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oxalic
             acid, malonic acid, glutaric acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, glycolic acid, gamma
             hydroxybutyric acid, and mixtures thereof, salts of any of these acids, mixtures of
             any of the acids and their respective salts.
             [00258]     Any combination of the above products with each other, and/or of the
             above products with other products, which other products may be made by the
             processes described herein or otherwise, may be packaged together and sold as
             products. The products may be combined, e.g., mixed, blended or co-dissolved,
             or may simply be packaged or sold together.
             [00259]     Any of the products or combinations of products described herein may
             be sanitized or sterilized prior to selling the products, e.g., after purification or
             isolation or even after packaging, to neutralize one or more potentially
             undesirable contaminants that could be present in the product(s). Such sanitation
             can be done with electron bombardment, for example, be at a dosage of less than
             about 20 Mrad, e.g., from about 0.1 to 15 Mrad, from about 0.5 to 7 Mrad, or
             from about 1 to 3 Mrad.
             [00260]     The processes described herein can produce various by-product
             streams useful for generating steam and electricity to be used in other parts of the
             plant (co-generation) or sold on the open market. For example, steam generated
             from burning by-product streams can be used in a distillation process. As another
             example, electricity generated from burning by-product streams can be used to
             power electron beam generators used in pretreatment.
             [00261]     The by-products used to generate steam and electricity are derived
             from a number of sources throughout the process. For example, anaerobic
             digestion of wastewater can produce a biogas high in methane and a small
             amount of waste biomass (sludge). As another example, post-saccharification
             and/or post-distillate solids (e.g., unconverted lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose
             remaining from the pretreatment and primary processes) can be used, e.g.,
             burned, as a fuel.
             [00262]     Other intermediates and products, including food and pharmaceutical
             products, are described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0124583 Al, published May
             20, 2010, to Medoff, the full disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by
             reference herein.
                                                    73

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             LIGNIN DERIVED PRODUCTS
             [00263]      The spent biomass (e.g., spent lignocellulosic material) from
             lignocellulosic processing by the methods described are expected to have a high
             lignin content and in addition to being useful for producing energy through
             combustion in a Co-Generation plant, may have uses as other valuable products.
             For example, the lignin can be used as captured as a plastic, or it can be
             synthetically upgraded to other plastics. In some instances, it can also be
             converted to lignosulfonates, which can be utilized as binders, dispersants,
             emulsifiers or as sequestrants.
             [00264]      When used as a binder, the lignin or a lignosulfonate can, e.g., be
             utilized in coal briquettes, in ceramics, for binding carbon black, for binding
             fertilizers and herbicides, as a dust suppressant, in the making of plywood and
             particle board, for binding animal feeds, as a binder for fiberglass, as a binder in
             linoleum paste and as a soil stabilizer.
             [00265]      As a dispersant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g.,
             concrete mixes, clay and ceramics, dyes and pigments, leather tanning and in
             gypsum board.
             [00266]      As an emulsifier, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in
             asphalt, pigments and dyes, pesticides and wax emulsions.
             [00267]      As a sequestrant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in
             micro-nutrient systems, cleaning compounds and water treatment systems, e.g.,
             for boiler and cooling systems.
             [00268]      For energy production lignin generally has a higher energy content
             than holocellulose (cellulose and hemicellulose) since it contains more carbon
             than holocellulose. For example, dry lignin can have an energy content of
             between about 11,000 and 12,500 BTU per pound, compared to 7,000 an 8,000
             BTU per pound of holocellulose. As such, lignin can be densified and converted
             into briquettes and pellets for burning. For example, the lignin can be converted
             into pellets by any method described herein. For a slower burning pellet or
             briquette, the lignin can be crosslinked, such as applying a radiation dose of
             between about 0.5 Mrad and 5 Mrad. Crosslinking can make a slower burning
             form factor. The form factor, such as a pellet or briquette, can be converted to a
             "synthetic coal" or charcoal by pyrolyzing in the absence of air, e.g., at between
             400 and 950 'C. Prior to pyrolyzing, it can be desirable to crosslink the lignin to
             maintain structural integrity.
                                                    74

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             [00269]       Co-generation using spent biomass is described in International App.
             No. PCT/US2014/021634 filed March 7, 2014, the entire disclosure therein is
             herein incorporated by reference.
             [00270]       Lignin derived products can also be combined with PLA and PLA
             derived products. (e.g., PLA that has been produced as described herein). For
             example, lignin and lignin derived products can be blended, grafted to or
             otherwise combined and/or mixed with PLA. The lignin can, for example, be
             useful for strengthening, plasticizing or otherwise modifying the PLA.
             SACCHARIFICATION
             [00271]       The treated biomass materials can be saccharified, generally by
             combining the material and a cellulase enzyme in a fluid medium, e.g., an
             aqueous solution. In some cases, the material is boiled, steeped, or cooked in hot
             water prior to saccharification, as described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577
             Al by Medoff and Masterman, published on April 26, 2012, the entire contents
             of which are incorporated herein.
             [00272]       The saccharification may be done by inoculating a raw sugar mixture
             produced by saccharifying a reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic material to
             produce a hydroxy-carboxylic acid. The hydroxy-carboxylic acid can be selected
             from the group glycolic acid, D-lactic acid, L-lactic acid, D-malic acid, L-malic,
             citric acid and D-tartaric acid, L-tartaric acid, and meso-tartaric acid. The raw
             sugar mixture can be the reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic material which was
             processed by irradiating the lignocellulosic material with an electron beam.
             [00273]       The saccharification process can be partially or completely performed
             in a tank (e.g., a tank having a volume of at least 4000, 40,000, or 500,000 L) in a
             manufacturing plant, and/or can be partially or completely performed in transit,
             e.g., in a rail car, tanker truck, or in a supertanker or the hold of a ship. The time
             required for complete saccharification will depend on the process conditions and
             the carbohydrate-containing material and enzyme used. If saccharification is
             performed in a manufacturing plant under controlled conditions, the cellulose
             may be substantially entirely converted to sugar, e.g., glucose in about 12-96
             hours. If saccharification is performed partially or completely in transit,
             saccharification may take longer.
             [00274]       It is generally preferred that the tank contents be mixed during
             saccharification, e.g., using jet mixing as described in International App. No.
                                                      75

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             PCT/US2010/035331, filed May 18, 2010, which was published in English as
             WO 2010/135380 and designated the United States, the full disclosure of which
             is incorporated by reference herein.
             [00275]      The addition of surfactants can enhance the rate of saccharification.
             Examples of surfactants include non-ionic surfactants, such as a Tween@ 20 or
             Tween 80 polyethylene glycol surfactants, ionic surfactants, or amphoteric
             surfactants.
             [00276]      It is generally preferred that the concentration of the sugar solution
             resulting from saccharification be relatively high, e.g., greater than 40%, or
             greater than 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or even greater than 95% by weight. Water may
             be removed, e.g., by evaporation, to increase the concentration of the sugar
             solution. This reduces the volume to be shipped, and also inhibits microbial
             growth in the solution.
             [00277]      Alternatively, sugar solutions of lower concentrations may be used, in
             which case it may be desirable to add an antimicrobial additive, e.g., a broad
             spectrum antibiotic, in a low concentration, e.g., 50 to 150 ppm. Other suitable
             antibiotics include amphotericin B, ampicillin, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin,
             gentamicin, hygromycin B, kanamycin, neomycin, penicillin, puromycin,
             streptomycin. Antibiotics will inhibit growth of microorganisms during transport
             and storage, and can be used at appropriate concentrations, e.g., between 15 and
             1000 ppm by weight, e.g., between 25 and 500 ppm, or between 50 and 150 ppm.
             If desired, an antibiotic can be included even if the sugar concentration is
             relatively high. Alternatively, other additives with anti-microbial of preservative
             properties may be used. Preferably the antimicrobial additive(s) are food-grade.
             [00278]      A relatively high concentration solution can be obtained by limiting
             the amount of water added to the carbohydrate-containing material with the
             enzyme. The concentration can be controlled, e.g., by controlling how much
             saccharification takes place. For example, concentration can be increased by
             adding more carbohydrate-containing material to the solution. In order to keep
             the sugar that is being produced in solution, a surfactant can be added, e.g., one
             of those discussed above. Solubility can also be increased by increasing the
             temperature of the solution. For example, the solution can be maintained at a
             temperature of 40-50'C, 60-80'C, or even higher.
                                                     76

WO 2014/176508                                                                  PCT/US2014/035467
             SACCHARIFYING AGENTS
             [00279]     Suitable cellulolytic enzymes include cellulases from species in the
             genera Bacillus, Coprinus, Myceliophthora, Cephalosporium,Scytalidium,
             Penicillium,Aspergillus, Pseudomonas,Humicola, Fusarium,Thielavia,
             Acremonium, Chrysosporium and Trichoderma, especially those produced by a
             strain selected from the species Aspergillus (see, e.g., EP Pub. No. 0 458 162),
             Humicola insolens (reclassified as Scytalidium thermophilum, see, e.g., U.S. Pat.
             No. 4,435,307), Coprinus cinereus, Fusariumoxysporum, Myceliophthora
             thermophila, Meripilusgiganteus, Thielavia terrestris,Acremonium sp.
             (including, but not limited to, A. persicinum,A. acremonium,A. brachypenium,
             A. dichromosporum,A. obclavatum, A. pinkertoniae,A. roseogriseum, A.
             incoloratum, and A. furatum). Preferred strains include Humicola insolens DSM
             1800, Fusariumoxysporum DSM 2672, Myceliophthora thermophila CBS
             117.65, Cephalosporiumsp. RYM-202, Acremonium sp. CBS 478.94,
             Acremonium sp. CBS 265.95, Acremonium persicinum CBS 169.65, Acremonium
             acremonium AHU 9519, Cephalosporiumsp. CBS 535.71, Acremonium
             brachypenium CBS 866.73, Acremonium dichromosporum CBS 683.73,
             Acremonium obclavatum CBS 311.74, Acremonium pinkertoniae CBS 157.70,
             Acremonium roseogriseumCBS 134.56, Acremonium incoloratum CBS 146.62,
             and Acremoniumfuratum CBS 299.70H. Cellulolytic enzymes may also be
             obtained from Chrysosporium, preferably a strain of Chrysosporium
             lucknowense. Additional strains that can be used include, but are not limited to,
             Trichoderma (particularly T. viride, T. reesei, and T. koningii), alkalophilic
             Bacillus (see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 3,844,890 and EP Pub. No. 0 458 162),
             and Streptomyces (see, e.g., EP Pub. No. 0 458 162).
             [00280]     In addition to or in combination to enzymes, acids, bases and other
             chemicals (e.g., oxidants) can be utilized to saccharify lignocellulosic and
             cellulosic materials. These can be used in any combination or sequence (e.g.,
             before, after and/or during addition of an enzyme). For example, strong mineral
             acids can be utilized (e.g. HCl, H 2 SO 4 , H 3 PO 4 ) and strong bases (e.g., NaOH,
             KOH).
             SUGARS
             [00281]     In the processes described herein, for example, after saccharification,
             sugars (e.g., glucose and xylose) can be isolated. For example, sugars can be
                                                    77

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             isolated by precipitation, crystallization, chromatography (e.g., simulated moving
             bed chromatography, high pressure chromatography), centrifugation, extraction,
             any other isolation method known in the art, and combinations thereof.
             HYDROGENATION AND OTHER CHEMICAL TRANSFORMATIONS
             [00282]      The processes described herein can include hydrogenation. For
             example, glucose and xylose can be hydrogenated to sorbitol and xylitol
             respectively. Esters, for example, produced as described herein, can also be
             hydrogenated. Hydrogenation can be accomplished by use of a catalyst (e.g.,
             Pt/gamma-A120 3, Ru/C, Raney Nickel, copper chromite or other catalysts know
             in the art) in combination with H 2 under high pressure (e.g., 10 to 12000 psi).
             Other types of chemical transformation of the products from the processes
             described herein can be used, for example, production of organic sugar derived
             products such (e.g., furfural and furfural-derived products). Chemical
             transformations of sugar derived products are described in International App. No.
             PCT/US201/049562, filed July 3, 2013, the disclosure of which is incorporated
             herein by reference in its entirety.
             FERMENTATION
             [00283]      Yeast and Zymomonas bacteria, for example, can be used for
             fermentation or conversion of sugar(s) to alcohol(s). Other microorganisms are
             discussed below. The optimum pH for fermentations is about pH 4 to 7. For
             example, the optimum pH for yeast is from about pH 4 to 5, while the optimum
             pH for Zymomonas is from about pH 5 to 6. Typical fermentation times are
             about 24 to 168 hours (e.g., 24 to 96 hrs.) with temperatures in the range of 20'C
             to 40'C (e.g., 26'C to 40'C), however thermophilic microorganisms prefer higher
             temperatures.
             [00284]      In some embodiments, e.g., when anaerobic organisms are used, at
             least a portion of the fermentation is conducted in the absence of oxygen, e.g.,
             under a blanket of an inert gas such as N 2 , Ar, He, CO 2 or mixtures thereof.
             Additionally, the mixture may have a constant purge of an inert gas flowing
             through the tank during part of or all of the fermentation. In some cases,
             anaerobic condition, can be achieved or maintained by carbon dioxide production
             during the fermentation and no additional inert gas is needed.
                                                    78

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
             [00285]       In some embodiments, all or a portion of the fermentation process can
             be interrupted before the low molecular weight sugar is completely converted to a
             product (e.g., ethanol). The intermediate fermentation products include sugar and
             carbohydrates in high concentrations. The sugars and carbohydrates can be
             isolated via any means known in the art. These intermediate fermentation
             products can be used in preparation of food for human or animal consumption.
             Additionally or alternatively, the intermediate fermentation products can be
             ground to a fine particle size in a stainless-steel laboratory mill to produce a
             flour-like substance. Jet mixing may be used during fermentation, and in some
             cases saccharification and fermentation are performed in the same tank.
             [00286]       Nutrients for the microorganisms may be added during
             saccharification and/or fermentation, for example, the food-based nutrient
             packages described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0052536, filed July 15, 2011, the
             complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
             [00287]       "Fermentation" includes the methods and products that are disclosed
             in International App. No. PCT/US2012/071093 filed December 20, 2012 and
             International App. No. PCT/US2012/071097 filed December 12, 2012, the
             contents of both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
             [00288]       Mobile fermenters can be utilized, as described in International App.
             No. PCT/US2007/074028 (which was filed July 20, 2007, was published in
             English as WO 2008/011598 and designated the United States) and has a US
             issued Patent No. 8,318,453, the contents of which are incorporated herein in its
             entirety. Similarly, the saccharification equipment can be mobile. Further,
             saccharification and/or fermentation may be performed in part or entirely during
             transit.
             FERMENTATION AGENTS
             [00289]       The microorganism(s) used in fermentation can be naturally-occurring
             microorganisms and/or engineered microorganisms. For example, the
             microorganism can be a bacterium (including, but not limited to, e.g., a
             cellulolytic bacterium), a fungus, (including, but not limited to, e.g., a yeast), a
             plant, a protist, e.g., a protozoa or a fungus-like protest (including, but not limited
             to, e.g., a slime mold), or an alga. When the organisms are compatible, mixtures
             of organisms can be utilized.
                                                     79

WO 2014/176508                                                                PCT/US2014/035467
             [00290]     Suitable fermenting microorganisms have the ability to convert
             carbohydrates, such as glucose, fructose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose,
             oligosaccharides or polysaccharides into fermentation products. Fermenting
             microorganisms include strains of the genus Saccharomyces spp. (including, but
             not limited to, S. cerevisiae (baker's yeast), S. distaticus, S. uvarum), the genus
             Kluyveromyces, (including, but not limited to, K. marxianus, K.fragilis), the
             genus Candida (including, but not limited to, C. pseudotropicalis,and C.
             brassicae), Pichiastipitis (a relative of Candida shehatae), the genus Clavispora
             (including, but not limited to, C. lusitaniae and C. opuntiae), the genus
             Pachysolen (including, but not limited to, P. tannophilus), the genus
             Bretannomyces (including, but not limited to, e.g., B. clausenii (Philippidis, G. P.,
             1996, Cellulose bioconversion technology, in Handbook on Bioethanol:
             Production and Utilization, Wyman, C.E., ed., Taylor & Francis, Washington,
             DC, 179-212)). Other suitable microorganisms include, for example, Zymomonas
             mobilis, Clostridium spp. (including, but not limited to, C. thermocellum
             (Philippidis, 1996, supra), C. saccharobutylacetonicum,C. tyrobutyricum C.
             saccharobutylicum,C. Puniceum, C. beijernckii, and C. acetobutylicum),
             Moniliella spp. (including but not limited to M. pollinis,M. tomentosa, M.
             madida, M. nigrescens,M. oedocephali, M. megachiliensis), Yarrowia lipolytica,
            Aureobasidium sp., Trichosporonoidessp., Trigonopsis variabilis,Trichosporon
             sp., Moniliellaacetoabutanssp., Typhula variabilis,Candida magnoliae,
             Ustilaginomycetes sp., Pseudozyma tsukubaensis, yeast species of genera
             Zygosaccharomyces, Debaryomyces, Hansenula and Pichia, and fungi of the
             dematioid genus Torula (e.g., T.corallina).
             [00291]     Many such microbial strains are publicly available, either
             commercially or through depositories such as the ATCC (American Type Culture
             Collection, Manassas, Virginia, USA), the NRRL (Agricultural Research Service
             Culture Collection, Peoria, Illinois, USA), or the DSMZ (Deutsche Sammlung
             von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen GmbH, Braunschweig, Germany), to
             name a few.
             [00292]     Commercially available yeasts include, for example, Red
             Star@/Lesaffre Ethanol Red (available from Red Star/Lesaffre, USA), FALI*
             (available from Fleischmann's Yeast, a division of Burns Philip Food Inc., USA),
             SUPERSTART* (available from Alltech, now Lallemand), GERT STRAND*
                                                   80

WO 2014/176508                                                                 PCT/US2014/035467
             (available from Gert Strand AB, Sweden) and FERMOL* (available from DSM
             Specialties).
             DISTILLATION
             [00293]     After fermentation, the resulting fluids can be distilled using, for
             example, a "beer column" to separate ethanol and other alcohols from the
             majority of water and residual solids. The vapor exiting the beer column can be,
             e.g., 35% by weight ethanol and can be fed to a rectification column. A mixture
             of nearly azeotropic (92.5%) ethanol and water from the rectification column can
             be purified to pure (99.5%) ethanol using vapor-phase molecular sieves. The
             beer column bottoms can be sent to the first effect of a three-effect evaporator.
             The rectification column reflux condenser can provide heat for this first effect.
             After the first effect, solids can be separated using a centrifuge and dried in a
             rotary dryer. A portion (25%) of the centrifuge effluent can be recycled to
             fermentation and the rest sent to the second and third evaporator effects. Most of
             the evaporator condensate can be returned to the process as fairly clean
             condensate with a small portion split off to waste water treatment to prevent
             build-up of low-boiling compounds.
             HYDROCARBON-CONTAINING MATERIALS
             [00294]     In other embodiments utilizing the methods and systems described
             herein, hydrocarbon-containing materials can be processed. Any process
             described herein can be used to treat any hydrocarbon-containing material herein
             described. "Hydrocarbon-containing materials," as used herein, is meant to
             include oil sands, oil shale, tar sands, coal dust, coal slurry, bitumen, various
             types of coal, and other naturally-occurring and synthetic materials that include
             both hydrocarbon components and solid matter. The solid matter can include
             rock, sand, clay, stone, silt, drilling slurry, or other solid organic and/or inorganic
             matter. The term can also include waste products such as drilling waste and by
             products, refining waste and by-products, or other waste products containing
             hydrocarbon components, such as asphalt shingling and covering, asphalt
             pavement, etc.
                                                     81

WO 2014/176508                                                                  PCT/US2014/035467
             CONVEYING SYSTEMS
             [00295]      Various conveying systems can be used to convey the feedstock
             materials, for example, to a vault and under an electron beam in a vault.
             Exemplary conveyors are belt conveyors, pneumatic conveyors, screw conveyors,
             carts, trains, trains or carts on rails, elevators, front loaders, backhoes, cranes,
             various scrapers and shovels, trucks, and throwing devices can be used. For
             example, vibratory conveyors can be used in various processes described herein,
             for example, as disclosed in International App. No. PCT/US2013/064332 filed
             Oct. 10, 2013, the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.
             OTHER EMBODIMENTS
             [00296]      Any material, processes or processed materials described herein can
             be used to make products and/or intermediates such as composites, fillers,
             binders, plastic additives, adsorbents and controlled release agents. The methods
             can include densification, for example, by applying pressure and heat to the
             materials. For example, composites can be made by combining fibrous materials
             with a resin or polymer (e.g., PLA). For example, radiation cross-linkable resin
             (e.g., a thermoplastic resin, PLA, and/or PLA derivatives) can be combined with
             a fibrous material to provide a fibrous material/cross-linkable resin combination.
             Such materials can be, for example, useful as building materials, protective
             sheets, containers and other structural materials (e.g., molded and/or extruded
             products). Absorbents can be, for example, in the form of pellets, chips, fibers
             and/or sheets. Adsorbents can be used, for example, as pet bedding, packaging
             material or in pollution control systems. Controlled release matrices can also be
             the form of, for example, pellets, chips, fibers and or sheets. The controlled
             release matrices can, for example, be used to release drugs, biocides, fragrances.
             For example, composites, absorbents and control release agents and their uses are
             described in International Application No. PCT/US2006/010648, filed March 23,
             2006, and U.S. Patent No. 8,074,910 filed November 22, 2011, the entire
             disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.
             [00297]      In some instances the biomass material is treated at a first level to
             reduce recalcitrance, e.g., utilizing accelerated electrons, to selectively release
             one or more sugars (e.g., xylose). The biomass can then be treated to a second
             level to release one or more other sugars (e.g., glucose). Optionally the biomass
                                                      82

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             can be dried between treatments. The treatments can include applying chemical
             and biochemical treatments to release the sugars. For example, a biomass
             material can be treated to a level of less than about 20 Mrad (e.g., less than about
             15 Mrad, less than about 10 Mrad, less than about 5 Mrad, less than about 2
             Mrad) and then treated with a solution of sulfuric acid, containing less than 10%
             sulfuric acid (e.g., less than about 9%, less than about 8%, less than about 7%,
             less than about 6%, less than about 5%, less than about 4%, less than about 3%,
             less than about 2%, less than about 1%, less than about 0.75%, less than about
             0.50 %, less than about 0.25%) to release xylose. Xylose, for example, that is
             released into solution, can be separated from solids and optionally the solids
             washed with a solvent/solution (e.g., with water and/or acidified water).
             Optionally, the Solids can be dried, for example, in air and/or under vacuum
             optionally with heating (e.g., below about 150    0 C, below about 120    C) to a
             water content below about 25 wt. % (below about 20 wt. %,below about 15 wt.
             %,below about 10 wt. %,below about 5 wt. %). The solids can then be treated
             with a level of less than about 30 Mrad (e.g., less than about 25 Mrad, less than
             about 20 Mrad, less than about 15 Mrad, less than about 10 Mrad, less than about
             5 Mrad, less than about 1 Mrad or even not at all) and then treated with an
             enzyme (e.g., a cellulase) to release glucose. The glucose (e.g., glucose in
             solution) can be separated from the remaining solids. The solids can then be
             further processed, for example, utilized to make energy or other products (e.g.,
             lignin derived products).
             EXAMPLES
             L- Lactic acid Production from Saccharified Corncob in Lactobacillus
             species.
             Material and Methods
             Lactic acid producing strains tested:
             The Lactic acid producing stains that were tested are listed in Table 2
             Table 2: Lactic acid producing strains tested
                    NRRL B-441        Lactobacillus case
                    NRRL B-445        Lactobacillus rhamnosus
                                      Lactobacillus delbrueckii subspecies
                    NRRL B-763        delbrueckii
                                                    83

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
                     ATCC 8014      Lactobacillus plantarum
                                    Lactobacillus delbrueckii subspecies
                     ATCC 9649      delbrueckii
                     B-4525         Lactobacillus delbrueckii subspecies lactis
                                    Lactobacillus coryniformis subspecies
                     B-4390         torquens
                     B-227          Lactobacillus pentosus
                     B-4527         Lactobacillus brevis
                     ATCC 25745     Pediococcus pentosaceus
                     NRRL 395       Rhizopus oryzae
                     CBS 112.07     Rhizopus oryzae
                     CBS 127.08     Phizopus oryzae
                     CBS 396.95     Rhizopus sryzae
             Seed Culture
             [00298]      Cells from a frozen (-80 0C) cell bank were cultivated in propagation
             medium (BD DIFCOTM Lactobacilli MRS Broth) at 37 0C, with 150 rpm stirring
             for 20 hours. This seed culture was transferred to a 1.2L (or optionally a 20L)
             bioreactors charged with media as describe below.
             Main Culture Media
             [00299]      All media included saccharified corncob that had been hammer milled
             and irradiated with about 35 Mrad of electron beam irradiation. For example,
             saccharified corn cob can be prepared as described in International App. No.
             PCT/US2014/021796 filed March 7, 2014, the entire disclosure of which is
             herein incorporated by reference.
             [00300]      Experiments with various additional media components were also
             conducted using lactobacilluscasei NRRL B-44 as the lactic acid producing
             organism. A 1.2L bioreactor with 0.7 L of culture volume was used. A 1 % of 20
             hour-cultured seed of lactobacilluscasei NRRL B-441 was inoculated. No
             aeration was utilized. The temperature was maintained at about 37 0C. Antifoam
             204 was also added (0.1%, 1ml/L) at the beginning of the fermentation.
             [00301]      The experiments are summarized in Table 3.The media components;
             initial glucose concentration, nitrogen sources, yeast extract concentration,
                                                   84

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
              calcium carbonate, metals and inoculum size, were tested for lactic acid yield or
              lactic acid production rate. In addition to media components, the physical
              conditions; temperature, agitation, autoclave time and heating (no-autoclave)
              were tested for lactic acid yield. For these media components and physical
              reaction conditions the ranges tested, ranges for producing some lactic acid and
              the ranges are indicated in Table 3.
              Table 3 L-Lactic acid production in bioreactor with B-441
           Media             Test           Range-Tested     Rangea         Range -Optionalb
           Component         Parameter
           Initial glucose   Lactic acid    33-85 g/L        33-75 g/L      33 - 52 g/L
           concentration     concentration
           Nitrogen          Lactic acid    Yeast extract,   Yeast extract, Yeast extract
           Sources Tested    concentration  Malt extract,    Tryptone,
                                            Corn steep,      Peptone
                                            Tryptone,
                                            Peptone
           Yeast Extract C   Lactic acid    0-10 g/L         2.5-10 g/L     2.5 g/L
                             concentration
           Calcium           Lactic acid    0-7 wt. %/vol.%  3 - 7 % wt.    5 wt. %/vol.%
           carbonate         concentration                   %/vol.%
           Metal Solutions   Lactic acid    With or without  With or        Without metals
                             concentration  metals           without
                                                             metals
           Minor             Lactic acid    With or without  With or        Without minor
           components:       concentration       r           without minor  components
           sodium acetate                   mnrwtotircomponents
            Polysorbate TM                                   components
           80',
           dipotassium
           hydrogen
           phosphate,
           triammonium
           citrate
           Inoculum Size     Lactic acid    0.1-5 vol. %     1 - 5 vol. %   1 vol. %
                             production
                             rate
           Physical          Test           Range-Tested     Range-         Range
           Condition         Parameter
           Temperature       Lactic acid    27-47  0 C       27- 42 0 C     33-37  0 C
                             concentration
           Agitation (in     Lactic acid    50-400 rpm       50-400 rpm     100-300 rpm
           1.2L reactor)     concentration
                                                      85

WO 2014/176508                                                                     PCT/US2014/035467
           Autoclave Time      Lactic acid       25min-145min       25min-          25 min
                               concentration                         145min
           Heating (no         Lactic acid       50-70' C           50-70' C        50 - 70 0 C
           autoclave)          concentration
             'Ranges produced a yield of at least 80% based on added sugars.
             bOptional ranges produced close to 100% lactic acid (e.g., between about 90 and 100%, between
             about 95 and 100%)
             'Fluka brand yeast extract was used.
             d Polysorbate
                           TM
                              80 is a nonionic surfactant from ICI Americas, Inc.
             Results with Optional Media and Optional Physical Conditions
              [00302]       A 1.2 L bioreactor charged with 0.7 L of media (Saccharified corncob,
             2.5 g/L yeast extract). The media and bioreactor vessel were autoclaved for 25
             min and no additional heating was used for sterilization. In addition a 20L
             bioreactor was charged with 10 L of media. For sterilization the media was
             stirred at 200 rpm while heating at 80 0 C for 10 min. When the media was cool
             (about 37      C) the bioreactors were inoculated with 1 vol. % of 20-hour-culture.
             The fermentations were conducted under the physical conditions (37 'C, 200 rpm
             stirring). No aeration was utilized. The pH remained between 5 and 6 using 5%
             (wt. %/vol. %) throughout the fermentation. The temperature was maintained at
             about 37 'C. Antifoam 204 was also added (0. 1vol. %) at the beginning of the
             fermentation. Several Lactobacilluscasei strains were tested (NRRL B-441,
             NRRL B-445, NRRL B-763 and ATCC 8014).
              [00303]       A plot of the sugar consumption and lactic acid production for the
             NRRL B-441 strain is shown in the 1.2 L bioreactor is shown in FIG. 7. After
             two days all of the glucose was consumed, while xylose was not consumed.
             Fructose and cellobiose were also consumed. Lactic acid was produced at a
             concentration of about 42 g/L. The consumed glucose, fructose and cellobiose
             (total 42 g/L) were about to same as produced lactic acid.
              [00304]       Similar data from results of the fermentation using the NRRL B-441
             strain in the 20L bioreactor are shown in FIG. 8. Glucose was completely
             consumed while xylose was not significantly consumed. Lactic acid was
             produced at a final concentration of about 47-48 g/L.
              [00305]       Enantiomer analysis is summarized for all strains tested in Table 4.
             Lactobacilluscasei (NRRL-B-441) and L. rhamnosus (B-445) produced more
             than 96 % L-lactic acid. L. delbrueckii sub. Delbrueckii (B-763) showed over
                                                           86

WO 2014/176508                                                            PCT/US2014/035467
             99% of the D-Lactic acid. The L. plantarum (ATCC 8014) showed an
             approximate equal mixture of each enantiomer.
             Table 4: Ratio of L and D-Lactic Acid for Various Fermenting Organisms
                 Strain                          L-Lactic Acid      D-Lactic Acid
                  L. casei (B-441)               96.1                3.9
                 L. rhamnosus (B-445)            98.3                1.7
                 L. delbrueckii sub.             0.6                 99.4
                 Delbrueckii (B-763)
                 L. plantarum (ATCC 8014)        52.8               47.2
             Polymerization of lactic acid
             [00306]      A 250ml three-necked flask was equipped with a mechanical stirrer
             and a condenser that was connected with a vacuum system through a cold trap.
             100 grams of 90 wt. % aqueous L-lactic acid was dehydrated at 150 0 C, first at
             atmospheric pressure for 2 hours, then at a reduced pressure of 90mmHg for 2
             hours, and finally under a pressure of 20mmHg for another 4 hours. A clear
             viscous liquid of oligo(L-lactic acid) was formed quantitatively.
             [00307]      400mg (0.4 wt. %) of both tin(II) chloride dihydrate and para-toluene
             sulfonic acid was acid was added to the mixture and further heated tol 80 0 C for 5
             hours at 8mmHg. With the reaction proceeding, the system became more viscous
             gradually. The reaction mixture was cooled down and then further heated at
             150 0 C in a vacuum oven another 19 hours.
             [00308]      Samples were taken from the reaction mixture after 2 hours (A), 5
             hours (B) and 24 hours (C) and the molecular weight was calculated using GPC
             using polystyrene standards in THF. FIG. 9 is a plot of GPC data for samples A,
             B and C.
                Sample               Reaction time       Molecular          Retention
                                     (hours)             Weight             Time
                A                    2                   8000                18.3
                B                    5                   12000               19.3
                C                    24                  35000              20.3
                                                   87

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             [00309]      Other than in the examples herein, or unless otherwise expressly
             specified, all of the numerical ranges, amounts, values and percentages, such as
             those for amounts of materials, elemental contents, times and temperatures of
             reaction, ratios of amounts, and others, in the following portion of the
             specification and attached claims may be read as if prefaced by the word "about"
             even though the term "about" may not expressly appear with the value, amount,
             or range. Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the numerical parameters
             set forth in the following specification and attached claims are approximations
             that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the
             present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application
             of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical
             parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported
             significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.
             [00310]      Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting
             forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations, the numerical values
             set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any
             numerical value, however, inherently contains error necessarily resulting from the
             standard deviation found in its underlying respective testing measurements.
             Furthermore, when numerical ranges are set forth herein, these ranges are
             inclusive of the recited range end points (i.e., end points may be used). When
             percentages by weight are used herein, the numerical values reported are relative
             to the total weight.
             [00311]      Also, it should be understood that any numerical range recited herein
             is intended to include all sub-ranges subsumed therein. For example, a range of
             "1 to 10" is intended to include all sub-ranges between (and including) the recited
             minimum value of 1 and the recited maximum value of 10, that is, having a
             minimum value equal to or greater than 1 and a maximum value of equal to or
             less than 10. The terms "one," "a," or "an" as used herein are intended to include
             ''at least one" or ''one or more," unless otherwise indicated.
             [00312]      Any patent, publication, or other disclosure material, in whole or in
             part, that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein
             only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing
             definitions, statements, or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure.
             As such, and to the extent necessary, the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein
                                                    88

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any
             material, or portion thereof, that is said to be incorporated by reference herein,
             but which conflicts with existing definitions, statements, or other disclosure
             material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict
             arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.
             [00313]      While this invention has been particularly shown and described with
             references to most preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those
             skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein
             without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended
             claims.
                                                    89

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
     CLAIMS
              1. A method for making a product comprising:
              treating a reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material with one or
     more enzymes and/or organisms to produce an alpha, beta, gamma and/or delta hydroxy
     carboxylic acid, and
              converting the alpha, beta, gamma and/or delta hydroxy-carboxylic acid to the
     product.
              2. The method of claim 1, wherein a feedstock is pretreated with at least one of
     irradiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis and steam explosion to produce the reduced
     recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material.
              3. The method of claim 2, wherein irradiation is performed with an electron
     beam.
              4. The method of claim 1, wherein converting is selected from the group
     consisting of polymerization, isomerization, esterification, oxidation, reduction,
     disproportionation and combinations thereof.
              5. The method of any one of the above claims wherein converting the hydroxy
     carboxylic acid to the product comprises converting lactic acid to esters.
              6. The method of any one of the above claim wherein treating is performed
     initially with one of more enzymes to release one or more sugars (such as glucose,
     xylose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, mannose, galactose, arabinose, fructose, dimers of
     these such as cellobiose, heterodimers of these such as sucrose, oligomers of these, and
     mixtures of these) from the lignocellulosic or cellulosic material followed by adding one
     or more organisms to produce the hydroxy-carboxylic acid.
              7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein producing the hydroxy
     carboxylic acid comprises treating is performed initially to release one or more sugars
     from the lignocellulosic or cellulosic material followed by fermenting one of the sugars
     with the one or more of the organisms.
                                                   90

WO 2014/176508                                                                  PCT/US2014/035467
              8. The method of claim 6 or 7, further comprising purifying the one or more
     sugars (e.g., utilizing one or more of electrodialysis, distillation, centrifugation, filtration,
     cation exchange chromatography).
              9. The method of any one of the above claims wherein the hydroxy-carboxylic
     acid is selected from the group consisting of glycolic acid, lactic acid, malic acid, citric
     acid and tartaric acid.
               10. The method of claim 9, wherein the hydroxy-carboxylic acid is lactic acid.
               11. The method of claim 10, wherein converting comprises polymerizing the
     lactic acid to a polymer (e.g., polymerizing in a melt such as without an added solvent).
               12. The method of claim 11, wherein a polymerizing method is selected from the
     group consisting of direct condensation of the lactic acid, azeotropic dehydrative
     condensation of the lactic acid, and dimerizing the lactic acid to lactide followed by ring
     opening polymerization of the lactide.
               13. The method of claim 12, wherein the polymerization method is direct
     condensation and includes utilizing coupling agents and/or chain extenders to increase
     the molecular weight of the polymer.
               14. The method of claim 13, wherein the coupling agents and/or chain extenders
     are selected from the group consisting of triphosgene, carbonyl diimidazole,
     dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, diisocyanate, acid chlorides, acid anhydrides, epoxides,
     thiirane, oxazoline, orthoester, and mixtures of these.
               15. The method of claim 12 wherein the polymerization method is azeotropic
     condensation.
               16. The method of any one of claims 11-14, wherein catalysts and/or promoters
     are utilized which are selected from the group consisting of Lewis acids, Bronsted acids,
     H3 PO 4 , H2 SO 4 , methane sulfonic acid, p-toluene sulfonic acid, polymerically supported
     sulfonic acids, metals, Mg, Al, Ti, Zn, Sn, metal oxides, TiO 2 , ZnO, GeO 2 , ZrO 2 , SnO,
     SnO 2 , Sb 2 0 3 , metal halides, ZnCl 2 , SnCl 2, SnC14 , Mn(AcO) 2, Fe2(LA) 3 , Co(AcO) 2,
     Ni(AcO) 2 , Cu(OA) 2, Zn(LA) 2, Y(OA) 3, Al(i-PrO) 3, Ti(BuO) 4 , TiO(acac) 2, (Bu) 2 SnO,
     Sn(octoate) 2, solvates of any of these and mixtures of these.
                                                         91

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
              17. The method of claims 15 or 16, further comprising conducting at least a
     portion of the polymerization at a temperature between about 100 and about 200 'C, such
     as between about 110 and about 170 'C or between about 120 and about 160           0 C.
              18. The method of any one of claims 15 through 17, wherein at least a portion of
     the polymerization is performed under vacuum (e.g., between about 0.1 mm Hg to 300
     mm Hg).
              19. The method of claim 12, wherein the polymerization method includes
     dimerizing the lactic acid to lactide followed by ring opening polymerization of the
     lactide.
              20. The method of claim 19, wherein the dimerization includes heating the lactic
     acid to between 100 and 200 'C under a vacuum of about 0.1 to about 100 mmHg.
              21. The method of claims 19 or 20, wherein the dimerization includes a catalyst
     selected from the group consisting of Sn octoate, Li carbonate, Zn diacetate dehydrate,
     Ti tetraisopropoxide, potassium carbonate, tin powder and mixtures of these.
              22. The method of any one of claims 19 through 21, wherein a ring opening
     polymerization catalyst is utilized which is selected from the group of Bronsted acids,
     HBr, HCl, triflic acid, Lewis acids, ZnCl 2, AlCl 3 , anions, potassium benzoate, potassium
     phenoxide, potassium t-butoxide, and zinc stearate, metals, Tin, zinc, aluminum,
     antimony, bismuth, lanthanide and other heavy metals, Tin (II) oxide and tin (II) octoate
     (e.g., 2-ethylhexanoate), tetraphenyl tin, tin (II) and (IV) halogenides, tin (II)
     acetylacetonoate, distannoxanes (e.g., hexabutyldistannoxane, R 3SnOSnR 3 where R
     groups are alkyl or aryl groups), Al(OiPr) 3, other functionalized aluminium alkoxides
     (e.g., aluminum ethoxide, aluminium methoxide), ethyl zinc, lead (II) oxide, antimony
     octoate, bismuth octoate, rare earth catalysts, yttrium tris(methyllactate), yttrium tris(2
     N-N-dimethylamino ethoxide), samarium tris(2-N-N-dimethylamino ethoxide), yttrium
     tris(trimethylsilylmethyl), lanthanum tris(2,2,6,6-tetramethylheptanedionate), lanthanum
     tris(acetylacetonate), yttrium octoate, yttrium tris(acetylacetonate), yttrium tris(2,2,6,6
     tetramethylheptanedionate), combinations of these (e.g., ethyl zinc/aluminum
     isopropoxide) and mixtures of these
              23. The method of any one of claims 11 through 22, wherein converting further
     includes blending the polymer with a second polymer.
                                                   92

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
              24. The method of claim 23, wherein the second polymer is selected from the
     group consisting of polyglycols, polyvinyl acetate, polyolefins, styrenic resins,
     polyacetals, poly(meth)acrylates, polycarbonate, polybutylene succinate, elastomers,
     polyurethanes, natural rubber, polybutadiene, neoprene, silicone, and combinations of
     these.
              25. The method of any one of claims 11 through 24, wherein a co-monomer is co
     polymerized with the lactic acid.
              26. The method of claim 25, wherein the co-monomer is selected from the group
     consisting of elastomeric units, lactones, glycolic acid, carbonates, morpholinediones,
     epoxides, 1,4- benzodioxepin-2,5-(3H)-dione glycosalicylide, 1,4- benzodioxepin-2,5
     (3H, 3-methyl)-dione lactosalicylide, dibenzo-1,5 dioxacin-6-12-dione disalicylide,
     morpholine-2,5-dione, 1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione glycolide, oxepane-2-one c-caprolactone,
     1,3-dioxane-2-one trimethylene carconate, 2,2-dimethyltrimethylene carbonate, 1,5
     dioxepane-2-one, 1,4-dioxane-2-one p-dioxanone, gamma-butyrolactone, beta
     butyrolactone, beta-me-delta-valerolactone, 1,4-dioxane-2,3-dione ethylene oxalate, 3
     [benzyloxycarbonyl methyl]-1,4-dioxane-2,5-dione, ethylene oxide, propylene oxide,
     5,5'(oxepane-2-one), 2,4,7,9-tetraoxa-spiro[5,5]undecane-3,8-dione Spiro-bid
     dimethylene caronate and mixtures of these.
              27. The method of any one of claims 11 through 26, comprising combining the
     polymer with fillers.
              28. The method of claim 27, wherein the filler is selected from the group
     consisting of silicates, layered silicates, polymer and organically modified layered
     silicate, synthetic mica, carbon, carbon fibers, glass fibers, boric acid, talc,
     montmorillonite, clay, starch, corn starch, wheat starch, cellulose fibers, paper, rayon,
     non-woven fibers, wood flours, whiskers of potassium titanate, whiskers of aluminum
     borate, 4,4'-thiodiphenol, glycerol and mixtures of these.
              29. The method of claim 27 or 28, wherein combining further includes extrusion
     and/or compression molding.
              30. The method of any one of claims 11 through 29, further comprising branching
     or cross linking the polymer.
                                                    93

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
              31. The method of claim 30, wherein a cross linking agent is utilized to cross link
     the polymer and the cross-linking agent selected from the group consisting of 5,5'
     bis(oxepane-2-one)(bis- r -caprolactone)), spiro-bis-dimethylene carbonate, peroxides,
     dicumyl peroxide, benzoyl peroxide, unsaturated alcohols, hydroxyethyl methacrylate, 2
     butene-1,4-diol, unsaturated anhydrides, maleic anhydride, saturated epoxides, glycidyl
     methacrylate, irradiation and combinations of these.
              32. The method of any one of claims 11 through 31, further comprising
     processing the polymer by a method selected from injection molding, blow molding and
     thermoforming.
              33. The method of any one of claims 11 through 32, further comprising
     combining the polymer with a dye or pigment.
              34. The method of any one of claims 11 through 33, wherein converting further
     includes blending the polymer with a plasticizer.
              35. The method of claim 34, wherein plasticizer is selected from the group
     consisting of triacetin, tributyl citrate, polyethylene glycol, acetic acid ester of a
     monoglycerides, diethyl bishydroxymethyl malonate and mixtures of these.
              36. The method of any one of claims 11 through 35, further comprising grafting a
     molecule to the polymer.
              37. The method of claim 36, wherein the molecule is selected from a monomer or
     a polymer.
              38. The method of claim 36 or 37, further including treating the polymer with a
     peroxide, heating above about 120 C, irradiation and combinations thereof.
              39. The method of any one of claims 11 through 38, further comprising shaping,
     molding, carving, extruding and/or assembling the polymer into the product.
              40. The method of any one of claims 11 through 39, wherein the product is
     selected from the group consisting of personal care items, tissues, towels, diapers, green
     packaging, compostable pots, consumer electronics, laptop casings, mobile phone
     casings, appliances, food packaging, disposable packaging, food containers, drink
     bottles, garbage bags, waste compostable bags, mulch films, controlled release matrices,
     controlled release containers, containers for fertilizers, containers for pesticides,
                                                     94

WO 2014/176508                                                               PCT/US2014/035467
     containers for herbicides, containers for nutrients, containers for pharmaceuticals,
     containers for flavoring agents, containers for foods, shopping bags, general purpose
     film, high heat film, heat seal layer, surface coating, disposable tableware, plates, cups,
     forks, knives, spoons, sporks, bowls, automotive parts, panels, fabrics, under hood
     covers, carpet fibers, clothing fibers, fibers for garments, fibers for sportswear, fibers for
     footwear, surgical sutures, implants, scaffolding and drug delivery systems.
             41. A product comprising:
             one or more converted alpha, beta, gamma and delta hydroxy-carboxylic acids,
     wherein
             the alpha, beta, gamma and delta hydroxy-carboxylic acid(s) is produced by the
     fermentation of sugars derived from the acidic or enzymatic saccharification of an
     irradiated lignocellulosic or cellulosic material.
             42. The product of claim 41, wherein the alpha, beta, gamma and delta hydroxy
     carboxylic acid is selected from the group consisting of glycolic acid, lactic acid, malic
     acid, citric acid and tartaric acid.
             43. The product of claim 41 or 42, wherein the product is a polymer including
     one or more of the converted hydroxy-carboxylic acids in the polymer backbone.
             44. The product of any one of claim 43, further comprising a non-hydroxy
     carboxyl acid in the polymer backbone.
             45. The product of any one of claims 41 through 44, wherein the polymer is
     cross-linked.
             46. The product of any one of claims 41 through 45, wherein the polymer is a
     graft co-polymer.
             47. A system for polymerization comprising;
             a reaction vessel, a screw extruder and a condenser;
             a recirculating fluid flow path from an outlet of the reaction vessel to an inlet of
     the screw extruder and from an outlet of the screw extruder to an inlet to the reaction
     vessel, and
                                                    95

WO 2014/176508                                                              PCT/US2014/035467
             a fluid flow path from a second outlet of the reaction vessel to an inlet of the
     condenser.
             48. The system of claim 47, further comprising a vacuum pump in fluid
     connection with the second fluid flow path for producing a vacuum in the second fluid
     flow path.
             49. The system of claim 47 or 48, further comprising a control valve that in a first
     position provides a non-disrupted flow in the recirculating fluid flow path and in a
     second position provides a second fluid flow path.
             50. The system of claim 49, wherein when the second fluid flow path is from the
     outlet of the reaction vessel to an inlet of a pelletizer.
             51. The system of claim 50, wherein the second fluid flow path is from the outlet
     of the reaction vessel to the inlet of the extruder and from the outlet of the extruder to the
     inlet of a pelletizer.
             52. The method of any one of the above claims wherein the hydroxy-carboxylic
     acid is selected from the group consisting of glycolic acid, lactic acid (e.g., D, L or
     mixtures of D and L), malic acid, citric acid, tartaric acid, carmine, cyclobutyrol, 3
     dehydroquinic acid, diethyl tartrate, 2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylpentanoic acid, 3,4
     dihydroxymandelic acid, glyceric acid, homocitric acid, homoisocitric acid, beta
     hydroxy beta-methylbutyric acid, 4-hydroxy-4-methylpentanoic acid, hydroxybutyric
     acid, 2-hydroxybutyric acid, beta-hydroxybutyric acid, gamma-hydroxybutyric acid,
     alpha-hydroxyglutaric acid, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid, 3
     hydroxypentanoic acid, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, hydroxypyruvic acid, gluconic acid,
     glucuronic acid, alpha, beta, gamma or delta-hydroxyvaleric acid; isocitric acid,
     isopropylmalic acid, kynurenic acid, mandelic acid, mevalonic acid, monatin, myriocin,
     pamoic acid, pantoic acid, prephenic acid, shikimic acid, tartronic acid, threonic acid,
     tropic acid, vanillylmandelic acid, xanthurenic acid and mixtures of these.
             53. A method comprising inoculating a raw sugar mixture produced by
     saccharifying a reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic material to produce a hydroxy
     carboxylic acid.
                                                    96

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             54. The method of claim 53, where the hydroxy-carboxylic acid is selected from
     the group glycolic acid, D-lactic acid, L-lactic acid, D-malic acid, L-malic, citric acid
     and D-tartaric acid, L-tartaric acid, and meso-tartaric acid.
             55. The method of claim 53, where the reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic
     material was processed by irradiating the lignocellulosic material with an electron beam.
             56.   The method of claim 53, where the electron beam has a total beam power of
     100 to 1500 kW.
             57. The method of claim 55 or 56, after irradiation, before saccharification the
     reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic material is heat treated at a temperature of 95 to 160
     oC.
             58. A method comprising inoculating a sugar mixture, such as a raw sugar
     mixture produced by saccharifying a reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic material to
     produce a hydroxy-carboxylic acid, wherein the mixture is inoculated with an organism
     selected from the group consisting of Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus rhamnosus,
     Lactobacillus delbrueckii subspecies delbrueckii, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus
     coryniformis subspecies torquens, Lactobacillus pentosus, Lactobacillus brevis,
     Pediococcus pentosaceus, Rhizopus oryzae, Enterococcus faecalis, Lactobacillus
     helveticus, Lactobacillus bulgaricus, Lactobacillus casei, lactobacillus amylophilus and
     mixtures thereof.
             59. The method of claim 58, where the organism is selected from the group
     consisting of Lactobacillus rhamnosus,Lactobacillus coryniformis subspecies torquens,
     Lactobacilluspentosus, Lactobacillus brevis, and mixtures thereof.
             60. The method of claim 59, where the hydroxy-carboxylic acid is selected from
     the group glycolic acid, D-lactic acid, L-lactic acid, D-malic acid, L-malic, citric acid
     and D-tartaric acid, L-tartaric acid, and meso-tartaric acid.
             63. A method comprising, irradiating biomass with an electron beam,
     saccharifying the irradiated biomass with enzymes, inoculating the saccharified biomass
     with an organism selected from the group consisting of Lactobacillusrhamnosus,
     Lactobacillus coryniformis subspecies torquens, Lactobacilluspentosus, Lactobacillus
     brevis and mixtures thereof.
                                                  97

WO 2014/176508                                                             PCT/US2014/035467
             64. The method of claim 63, where prior to irradiation the biomass size is
     reduced by cutting, grinding, shearing, pulverizing, and/or chopping.
             65.   The method of claim 63 or 64, after irradiation, before saccharification the
     biomass is heat treated at a temperature of 95 to 160 'C.
             66. The method of claim 65, wherein the biomass is heat treated at a temperature
     of 100 to 150 'C.
             67. The method of claim 65, wherein the biomass is heat treated at a temperature
     of 110 to 140 'C.
             68. The method of claim 65, where the heat treated biomass step comprises an
     aqueous mixture with the biomass 10 to 90 wt. %of the entire mixture.
             69. The method of claim 1 where converting comprises chemically converting.
             70. The method of claim 69, wherein chemically converting is selected from the
     group consisting of polymerization, isomerization, esterification, oxidation, reduction,
     disproportionation and combinations thereof.
             71. The method of claim 5 wherein converting comprises chemically converting
     the hydroxy-carboxylic acid to the product which further comprises converting lactic
     acid to esters by treating with an alcohol and an acid catalyst.
                                                  98

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
