   20120.1 10a
                                ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
                The present disclosure provides systems and methods for assembling a device
       while maintaining the aesthetic appearance and structural integrity of a visible surface
       of the device. In one or more implementations of the invention, a system includes a
 5     first assembly piece with an assembly region that comprises an opening defined by first
       and second connecting elements. The system further includes a second assembly piece
       and a fastening assembly, where a portion of the second assembly piece is shaped to fit
       within the assembly region opening and the fastening assembly spans the first and
       second connecting elements to secure the first assembly piece to the second assembly
10     piece, and tightening of the fastening assembly causes the second connecting element
       to deform, pressing a surface of the second assembly piece against an adjacent surface
       of the first connecting element and retaining a substantially even visible surface of the
       device.
15
                                               - 17 -

   20120.1 10a
                           LEG ASSEMBLY METHODS AND SYSTEMS
                                            BACKGROUND
           This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
 5 62/439,215, filed December 27, 2016, entitled LEG ASSEMBLY METHODS AND
   SYSTEMS, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Technical Field
           This disclosure generally relates to systems and methods of attaching and/or securing
   components during assembly of a device. More specifically, the present disclosure relates to
10 systems and methods of attaching and/or securing components during assembly of a device
   while maintaining the aesthetics and structural integrity thereof.
   Related Technology
            Advances in manufacturing and distribution have made it possible to create, package,
   and distribute high volumes of ready to assemble consumer goods. In some instances, the
15 distributor or retailer assembles the consumer goods before the point of sale, but it is also
   common for ready to assemble consumer goods to be packaged with assembly instructions,
   making it possible for the consumer herself to assemble the packaged device at home or at
   another preferred location. Regardless of who assembles the device, it is often important that
   the finally assembled product functions as intended and that the assembly process does not
20 significantly affect the overall structural integrity and aesthetic appearance of the device.
            Aesthetics can play a significant role in the perceived quality and workmanship of a
   consumer device. If, for example, there is a crack, scratch, or dent on the device, some
   consumers-and even some distributors and retailers-may assume the product is constructed
   of a low quality material or is otherwise defective, even though the crack, scratch, or dent may
25 not affect the device's designed functionality or its structural integrity. On the other hand, a
   device lacking aesthetic malformations may connote a high level of workmanship and product
   quality, which may, in turn, increase consumer confidence in and satisfaction with the product.
            Unfortunately, some goods may include an aesthetically unpleasant malformation as a
   result of the post-manufacturing assembly process. Such malformations may not actually affect
30 the quality or structural integrity of the device, but the device may nonetheless suffer from a
   consumer perception that it is in some way an aberrant device or that the device's structural
   integrity is somehow flawed.
           Accordingly, there are a number of disadvantages with system and methods of
   assembling devices that can be addressed.
                                                  - 1-

   20120.1 10a
                                          BRIEF SUMMARY
            Implementations of the present disclosure solve one or more of the foregoing or other
   problems in the art with systems and methods for assembling a device while maintaining the
   aesthetic appearance and structural integrity of a visible surface of the device. In particular, in
 5 one or more implementations a system includes a first assembly piece with an assembly region
   that comprises an opening defined by first and second connecting elements. The system further
   includes a second assembly piece, wherein a portion of the second assembly piece is shaped to
   fit within the opening of the assembly region. The system further includes a fastening assembly
   configured to span the first and second connecting elements and to secure the first assembly
1o piece to the second assembly piece. Upon tightening of the fastening assembly, the second
   connecting element may deform and press a surface of the second assembly piece against an
   adjacent surface of the first connecting element such that the visible surface of the first
   connecting element retains a substantially even surface.
            Systems and methods of the present disclosure can also include a system for attaching
15 a leg to a grill skirt without deforming a visible surface of the grill skirt. In particular, in one
   or more implementations a system includes a grill skirt with a substantially even visible surface
   and a leg attachment region having an arcuate surface. The system further includes a securing
   element associated with the leg attachment region such that an opening is defined between the
   securing element and the leg attachment region. The system further includes a leg, wherein at
20 least a portion of the leg is configured to be received in the opening of the securing element.
   The system can further include a fastening assembly configured to span the grill skirt and the
   securing element, wherein upon tightening the fastening assembly, the securing element may
   deform and press the leg against the leg attachment region and retaining the substantially even
   visible surface of the grill skirt.
25          Systems and methods of the present disclosure can also include a method of assembling
   a device while maintaining the aesthetic appearance and structural integrity of a visible surface
   of the device. In particular, one or more implementations provide a method that includes a step
   of aligning a first assembly piece having a substantially even surface with a second assembly
   piece, wherein at least a portion of the second assembly piece is shaped to fit within an opening
30 defined by a first connecting element and a second connecting element of an assembly region
   associated with the first assembly piece. The method further includes a step of securing the
   first assembly piece to the second assembly piece using a fastening assembly that is configured
   to span the first connecting element and the second connecting element. The method further
   includes a step of tightening the fastening assembly such that the second connecting element
                                                 -2-

   20120.1 10a
   may deform and press a surface of the second assembly piece against an adjacent surface of
   the first connecting element such that the visible surface of the first assembly piece retains a
   substantially even surface.
            Accordingly, systems and methods for assembling a device while maintaining the
 5 aesthetic appearance and structural integrity of a visible surface of the device are disclosed.
            This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that
   are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify
   key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as
   an indication of the scope of the claimed subject matter.
10          Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description
   which follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or may be learned by the
   practice of the disclosure. The features and advantages of the disclosure may be realized and
   obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the
   appended claims. These and other features of the present disclosure will become more fully
15 apparent from the following description and appended claims, or may be learned by the practice
   of the disclosure as set forth hereinafter.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            In order to describe the manner in which the above recited and other advantages and
   features of the disclosure can be obtained, a more particular description of the disclosure briefly
20 described above will be rendered by reference to specific embodiments thereof, which are
   illustrated in the appended drawings. It is appreciated that these drawings depict only typical
   embodiments of the disclosure and are not therefore to be considered to be limiting of its scope.
            Figure 1 illustrates a perspective view of an exemplary assembled system having a
   visible surface that is aesthetically and structurally maintained according to one or more
25 implementations of the present disclosure.
            Figure 2 illustrates a bottom view of an exemplary assembled system having a visible
   surface that is aesthetically and structurally maintained according to one or more
   implementations of the present disclosure.
            Figure 3A illustrates a front view of an assembly region where a visible surface of an
30 exemplary system is aesthetically and structurally maintained according to one or more
   implementations of the present disclosure.
            Figure 3B illustrates a rear view of an assembly region according to one or more
   implementations of the present disclosure.
                                                 - 3-

   20120.1 10a
           Figure 3C illustrates a cross-sectional view of an assembly region according to one or
   more implementations of the present disclosure.
           Figure 4 illustrates a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary method for assembling a
   device while maintaining the aesthetic appearance and structural integrity of a visible surface
 5 according to one or more implementations of the present disclosure.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           Before describing various embodiments of the present disclosure in detail, it is to be
   understood that this disclosure is not limited to the parameters of the particularly exemplified
   systems, methods, apparatus, products, processes, and/or kits, which may, of course, vary.
10 Thus, while certain embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in detail, with
   reference to specific configurations, parameters., components, elements, etc., the descriptions
   are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the claimed invention. In
   addition, the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing the embodiments, and is
   not necessarily intended to limit the scope of the claimed invention.
15         To facilitate understanding, like reference numerals (i.e., like numbering of components
   and/or elements) have been used, where possible, to designate like elements common to the
   figures. Specifically, in the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the figures, like structures,
   or structures with like functions, will be provided with similar reference designations, where
   possible. Specific language will be used herein to describe the exemplary embodiments.
20 Nevertheless, it will be understood that no limitation of the scope of the disclosure is thereby
   intended. Rather, it is to be understood that the language used to describe the exemplary
   embodiments is illustrative only and is not to be construed as limiting the scope of the
   disclosure (unless such language is expressly described herein as essential).
           Implementations of the present disclosure solve one or more problems in the art of
25 systems and methods for assembling a device while maintaining the aesthetic appearance and
   structural integrity of a visible surface of the device. Many devices are produced piecemeal,
   having individual parts fabricated in bulk followed by the post-manufacture assembly of these
   parts into a functional apparatus or system. Many consumer devices and systems-and even
   many industrial devices and systems-are sold or otherwise provided in a ready to assemble
30 state. As such, it is advantageous that the device and/or system maintain its structural integrity
   and proper aesthetic appearance during and after the assembly process.
           For example, many ready to assemble devices and systems require common tools for
   assembly, making it more likely that the average consumer, distributor, and/or retailer would
   have the necessary tools to properly assemble the device/system. Thus, it is often the case that
                                                 -4-

   20120.1 10a
   ready to assemble systems are supplied with any of a variety of common fasteners to couple
   one or more pieces together during assembly. Some fasteners often included in such ready to
   assemble devices comprise fasteners that couple one or more pieces together through
   compressive forces (e.g., threaded mating pairs such as, for example, a bolt and nut). While
 5 these types of fasteners are common and provide many advantages for use in ready to assemble
   furniture, it is possible that the fastener may be over tightened, causing the associated assembly
   piece(s) to deform as a result of the compressive force.
            Such deformations may, at the worst, cause a catastrophic rupture in the structural
   integrity of the device, rendering the affected portion-and possibly the entire device itself
10 structurally unsound and unusable. In some instances, deformations may cause subtle
   malformations that do not appreciably affect the structural integrity of the device. However,
   such subtle malformations may also affect the aesthetic appearance of the device, and defects
   (e.g., deformations/malformations) in the aesthetic appearance-particularly those affecting
   visible surfaces-are likely to produce a perception that the device is structurally unsound,
15 poorly or cheaply constructed, or otherwise undesirable.
           As a non-limiting example, many barbeque and/or smoking grills (hereinafter "grills")
   are mass produced in individual parts and assembled in a post-manufacturing setting. An
   exemplary assembled grill 100 is depicted in Figure 1 and comprises a grilling body 102, one
   or more legs 104, and a grill skirt 106 that covers at least a portion of the one or more legs 104.
20 During the assembly process, the legs 104 are attached to the main body 102 by one or more
   fastening assemblies 108 that penetrates the grill skirt and the one or more legs 104. However,
   upon tightening fastening assemblies 108, the fastening assemblies pull the associated leg 104
   towards the grill skirt 106 to form a secure association therewith, and in doing so, the head of
   the fastener (being proximate the grill skirt) is subjected to such intense and localized
25 compressive forces as to potentially cause a dent or otherwise deform a visible surface 110 of
   the grill skirt 106.
            Such a deformation on the visible surface of the grill skirt may not appreciably affect
   the structural integrity of the grill, but it may be aesthetically off-putting, leading to any of a
   number of negative assumptions as to the quality of the product or its functionality. On the
30 other, the deformation may be so severe that it does, indeed, affect the structural integrity of
   the grill.
           It may be possible to distribute the force placed on the visible surface by using, for
   example, a flat washer positioned between the visible surface and the head of the fastener. Flat
   washers are typically used to disperse forces over a larger surface area, thereby decreasing the
                                                  -5-

   20120.1 10a
   likelihood that a deformation will occur as a result of the compressive forces being applied, but
   depending on the force being applied, flat washers may also deform. Additionally or
   alternatively, the surface beneath the washer may deform from the forces applied thereto.
   Further, flat washers may detract from the aesthetic appearance of the device, particularly if
 5 the washer is placed on a visible surface, and to maintain the desired look of the assembled
   object, use of a flat washer may not be practicable. Accordingly, additional or alternative
   systems and methods are needed.
            Implementations of the present disclosure enable assembly of a device while
   maintaining the aesthetic appearance and structural integrity of a visible surface of the device.
10 Some implementations may be directed with specific reference to grills, but it should be
   understood that the inventive concepts provided herein are applicable to any device and/or
   system that is assembled or to any device and/or system that couples two or more pieces using
   a fastening assembly.
            In general, implementations of the present disclosure extend to systems for assembling
15 a device while maintaining the aesthetic appearance and structural integrity of a visible surface
   of the device. In one or more implementations, the system comprises first and second assembly
   pieces, and a fastening assembly. The first assembly piece may comprise at least one assembly
   region having an opening that is defined by first and second connecting elements, where at
   least a portion of the second assembly piece is shaped to fit within the opening. In one
20 implementation, the first connecting element is a portion of the first assembly piece. In one or
   more implementations the fastening assembly may be configured to span the first connecting
   element and the second connecting element, securing the first assembly piece to the second
   assembly piece, and when the fastening assembly is tightened, the second connecting element
   may deform and press a surface of the second assembly piece against an adjacent surface of
25 the first connecting element.
            The foregoing may be more particularly described with reference to the drawings. For
   example, Figure 1 depicts a perspective view of an exemplary assembled system (i.e., a grill)
   having a visible surface 106 that is aesthetically and structurally maintained, and Figure 2
   illustrates a bottom view of the system of Figure 1. In the depicted implementation, the
30 aforementioned first assembly piece comprises a grill skirt 106, the aforementioned second
   assembly piece comprises support legs 104, the aforementioned visible surface comprises the
   visible surface 110 of the grill skirt 106, and the fastening assembly comprises fasteners 108.
            Figure 3 further illustrates one or more implementations of the present disclosure. That
   is, various views of the assembly regions 105 illustrated in Figures 1 and 2 are provided in
                                                 -6-

   20120.1 10a
   Figure 3. Figure 3A illustrates a front view of assembly region 105, Figure 3B illustrates a rear
   and/or bottom perspective view of assembly region 105, and Figure 3C illustrates a cross
   sectional view of assembly region 105 according to one or more implementations of the present
   disclosure.
 5          Perhaps more clearly shown in Figure 3A, the visible surface 110 of grill skirt 106 is
   substantially even and not deformed (i.e., the visible surface 110 has maintained its aesthetic
   appearance and structural integrity), particularly where the heads 108a of fastening assemblies
   108 are associated with the grill skirt 106.
            Referring now to Figure 3B, a rear perspective view of assembly region 105 is depicted.
10 As illustrated, the threaded rod 108b of fastening assembly 108 penetrates the second assembly
   piece (e.g., the support leg) 104 and the second connecting element 112. Associated therewith
   is a flat washer 108d and threaded nut 108c.
            Perhaps best depicted by Figure 3C, assembly region 105 comprises a fastening
   assembly, which as depicted is a mating pair of threaded fasteners comprising a threaded bolt
15 108b and complementary threaded nut 108c with a flat washer 108d interposed between the
   two. In one or more implementations of the present disclosure, a flat washer 108d may be
   excluded from the fastening assembly. Additionally or alternatively, additional flat washers
   may be used in positions known to and commonly used by those skilled in the art. As illustrated
   in Figure 3C, the head 108a of fastening assembly 108 is adjacent the visible surface 110 of
20 the first assembly piece 106 (e.g., the grill skirt), and the flat washer 108d is adjacent the second
   connecting element 112 and adjacent the threaded nut 108c. In one or more implementations
   of the present disclosure, the fastening assembly may comprise any fastening assembly known
   in the art that fastens two or more objects by means of compression, including without
   limitation threaded mating pairs, rivets, and the like.
25          Upon tightening and/or compression of one or more components by the fastening
   assembly 108, the second connecting element 112 may deform or otherwise be compressed
   towards the second assembly piece 104, which in turn presses a surface 116 of the second
   assembly piece 104 against an adjacent interior surface 118 of the first connecting element 111.
   In one or more implementations, and as depicted in Figure 3C, the surface 116 of the second
30 assembly piece 104 is complementary to at least a portion of the adjacent surface 118 of the
   first connecting element 111 such that the second assembly piece 104 acts as a form to the first
   connecting element 111, assisting in the distribution of forces applied to the first connecting
   element 111 during tightening of fastening assembly 108. In one or more embodiments, such
                                                  -7-

   20120.1 10a
   distribution of force acts to maintain the substantially even surface of a visible surface 110 of
   the first assembly piece 106.
            For the purposes of this disclosure, the term "substantially even surface" is understood
   to mean a surface that has not failed (e.g., deformed, bulged, dented, etc.) as a result of
 5 compressive forces applied directly or indirectly to the surface during assembly of a device
   comprising the surface. Thus, it should be understood that the term "substantially even surface"
   is made with reference to a surface belonging to any number or type of contoured surfaces
   (e.g., arcuate, flat, etc.). For example, an arcuate surface may comprise a substantially even
   surface along the contour of the arcuate surface insofar as the surface has not failed (e.g.,
10 deformed, bulged, dented, etc.) as a result of compressive forces applied during assembly of
   the device comprising the arcuate surface. As another example, a grill skirt comprising a
   surface having two distinct planar surfaces (e.g., there is a designed groove or depression on
   the surface) maintains a substantially even surface if neither planar surface fails (e.g., deforms,
   bulges, dents, etc.) as a result of compressive forces applied during assembly of the device
15 comprising the surface having two distinct planar surfaces.
            In other words, and with particular reference to the exemplary embodiment of a grill,
   when the grill is assembled and the associated fasteners are tightened, the second connecting
   element may collapse and/or deform, pushing the leg into the interior surface of the grill skirt.
   In doing so, the leg becomes and/or acts as a form for the grill skirt, such that additional
20 tightening of the threaded bolt and nut fastener causes the grill skirt to conform to the contour
   of the leg, if at all. In this manner, the aesthetic appearance of a visible surface of the grill skirt
   is maintained in addition to its structural integrity. This is in contrast to a grill lacking a
   collapsible and/or deformable second connecting element that experiences denting and/or
   deforming of the visible surface of the grill skirt-and potentially affecting the structural
25 integrity of the grill skirt, itself-upon tightening of the fastening assembly and coincident
   localized compression of the grill skirt by the head of the fastener.
            Furthermore, the collapsible and/or deformable second connecting element allows the
   leg to nestle against the grill skirt, and as the threaded bolt or other fastener is tightened or
   otherwise secured, the leg is forced into tighter association with the grill skirt. As indicated
30 above, this maintains the visible surface of the grill skirt, but it also provides other functional
   benefits. For example, the legs are more securely fastened to the grill, providing a sturdier
   assembly. That is, in some embodiments, such an assembly is less likely to result in a "wobbly"
   leg. Instead, legs attached in such a manner are more likely to sit squarely on the ground, which
   provides the additional benefit of added stability to the assembled system.
                                                   -8-

   20120.1 10a
            Accordingly, the present invention may be applied to various assembled systems,
   including and apart from grills. For example, an assembled table may have legs that attach to
   an analogous skirt at the periphery of the table edge or may have sleeves with a deformable
   side that act in an analogous manner to secure the legs thereto, and in doing so preserve the
 5 aesthetic appearance and/or increase the structural integrity of the assembled object.
           In a similar fashion to that described above and with respect to Figures 1-4,
   embodiments of the present disclosure may be applied to assembled systems having any
   number of shape of legs and/or skirt. In one embodiment, the legs are angular (e.g., square,
   polygonal, or similar.). In other embodiments, the legs are arcuate (e.g., circular-as shown in
1o the accompanying figures-oblong, or similar). In yet other embodiments, the legs are a
   combination of angular and arcuate geometries (e.g., frustoconical, etc.). Generally, the legs
   may be part of any assembled system, including, for example, chairs, tables, desks, etc. and
   may add additional benefits to assembled objects where the weight of the surface above the
   legs is greater or significantly greater than the weight of the associated skirt (or analogous
15 component) as the legs are structurally reinforced through their forced interaction with the skirt
   (or analogous component).
           As used herein, the term "analogous" generally connotes a comparable relationship
   between two things. For example, methods carried out in comparable ways (or even
   substantially the same way) or with comparable (or substantially the same) components,
20 modules, etc., are understood to be analogous. In some instances, the term "analogous"
   connotes a counterpart of one or more components, elements, etc. For example, a grill with
   multiple legs may be attached to a single skirt. Each leg is considered analogous to each other
   leg of the same grill assembly. Similarly, legs from two similar or substantially similar grills
   are analogous as they serve the same or substantially the same function of maintaining the grill
25 in an upright position. In the same or similar manner, a grill skirt may have an analogous
   component in a table or chair such that the analogous component maintains a comparable
   relationship (functional or otherwise) with the grill skirt. For example, an analogous component
   to a grill skirt existing on a table includes an angular form that receives an angular table leg,
   and one end of the angular analogous component deforms to force the leg to conform to one or
30 more sides of the analogous component such that the leg provides additional structural integrity
   to the analogous component and/or increases the stability of the assembled table, particularly
   of the leg assembled thereto. Thus, analogous skirts and/or legs can be used in one or more
   embodiments of the present disclosure without departing from the scope of the disclosure.
                                                 -9-

   20120.1 10a
           In one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, the first connecting element is
   the same as at least a portion of the first assembly piece.
            In one or more implementations of the present disclosure, the second connecting
   element collapses and/or deforms. This may be implemented, for example, by having a second
 5 connecting element that is made of the same material as the first connecting element but
   wherein the thickness of the second connecting element is less than the thickness of the first
   connecting element. In such an implementation, the second connecting element will fail (e.g.,
   collapse and/or deform) under less compressive stress than the first connecting element. In
   doing so, the second connecting element, upon failure, will collapse towards the second
10 assembly piece, causing the second assembly piece to be compelled toward the first assembly
   piece, and in one or more embodiments where the first connecting element and the second
   assembly pieces are complementary in shape, the second assembly piece acts as a form to the
   first connecting element. In such fashion, additional force applied to the first connecting
   element will cause a dispersion of the force to effectively maintain the visible surface of the
15 first connecting element/first assembly piece in a substantially even (e.g., undented and/or
   undeformed) state.
           In one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, the foregoing may be
   accomplished in addition to or alternatively from differing the thicknesses of the same material
   by incorporating different materials into the first and/or second connecting elements. For
20 example, a second connecting element may comprise one or more materials that deform under
   less compressive stress than one or more materials comprising the first connecting element. As
   a non-limiting example, the first connecting element may comprise steel, whereas the second
   connecting element may comprise aluminum or an aluminum alloy that is defined by a higher
   degree of malleability. In other words, the metal comprising the second connecting element
25 will deform under less compressive and/or concussive force than the metal comprising the first
   connecting element to accomplish substantially the same purpose of deformation described
   above with respect to first and second connecting elements having differing thicknesses.
            In one or more implementations of the present disclosure, the second material
   comprises a thermoplastic elastomer or other flexible plastic and/or elastomer or any other
30 material known to those having skill in the art that would cause the second connecting element
   to collapse before the first connecting element and/or any portion of the first assembly piece.
           In one or more implementations of the present disclosure, the first and second
   connecting elements may comprise the same (or a different) material, wherein the second
   connecting element comprises pre-weakened sections and/or perforated sections that will cause
                                                 -10-

   20120.1 10a
   the second connecting element to collapse and/or deform as a result of a compressive stress
   that does not cause the first connecting element (and in some implementations the first
   connecting piece) to deform or otherwise fail, thereby maintaining a visible surface of the first
   connecting piece that is substantially even.
 5          With continued reference to Figure 3, the second assembly piece 104 is depicted as
   being positioned within an opening 120 defined by the first and second connecting elements
   111, 112. Stated another way, the second assembly piece 104 is shaped to fit within an opening
   120 defined by the first and second connecting elements 111,                112. In one or more
   implementations of the present disclosure, the second assembly piece 104 is associated with a
10 plurality of fastening assemblies 108. As depicted in Figure 3, the second assembly piece 104
   is associated with two fastening assemblies 104. In one or more implementations, the first and
   second assembly pieces 106, 104 are associated with a single fastening assembly 108. The
   number and/or type of fastening assemblies may vary insofar as at least one fastening assembly
   108 is associated with at least one pair of first and second assembly pieces 106, 104.
15          Referring now to Figure 4, depicted is a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary method
   400 for assembling a device while maintaining the aesthetic appearance and structural integrity
   of a visible surface according to one or more implementations of the present disclosure. The
   method of Figure 4 may comprise step 402 of aligning a first assembly piece with a second
   assembly piece, wherein the first assembly piece comprises a first connecting element and a
20 second connecting element. In one or more implementation of the present disclosure, step 402
   may be practiced when assembling a grill as illustrated in Figures 1-3. More particularly, step
   402 may comprise aligning a grill skirt with a support leg, where the grill skirt has a
   substantially even visible surface and the support leg is shaped to fit within an opening of an
   assembly region defined by first and second connecting elements of the grill skirt.
25          The method of Figure 4 may further comprise step 404 of securing the first assembly
   piece to the second assembly piece using a fastening assembly configured to compress the first
   connecting element, the second connecting element, and the second assembly piece together.
   In one or more implementations of the present disclosure, step 404 may comprise securing a
   grill skirt to a support leg using a threaded mating pair that spans the grill skirt and support leg.
30          The method of Figure 4 may further comprise step 406 of tightening the fastening
   assembly such that the second connecting element deforms, thereby pressing a surface of the
   second assembly piece against an adjacent surface of the first connecting element such that a
   visible surface of the first connecting piece retains a substantially even surface. In one or more
   implementations of the present disclosure, step 406 may comprise tightening a threaded mating
                                                 - 11 -

   20120.1 10a
   pair, causing the second connecting element to deform and press the support leg into an interior
   surface of the grill skirt. The support leg may then act as a form to keep the grill skirt from
   deforming as a result of the compressive forces applied by the threaded mating pair-in essence
   maintaining a substantially even visible surface on the grill skirt.
 5         Various alterations and/or modifications of the inventive features illustrated herein, and
   additional applications of the principles illustrated herein, which would occur to one skilled in
   the relevant art and having possession of this disclosure, can be made to the illustrated
   embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the
   claims, and are to be considered within the scope of this disclosure. Thus, while various aspects
10 and embodiments have been disclosed herein, other aspects and embodiments are
   contemplated. While a number of methods and components similar or equivalent to those
   described herein can be used to practice embodiments of the present disclosure, only certain
   exemplary components and methods are described herein.
           It will also be appreciated that systems, devices, products, kits, methods, and/or
15 processes, according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure may include,
   incorporate, or otherwise comprise properties, features (e.g., components, members, elements,
   parts, and/or portions) described in other embodiments disclosed and/or described herein.
   Accordingly, the various features of certain embodiments can be compatible with, combined
   with, included in, and/or incorporated into other embodiments of the present disclosure. Thus,
20 disclosure of certain features relative to a specific embodiment of the present disclosure should
   not be construed as limiting application or inclusion of said features to the specific
   embodiment. Rather, it will be appreciated that other embodiments can also include said
   features, members, elements, parts, and/or portions without necessarily departing from the
   scope of the present disclosure.
25         Moreover, unless a feature is described as requiring another feature in combination
   therewith, any feature herein may be combined with any other feature of a same or different
   embodiment disclosed herein. Furthermore, various well-known aspects of illustrative systems,
   methods, apparatus, and the like are not described herein in particular detail in order to avoid
   obscuring aspects of the example embodiments. Such aspects are, however, also contemplated
30 herein.
           Various aspects of the present disclosure, including devices, systems, and methods may
   be illustrated with reference to one or more embodiments or implementations, which are
   exemplary in nature. As used herein, the term "exemplary" means "serving as an example,
   instance, or illustration," and should not necessarily be construed as preferred or advantageous
                                                 - 12 -

   20120.1 10a
   over other embodiments disclosed herein. In addition, reference to an "implementation" of the
   present disclosure or invention includes a specific reference to one or more embodiments
   thereof, and vice versa, and is intended to provide illustrative examples without limiting the
   scope of the invention, which is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the following
 5 description.
            As used throughout this application the words "can" and "may" are used in a permissive
   sense (i.e., meaning having the potential to), rather than the mandatory sense (i.e., meaning
   must).     Additionally,    the   terms    "including,"    "having,"   "involving,"   "containing,"
   "characterized by," as well as variants thereof (e.g., "includes," "has," "involves," "contains,"
10 etc.), and similar terms as used herein, including within the claims, shall be inclusive and/or
   open-ended, shall have the same meaning as the word "comprising" and variants thereof (e.g.,
   "comprise" and "comprises"), and do not exclude additional un-recited elements or method
   steps, illustratively.
            It will be noted that, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular
15 forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
   Thus, for example, reference to a singular referent (e.g., "widget") includes one, two, or more
   referents. Similarly, reference to a plurality of referents should be interpreted as comprising a
   single referent and/or a plurality of referents unless the content and/or context clearly dictate
   otherwise. For example, reference to referents in the plural form (e.g., "widgets") does not
20 necessarily require a plurality of such referents. Instead, it will be appreciated that independent
   of the inferred number of referents, one or more referents are contemplated herein unless stated
   otherwise.
            The present disclosure may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from
   its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all
25 respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is, therefore,
   indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. While certain
   embodiments and details have been included herein and in the attached disclosure for purposes
   of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure, it will be apparent to those skilled in the
   art that various changes in the methods, products, devices, and apparatus disclosed herein may
30 be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure or of the invention, which is defined
   in the appended claims. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency
   of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.
                                                  - 13 -

   20120.1 10a
                                                 CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
     1.     A system for assembling a device while maintaining the aesthetic appearance and
     structural integrity of a visible surface of the device, the system comprising:
 5                  a first assembly piece, wherein the first assembly piece comprises at least one
            assembly region, the at least one assembly region comprising an opening defined by a
            first connecting element and a second connecting element;
                    a second assembly piece, wherein at least a portion of the second assembly piece
            is shaped to fit within the opening; and
10                  a fastening assembly configured to span the first connecting element and the
            second connecting element, securing the first assembly piece to the second assembly
            piece, wherein tightening of the fastening assembly causes the second connecting
            element to deforn thereby pressing a surface of the second assembly piece against an
            adjacent surface of the first connecting element to retain a substantially even surface of
15          the visible surface.
     2.     A system as in claim 1, wherein the first connecting element is a portion of the first
     assembly piece.
     3.     A system as in claim 1, wherein the device comprises a grill, the first assembly piece
     comprises a grill skirt, and the second assembly piece comprises a support leg, and wherein
20   the visible surface of the device comprises a visible surface of the grill skirt.
     4.     A system as in claim 3, wherein the aesthetic appearance and structural integrity of the
     visible surface of the grill skirt is maintained when the grill is assembled.
     5.     A system as in claim 1, wherein the fastening assembly comprises a mating pair of
     threaded fasteners.
25   6.     A system as in claim 5, wherein the mating pair of threaded fasteners comprise a nut
     and bolt.
     7.     A system as in claim 1, wherein the first and second connecting elements comprise the
     same material.
     8.     A system as in claim 1, wherein the first connecting element comprises a first material
30   and the second connecting element comprises a second material, wherein the second material
     is different than the first material.
     9.     A system as in claim 8, wherein the second material comprises a malleable metal,
     wherein the second material is more malleable than the first material.
                                                 - 14 -

   20120.1 10a
     10.    A system as in claim 1, wherein the second connecting element comprises a material
     comprising a thickness that is less than a thickness of the first connecting element.
     11.    A system as in claim 1, wherein the second connecting element comprises one or more
     perforated or pre-weakened regions that when acted upon by a compressive stress cause at
 5   least a portion of the second connecting element to deform.
     12.    A system as in claim 1, wherein the surface of the second assembly piece comprises a
     contour that is complementary to the adjacent surface of the first connecting element such
     that when the surface and adjacent surfaces are pressed together, tightening of the fastening
     assembly causes the first and second connecting elements to compress together, preventing
10   deformation of the first assembly piece.
     13.    A system as in claim 1, wherein the surface of the second assembly piece comprises a
     contour that is complementary to the adjacent surface of the first connecting element such
     that when the surface and adjacent surfaces are pressed together, tightening of the fastening
     assembly causes the first connecting elements to conform to the contour of the surface of the
15   second assembly piece.
     14.    A method of assembling a device while maintaining the aesthetic appearance and
     structural integrity of a visible surface of the device, the method comprising:
                     aligning a first assembly piece with a second assembly piece, wherein the first
            assembly piece comprises a first connecting element and a second connecting element;
20                   securing the first assembly piece to the second assembly piece using a fastening
            assembly configured to compress the first connecting element, the second connecting
            element, and the second assembly piece together; and
                     tightening the fastening assembly such that the second connecting element
            deforms, thereby pressing a surface of the second assembly piece against an adjacent
25          surface of the first connecting element such that a visible surface of the first connecting
            piece retains a substantially even surface.
     15.    A method as in claim 14, further comprising inserting a portion of the second assembly
     piece into an opening defined by the first connecting element and the second connecting
     element.
30   16.    A method as in claim 14, wherein securing the first assembly piece to the second
     assembly piece comprises spanning the first connecting element and the second connecting
     element with the fastening assembly.
     17.    A system for attaching a leg to a grill skirt without deforming a visible surface of the
     grill skirt, the system comprising:
                                                 - 15 -

   20120.1 10a
                    a grill skirt comprising:
                             a substantially even visible surface; and
                             a leg attachment region, wherein the leg attachment region comprises a
                    predefined surface shape or contour;
 5                  a securing element, wherein the securing element is associated with the leg
            attachment region such that an opening is defined between the securing element and
            the leg attachment region;
                    a leg, wherein at least a portion of the leg is configured to be received in the
            opening;
10                  a fastening assembly, wherein the fastening assembly is configured to span the
            grill skirt, the leg, and the securing element, and wherein tightening the fastening
            assembly causes the securing element to deform, thereby pressing the leg against the
            leg attachment region and retaining the substantially even visible surface of the grill
            skirt.
15   18.    A system as in claim 17. wherein the substantially even visible surface and the leg have
     complementary surface shapes.
     19.   A system as in claim 17, wherein the securing element is configured to deform under a
     lower force than the grill skirt.
     20.   A system as in claim 19, wherein:
20          the securing element is formed of a material that is different from or thinner than a
     material that forms the grill skirt; or
            the securing element comprises one or more perforated or pre-weakened regions that
     when acted upon by a compressive stress cause at least a portion of the securing element to
     deform.
25
                                                  -16-

                  1/4
                       100
              102
    106
          110
105
          108
        104
                             104
                      Fig. 1

 104
108
        105
              2/4
      106
Fig. 2

  105
                  105                106
        108a
106                           108c               3/4
                              108d
         110                  108b
          104
                                           104
                        112
        Fig. 3A               Fig. 3B

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4/4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        108                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     108a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      110                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           118
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  116
                                                                                                                                                                      106
                                                                      111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                108b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          104
                                                                                                                                      112
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  108d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  108c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        105
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Fig. 3C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      400
                                                                                          <U+2701>     <U+2702>         <U+2704>             <U+260E>                   <U+2702>         <U+260E>             <U+2704>                                   <U+2706>               <U+2702>       <U+271D>         <U+271E>           <U+271F>                                 <U+271E>             <U+271E>         <U+2720>             <U+2721>                       <U+261B>             <U+2701>         <U+261E>                 <U+270C>         <U+2702>           <U+2720>           <U+270D>           <U+2720>                 <U+270E>                       <U+2702>       <U+271F>     <U+270F>                                     <U+2711>         <U+2720>         <U+270D>           <U+2712>       <U+260E>           <U+2713>                                   <U+271E>         <U+271E>     <U+2720>           <U+2721>               <U+261B>           <U+2701>       <U+261E>                     <U+270C>           <U+2702>     <U+2720>           <U+270D>         <U+2720>           <U+2714>         <U+270E>                         <U+270F>               <U+2720>             <U+271D>       <U+2720>           <U+2702>     <U+260E>             <U+2715>             <U+270F>             <U+2720>                   <U+2706>     <U+2702>       <U+271D>           <U+271E>       <U+271F>                 <U+271E>           <U+271E>         <U+2720>       <U+2721>               <U+261B>         <U+2701>       <U+261E>
<U+270C>   <U+2702>         <U+2720>         <U+270D>           <U+2720>             <U+2716>                 <U+2712>           <U+2721>                             <U+2717>             <U+271D>             <U+2702>       <U+271E>           <U+2720>           <U+271E>                           <U+2706>               <U+2702>     <U+271D>           <U+271E>           <U+271F>               <U+2716>                 <U+2712>             <U+260E>             <U+260E>               <U+2720>           <U+270D>             <U+271F>     <U+2702>         <U+260E>           <U+2704>               <U+2718>               <U+2701>           <U+2720>           <U+2721>                   <U+2720>       <U+260E>             <U+271F>                         <U+260E>             <U+2713>                               <U+2711>               <U+2720>     <U+270D>           <U+2712>             <U+260E>         <U+2713>               <U+2716>               <U+2712>         <U+260E>       <U+260E>       <U+2720>               <U+270D>           <U+271F>     <U+2702>       <U+260E>         <U+2704>                   <U+2718>             <U+2701>     <U+2720>         <U+2721>                   <U+2720>             <U+260E>             <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            402
                                                                <U+2711>             <U+2720>                   <U+270D>             <U+2719>                 <U+271D>           <U+2702>         <U+260E>             <U+2704>               <U+2715>           <U+270F>           <U+2720>               <U+2706>                 <U+2702>       <U+271D>         <U+271E>           <U+271F>                             <U+271E>             <U+271E>             <U+2720>           <U+2721>                     <U+261B>           <U+2701>       <U+261E>               <U+270C>                 <U+2702>       <U+2720>             <U+270D>     <U+2720>                     <U+2715>               <U+2712>           <U+2715>             <U+270F>         <U+2720>             <U+2711>               <U+2720>         <U+270D>     <U+2712>             <U+260E>             <U+2713>                               <U+271E>       <U+271E>         <U+2720>       <U+2721>               <U+261B>               <U+2701>   <U+261E>                   <U+270C>               <U+2702>   <U+2720>         <U+270D>         <U+2720>               <U+271A>                   <U+271E>         <U+2702>           <U+260E>             <U+2704>                                   <U+2706>             <U+271B>       <U+271E>             <U+271F>     <U+2720>         <U+260E>       <U+2702>     <U+260E>           <U+2704>                         <U+271E>           <U+271E>         <U+2720>       <U+2721>               <U+261B>         <U+2701>       <U+261E>
  <U+2716>         <U+2712>         <U+260E>           <U+271C>       <U+2702>   <U+2704>         <U+2719>             <U+271D>             <U+2720>               <U+2713>                               <U+2715>                 <U+2712>                         <U+2716>           <U+2712>       <U+2721>                   <U+2717>             <U+271D>           <U+2720>         <U+271E>               <U+271E>                 <U+2715>               <U+270F>                 <U+2720>                       <U+2706>               <U+2702>         <U+271D>       <U+271E>       <U+271F>             <U+2716>                     <U+2712>             <U+260E>         <U+260E>           <U+2720>           <U+270D>             <U+271F>   <U+2702>   <U+260E>           <U+2704>                     <U+2718>         <U+2701>     <U+2720>         <U+2721>                   <U+2720>             <U+260E>         <U+271F>     <U+2714>           <U+2715>           <U+270F>           <U+2720>                   <U+2711>               <U+2720>         <U+270D>       <U+2712>             <U+260E>             <U+2713>                     <U+2716>             <U+2712>             <U+260E>       <U+260E>                 <U+2720>             <U+270D>           <U+271F>         <U+2702>     <U+260E>         <U+2704>             <U+2718>               <U+2701>         <U+2720>         <U+2721>             <U+2720>           <U+260E>           <U+271F>     <U+2714>                       <U+260E>               <U+2713>             <U+2715>             <U+270F>             <U+2720>
  <U+2711>   <U+2720>         <U+270D>         <U+2712>             <U+260E>           <U+2713>                                         <U+271E>           <U+271E>           <U+2720>               <U+2721>                         <U+261B>             <U+2701>     <U+261E>         <U+270C>                 <U+2702> <U+2720>               <U+270D>           <U+2720>                 <U+2715>               <U+2712>           <U+2704>           <U+2720>               <U+271F>           <U+270F>           <U+2720>             <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            404
                                                              <U+2715>             <U+2702>               <U+2704>               <U+270F>             <U+271F>             <U+2720>               <U+260E>             <U+2702>     <U+260E>           <U+2704>                 <U+2715>               <U+270F>               <U+2720>                           <U+2706>             <U+271B>             <U+271E>       <U+271F>         <U+2720>                 <U+260E>           <U+2702>       <U+260E>           <U+2704>                                             <U+271E>         <U+271E>             <U+2720>             <U+2721>             <U+261B>           <U+2701>       <U+261E>                     <U+2711>           <U+2719>         <U+270D>         <U+270F>                       <U+2715>           <U+270F>               <U+271B>       <U+271F>                 <U+2715>             <U+270F>           <U+2720>                 <U+2711>           <U+2720>               <U+270D>         <U+2712>           <U+260E>         <U+2713>                           <U+2716>           <U+2712>             <U+260E>         <U+260E>             <U+2720>               <U+270D>             <U+271F>       <U+2702>     <U+260E>           <U+2704>                 <U+2718>                 <U+2701>         <U+2720>       <U+2721>               <U+2720>         <U+260E>             <U+271F>       <U+2722>             <U+2720>         <U+271C>           <U+2712>         <U+271D>     <U+2721>                 <U+271E>         <U+2714>
<U+2715>       <U+270F>         <U+2720>           <U+271D>       <U+2720>         <U+261B>         <U+261E>                           <U+270C>                 <U+271D>           <U+2720>             <U+271E>             <U+271E>         <U+2702>       <U+260E>               <U+2704>                                 <U+2711>               <U+2719>               <U+271D>         <U+271C>           <U+271B>       <U+270D>             <U+2720>                     <U+2723>                     <U+271C>                   <U+2715>               <U+270F>           <U+2720>               <U+2711>               <U+2720>             <U+270D>             <U+2712>         <U+260E>           <U+2713>                                 <U+271E>         <U+271E>         <U+2720>     <U+2721>               <U+261B>           <U+2701>         <U+261E>             <U+270C>             <U+2702>         <U+2720>       <U+270D>         <U+2720>                               <U+2704>           <U+271B>         <U+2702>     <U+260E>           <U+271E>           <U+271F>                             <U+260E>                                     <U+2713>     <U+2724>             <U+271B>           <U+270D>             <U+2720>           <U+260E>             <U+271F>         <U+2711>         <U+2719>           <U+271D>       <U+271C>             <U+271B>       <U+270D>     <U+2720>                   <U+2723>               <U+271C>     <U+2715>         <U+270F>             <U+2720>               <U+2706>             <U+2702>   <U+271D>       <U+271E>         <U+271F>
<U+2716>         <U+2712>         <U+260E>           <U+260E>           <U+2720>         <U+270D>           <U+271F>     <U+2702>         <U+260E>                   <U+2704>                       <U+2718>                     <U+2701>       <U+2720>           <U+2721>                 <U+2720>     <U+260E>           <U+271F>             <U+2711>                 <U+2719>             <U+270D>             <U+270F>                 <U+2715>               <U+270F>                 <U+271B>             <U+271F>                                         <U+2725>               <U+2702> <U+271E>           <U+2702>       <U+261B>                 <U+2701>     <U+2720>                   <U+2711>         <U+2719>             <U+271D>       <U+271C>   <U+271B>           <U+270D>         <U+2720>               <U+2723>           <U+271C>               <U+2715>             <U+270F>             <U+2720>               <U+2706>         <U+2702>       <U+271D>     <U+271E>     <U+271F>             <U+2716>             <U+2712>             <U+260E>           <U+260E>         <U+2720>             <U+270D>         <U+271F>     <U+2702>       <U+260E>           <U+2704>             <U+270C>             <U+2702>       <U+2720>             <U+270D>             <U+2720>                     <U+2726>             <U+2720>       <U+271F>     <U+271B>       <U+2702>       <U+260E>           <U+271E>                                   <U+2711>           <U+2719>           <U+261B>     <U+271E> <U+271F>         <U+271B>           <U+260E>         <U+271F>     <U+2702>     <U+271B>       <U+2701>     <U+2701>       <U+261E>
<U+2727>       <U+2605>         <U+2729>         <U+272A>                 <U+272B>             <U+272C>             <U+272D>             <U+272E>         <U+272F>               <U+2730>             <U+2729>               <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            406
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Fig. 4

