ABSTRACT
Compositions, uses, kits and methods for reducing binge or compulsive eating are described herein.
Methods may include administering an effective combination of a dosage of a bupropion or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a dosage of naltrexone or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof. Methods may include identifying a patient who is overweight or obese and
providing an effective combination of bupropion and naltrexone to the patient. Methods may
include reducing a number of binge or compulsive eating events. Methods may include reducing
severity of binge or compulsive eating events.

                METHODS FOR REDUCING BINGE OR COMPULSIVE EATING
                                                BACKGROUND
Field of the Disclosure
         [0001]            This application is a divisional      of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed on 27 April 2017, which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
2011336298, filed on 2 December 2011, and is related to International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2011/063170, filed on 2 December 2011, and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent
Application No. 61/419,354 filed on 3 December 2010, each of which is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety.
         [0001a]           The present disclosure relates to compositions, kits, uses, and methods for
reducing binge or compulsive eating, preferably in patients receiving treatment for weight loss therapy.
Description of the Related Technology
         [0002]            Obesity has been defined in terms of body mass index ("BMI"). BMI is
                                           2
calculated as weight (kg)/[height     (M)]   . According to the guidelines of the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention ("CDC") and the World Health Organization ("WHO"), for adults over 20 years
old, BMI falls into one of the following categories: below 18.5 kg/m 2 is considered underweight, 18.5
24.9 kg/m 2 is considered normal, 25.0-29.9 kg/m 2 is considered overweight, and 30.0 kg/m 2 and above
is considered obese (World Health Organization. Physical status: The use and interpretation of
anthropometry. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization 1995. WHO Technical Report
Series).
         [0003]            Eating disorders include conditions which may be characterized by abnormal
eating habits. The abnormal eating habits may include either insufficient or excessive food intake to the
detriment of physical and/or emotional health. Such eating disorders may include, for example, binge
eating disorder, bulimia nervosa or anorexia nervosa. Although many eating disorders are associated
with women, eating disorders are not gender specific.
         [0004]            Similar to other eating disorders, binge eating disorder is not gender specific.
Nevertheless, it is approximately twice as common among women as among men. Further, binge eating
disorder is found in all ethno-cultural and racial populations. It was first described in 1959 by
psychiatrist and researcher Albert Stunkard as "Night Eating Syndrome" (NES). However, "Binge
Eating Disorder" describes binging-type eating behavior without regard to when the behavior occurs. If
the person is not already overweight at the time the binge eating behavior starts to manifest itself, the
binge eating may lead to the person being overweight or obese.
                                                      -1-

         [0005]     Binge eating disorder appears common (>20% prevalence) in obese
women.      Obese women with binge eating disorder exhibit higher anxiety, depression,
perceived stress and emotional and external eating scores than obese women without
binge eating disorder. High levels of emotional eating and perceived stress can be used to
predict binge eating disorder (Pinaquy et al., Obesity Research 2003). Although distinct
from binge eating disorder, bulimia nervosa is also commonly associated with depressive
symptoms and increased prevalence of depression.
         [0006]     Higher frequency of emotional eating (but not necessarily binge eating
disorder) has also been associated with higher baseline BMI.        Further, subjects who
experience a decrease in emotional eating from an initially high level have been observed
to experience greater weight loss than subjects who continued to report high levels of
emotional eating (Blair et al., Appetite 1990).
         [0007]     Depression has also been linked to both emotional eating and obesity.
For example, atypical depression is often associated with carbohydrate craving and
weight gain. Higher BMI has also been associated with negative emotional states in the
Diabetes Prevention Program. For example, higher BMI were found to correlate with
feeling deprived, angry, or upset while dieting (Delahantyet al., Diabetes Care 2002).
         [0008]     Depression is typically diagnosed as a major depressive disorder (for
example, unipolar major depression), dysthymic disorder (for example, dysthymia), and
bipolar disorder (for example, manic-depressive illness). There are a number of subtypes
of these major categories of depression. For example, atypical depression is a subtype of
all three major types of depression. Atypical depression is characterized by the capacity
to be cheered up when presented with positive events.           Diagnosis of any type of
depression or mental disorder may be based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental     Disorders,  fourth edition    (DSM-IV)   (American Psychiatric     Association;
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition (DSM-IV),
Washington, D.C., American Psychiatric Press, 1994).         Major depressive disorder is
associated with depressed mood, low energy and motivation, insomnia, and feelings of
worthlessness and hopelessness.      Dysthymic disorder is considered a milder form of
depression with symptoms similar to, but less severe than, those of major depressive
disorder. Bipolar disorder is characterized by extreme swings in mood between mania
and depression, with mania being accompanied by euphoria, grandiosity, increased
energy, decreased need for sleep, rapid speech and risk taking.
                                             -2-

                    SUMMARY OF CERTAIN INVENTIVE ASPECTS
         [0009]     An embodiment of the invention includes a method for treating binge
or compulsive eating, comprising identifying a patient suffering from or at risk of binge
eating disorder or compulsive eating disorder; and administering to the patient a
therapeutically effective amount of bupropion or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, and naltrexone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.           In some
embodiments, the method further comprises instructing the patient to daily administer the
therapeutically effective amount.
         [0010]     In some embodiments, the patient is suffering from or at risk of binge
eating disorder.    In some embodiments, the patient is suffering from or at risk of
compulsive eating disorder.     In some embodiments, the patient's body mass index is
greater than or equal to 25 kg/m2. In some embodiments, the patient's body mass index
is greater than or equal to 27 kg/m2.     In some embodiments, the patient's body mass
index is greater than or equal to 30 kg/m2. In some embodiments, the patient's body
mass index is less than 25 kg/m2. In some embodiments, the patient is not suffering from
a major depressive disorder.
         [0011]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises identifying the
patient as suffering from a major depressive disorder. In some embodiments, the patient
is not suffering from bipolar disorder.
         [0012]     In some embodiments,        the therapeutically  effective amount    is
administered at least once a day. In some embodiments, the therapeutically effective
amount is administered for a period of at least 4, 8, 12, 16, 24, 28 or 56 weeks. In some
embodiments, the naltrexone or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
concurrently with the bupropion or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some
embodiments, a single oral dosage form comprising naltrexone or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof and bupropion or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered to the patient. In some embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount
of naltrexone or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 4 mg to 50 mg per day and
the therapeutically effective amount of bupropion or pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is 30 mg to 500 mg per day. In some embodiments, the therapeutically effective
amount of naltrexone or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 4 mg to 32 mg per
day.    In some embodiments,       the therapeutically effective amount of bupropion or
                                             -3-

pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 90 mg to 360 mg per day.               In some
embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of bupropion or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is 360 mg per day. In some embodiments, the therapeutically
effective amount of naltrexone or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 32 mg per
day. In some embodiments, the bupropion comprises a sustained release formulation. In
some embodiments, the naltrexone comprises a sustained release formulation. In some
embodiments, the patient is female.
         [0013]     In some embodiments, a symptom or measure of the binge eating
disorder or the compulsive eating disorder is reduced by at least 5%.              In some
embodiments, the reduced symptom or measure is strength of binge eating or compulsive
eating events. In some embodiments, the reduced symptom or measure is frequency of
binge eating or compulsive eating events. In some embodiments, the reduced symptom
or measure is the number of binge eating or compulsive eating events.              In some
embodiments, the patient's binge or compulsive eating is measured using a Binge Eating
Scale prior to the start of treatment, and at least once after starting treatment. In some
embodiments, the Binge Eating Scale prior to the start of treatment is reduced by at least
10 following treatment. In some embodiments, the Binge Eating Scale is reduced to less
than 17 following treatment. In some embodiments, the patient is identified as a patient
suffering from or at risk of binge eating disorder or compulsive eating disorder by
administration of a Binge Eating Scale checklist.
         [0014]     An embodiment of the invention includes a method for treating binge
or compulsive eating, comprising identifying a patient suffering from or at risk of
suffering from binge or compulsive eating by administration of a binge eating scale
checklist, the patient having a body mass index (BMI) greater than or equal to 27 kg/m2;
and administering to the patient 16 mg sustained release naltrexone and 180 mg sustained
release bupropion twice daily for a treatment period of more than 4 weeks.
         [0015]     An embodiment of the invention includes the use of bupropion or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and naltrexone or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof in the preparation of a medicament for treating binge or compulsive eating as
described in any of the embodiments disclosed herein.
         [0016]     An    embodiment    of the    invention   includes    a  pharmaceutical
composition for the treatment of binge or compulsive eating as described in any of the
                                            -4-

embodiments disclosed herein comprising bupropion or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof and naltrexone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         [0017]     An embodiment of the invention includes a kit for the treatment of
binge or compulsive eating as described in any of the embodiments disclosed herein
comprising a pharmaceutical composition comprising bupropion or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof and naltrexone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN INVENTIVE EMBODIMENTS
         [0018]     In general, a person having binge eating disorder is characterized by
periodically being unable to exercise control over food consumption. This lack of control
leads to eating of an unusually large amount of food at one time, far more than a normal
person would eat in the same amount of time. Often the person suffering from binge
eating disorder may eat much more quickly during a binge eating episode than during
normal eating.    The person may eat until he or she is physically uncomfortable and
nauseated because of the amount of consumed food. Persons suffering from binge eating
disorder may experience rapid weight gain, including, for example, a sudden onset of
obesity.
         [0019]     Often the amounts of food consumed are large, even when the person
is not hungry. Although the person may not be hungry, the episodes of binge eating may
occur when the person is depressed or bored. During a binge eating episode, the binge
eater may eat alone so as to avoid discovery or otherwise hide the disorder. Even during
episodes of normal eating, however, the binge eater may eat alone due to feelings of
embarrassment about food. Following a binge eating episode, the person may experience
feelings of disgust, depression or guilt.
         [0020]     Symptoms of binge eating are not merely food cravings, and a
reduction in food cravings is not per se a reduction in binge eating. A food craving is an
intense desire to consume a specific food, as opposed to general hunger. Certain foods
are socially and culturally considered to be "comfort foods," such as, for example, in the
United States, ice cream, chocolate, and meat loaf.           Individuals who suffer from
temporary sadness or depression may crave comfort foods and seek temporary respite
from the cause of their unhappiness. It is also well settled that women crave certain foods
because of the hormonal changes in their bodies during the normal menstrual cycle or
during pregnancy.     Food cravings may be common in people following structured diet
                                             -5-

plans, and such food cravings can be difficult to overcome.        Some researchers have
suggested that normal food cravings may be caused by the lack of certain nutrients in the
body. For example, individuals suffering from lack of iron crave crunchy foods, while
hypoglycemic individuals crave pasta or bread, and a person deficient in Vitamin A might
crave liver. In contrast, a person having binge eating disorder will periodically be unable
to exercise control over food consumption, without regard to the particular food being
ingested. Further, unlike food cravings that occur when the person has a hunger, binge
eaters will consume large amounts of food without being hungry.
        [0021]     Binge eating symptoms are often present in the eating disorder bulimia
nervosa. Bulimia nervosa is an eating disorder characterized by recurrent binge eating,
followed by compensatory behaviors. Often these compensatory behaviors include, for
example, defensive vomiting (purging), fasting, excessive exercising, or using of
laxatives, enemas or diuretics. The formal diagnosis criteria or binge eating disorder and
bulimia nervosa are similar in that subjects binge at least twice per week for a minimum
period of three months for bulimia nervosa and a minimum of 6 months for binge eating
disorder. Unlike in bulimia, however, those with binge eating disorder do not purge, fast
or engage in strenuous exercise after binge eating. Additionally, bulimics are typically of
normal weight, are underweight but have been overweight before, or are only slightly
overweight; persons with binge eating disorder are more likely to be overweight or obese.
        [0022]     Binge eating disorder may also have similar symptoms as compulsive
overeating.     Compulsive overeating (or food addiction) is characterized by an
obsessive/compulsive relationship to food.        A person suffering from compulsive
overeating disorder engages in frequent episodes of uncontrolled or binge eating, often
consuming food past the point of being comfortably full.          Similar to binge eating
disorder, this binge eating may be followed by feelings of guilt and depression.
Compulsive overeaters may also eat when they are not hungry. Unlike persons with
bulimia, compulsive overeaters do not attempt to compensate for their binging with
purging behaviors such as fasting, laxative use or vomiting. Unlike persons with bulimia
or binge eating disorder, however, compulsive overeaters obsess about food.            This
obsession may be demonstrated in spending excessive amounts of time and thought
devoted to food. The obsession may also include secret planning or fantasizing about
eating alone. Similar to binge eating disorder, however, compulsive overeating may lead
to weight gain and obesity. Although compulsive overeaters tend to be overweight or
                                            -6-

obese, however, persons of normal or average weight may also be affected.         Thus, in
contrast to persons suffering from compulsive overeating disorder, persons suffering from
binge eating disorder, however, do not have a compulsion to overeat and do not spend a
great deal of time fantasizing about food. On the contrary, some people with binge eating
disorder have very negative feelings about food.
        [0023]      Binge eating disorder affects approximately four million persons in the
United States. Although persons of normal weight may have binge eating disorder, the
majority of persons suffering from binge eating disorder are either overweight or obese.
Between about 10% and about 15% of persons who are mildly obese also suffer from
binge eating disorder. Binge eating disorder is more common, however, in persons who
are severely obese.
        [0024]      Because binge eating can manifest itself in many different ways
depending on the patient, the Binge Eating Scale ("BES") was developed to assess the
severity of binge eating. The BES is a 16-item self-reported checklist designed to assess
different levels of binge-eating severity. Gormally, et al., The assessment of binge eating
severity among obese persons. Addict Behav. 1982; 7(1) pages 47-55. The BES describes
both behavioral manifestations (e.g., eating large amounts of food), and cognitions and
feelings surrounding the binge (e.g., guilt or fear of being unable to stop eating).
Gormally at abstract. The questions are generally aimed at determining the frequency of
bingeing, amount of food eaten during a binge, and emotions surrounding a binge.
Studies showed that the results of the BES correlated strongly to the opinion of trained
observers looking to the frequency of bingeing, amount of food eaten during a binge, and
emotions surrounding a binge. Gormally at 50-51. Thus, the BES is a reliable tool for
determining binge eating severity.
        [0025]      Similar to other eating      disorders, binge eating   disorder is an
"expressive disorder" in that the disorder may be an expression of deeper psychological
problems.
Causes and Complications of Binge Eating Disorder or Binge Eating Episodes
        [0026]      The cause of binge eating disorder is unknown.         Some common
characteristics may be present in persons having binge eating disorder. For example,
about half of all people who have suffered from binge eating disorder have also suffered
from depression.     Nevertheless, other emotions such as happiness, anger, sadness or
                                             -7-

boredom may act as trigger points for binge eating episodes. Some people suffering from
binge eating disorder claim that binging events occur regardless of mood.
          [0027]     Research also suggests that binge eating disorder may be more
common among competitive athletes, such as swimmers or gymnasts, whose body form is
(or was) regularly on public display. Some athletes in these sports compare their body in
a negative way with those of their teammates.
          [0028]     Binge eating disorder may also be linked to a genetic inheritance factor
independent of other obesity risks. Furthermore, there is a higher incidence of psychiatric
comorbidity with binge eating disorder.
          [0029]     It is also unclear whether dieting and binge eating are related. Some
studies show that about half of all people with binge eating disorder had binge episodes
before they started to diet. Furthermore, dieting may be difficult, or even harmful, for
those suffering from binge eating disorder. People who are not overweight may make
binge eating worse by skipping meals, not eating enough calories per day, or avoiding
certain kinds of food such as carbohydrates or fats. Those who are overweight or obese
find it difficult to stay in a weight-loss program. They may lose less weight than other
people, and regain weight more quickly due to a slowing of the metabolism. Those with
additional psychiatric disorders, such as depression, may have an even harder time. Thus,
it is often beneficial to treat the binge eating disorder before dieting.
          [0030]     After an episode of binge eating, individuals are often very upset and
may become depressed. People tend to overeat from time to time, but a consistent habit
of binge eating can lead to weight gain and obesity. Problematic health consequences can
occur as a result of the weight gain. Additionally, people may become ill due to a lack of
proper nutrition. Bingeing episodes often include foods that are high in fat, sugar, and/or
salt, but low in vitamins and minerals. Individuals who binge eat, particularly those who
are obese, may also be at risk for type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure (hypertension),
high blood cholesterol levels (hypercholesterolemia), gallbladder disease, heart disease,
and certain types of cancer.
Control of Binge Eating Disorder
          [0031]     Many      people   with   binge   eating   disorder  have  tried,  often
unsuccessfully, to control it on their own.        Some people miss work, school, or social
activities to binge eat. Those who binge eat, whether obese or not, may feel ashamed and
                                                -8-

attempt to hide the problem. As with other eating disorders, those who suffer from binge
eating disorder may become so adept at hiding it that even close friends and family
members are unaware that they binge eat.
        [0032]     Several different methods have been used to treat or ameliorate
symptoms of binge eating disorder. For example, cognitive-behavioral therapy attempts
to teach persons how to keep track of eating and change unhealthy eating habits. It may
also teach how to change eating behaviors in tempting or otherwise difficult situations.
Interpersonal psychotherapy attempts to teach persons to examine relationships with
friends and family and make changes in problem relationships.        For persons who are
overweight or obese, a weight-loss program in combination with counseling to pinpoint
the root of the psychological problems triggering their binge episodes may be used.
Other methods may include administration of one or more drugs.           These and other
methods may be used alone or in combination to effectively treat or ameliorate symptoms
of persons suffering from binge eating disorder.
        [0033]     The disclosure of the present application is directed to administration
of a pharmaceutical formulation to treat or ameliorate symptoms of binge eating disorder.
In preferred embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises a therapeutically
effective amount of bupropion or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and
naltrexone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
        [0034]     In certain embodiments, the patient is overweight or obese. In some
embodiments, the patient has a body mass index of 25 kg/m 2 or above. In another aspect
of this embodiment, the patient has a body mass index of 27 kg/m 2 or above. In a further
aspect of this embodiment, the patient has a body mass index of 30 kg/m2 or above. In
certain embodiments, the patient is female.
        [0035]     As discussed, patients who suffer from binge eating disorder may also
suffer from a major depressive disorder. In certain embodiments, the patient has been
diagnosed with a major depressive disorder. In some embodiments, the patient has been
diagnosed as suffering from major depressive disorder using the Montgomery-Asberg
Depression Rating Scale.     In some embodiments, the patient has been diagnosed as
suffering   from major depressive      disorder using the Inventory        of Depressive
Symptomatology.      In some embodiments, the patient is not suffering from bipolar
disorder.
                                            -9-

        [0036]      In some embodiments, naltrexone and bupropion are each administered
once per day to treat binge eating. In some embodiments, naltrexone and bupropion are
each divided into equal doses and administered more than once per day.             In some
embodiments, naltrexone and bupropion are each divided into unequal doses and
administered more than once per day. In some embodiments, naltrexone and bupropion
are divided into a different number of doses and are administered a different number of
times per day. In one such embodiment, the dose of one of naltrexone or bupropion is
divided, while the dose of the other is not.
        [0037]      In some embodiments, one or both of naltrexone and bupropion is
administered one, two, three, four, or more times per day. In some embodiments, one or
both of naltrexone and bupropion are administered in a controlled release formulation.
Either or both compounds can be administered less than once per day, for example once
every 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, or 14 days, or every 1 or 2 weeks, or a range
defined by any two of the preceding values.
        [0038]      The exact formulation, route of administration, and dosage for
naltrexone and bupropion combinations described herein can be chosen by the individual
physician in view of the patient's condition.        (See e.g., Fingl et al. 1975, in "The
Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics," Ch. 1 p. 1). In some embodiments, the daily
dose of naltrexone and bupropion is the same, and in some embodiments, the daily dose is
different.
        [0039]      In some embodiments, the daily dose of naltrexone is, or is about, 4 mg
to 50 mg, or 4 mg to 32 mg, or 8 mg to 32 mg, or 8 mg to 16 mg. In some embodiments,
the daily dose is, or is about, 4 mg, 8 mg, 12 mg, 16 mg, 32 mg, or 48 mg of naltrexone,
or a range defined by any two of the preceding values. In some embodiments, the daily
dose is administered in a single oral dosage form. The selection of a particular dosage
may be based on the weight of the patient. The selection of a particular dosage may be
based on the identity, dosage, and/or dosing schedule of another co-administered
compound. However, in some embodiments, it may be necessary to use dosages outside
these ranges.
        [0040]      In some embodiments, the daily dose of bupropion is, or is about, 30
mg to 500 mg, or 30 mg to 360 mg, or 90 mg to 360 mg. In some embodiments, the daily
dose is, or is about, 30 mg, 90 mg, 180 mg, 360 mg, or 450 mg of bupropion, or a range
defined by any two of the preceding values. In some embodiments, the daily dose is
                                              -10-

administered in a single oral dosage form. The selection of a particular dosage may be
based on the weight of the patient. The selection of a particular dosage may be based on
the identity, dosage and/or dosing schedule of another co-administered compound.
However, in some embodiments, it may be necessary to use dosages outside these ranges.
        [0041]      In some embodiments where one or both of naltrexone and bupropion
are administered less than once per day in a controlled release or sustained release (SR)
formulation, the dose is selected so that the patient receives a daily dose that is about the
same as a daily dose described herein.
        [0042]      In some embodiments, at least one of naltrexone or bupropion is
administered in consistent daily dosages throughout the period of treatment. In some
embodiments, at least one of naltrexone or bupropion is administered in varying daily
dosages during the period of treatment. In some of these embodiments, the daily dosages
comprise increasing daily dosages over time. In some of these embodiments, the daily
dosages comprise decreasing daily dosages over time. In some embodiments, a dosage
includes 8 mg of sustained release naltrexone and 90 mg of sustained release bupropion
administered daily for a first week, 16 mg of sustained release naltrexone and 180 mg of
sustained release bupropion administered daily for a second week, 24 mg of sustained
release naltrexone and 270 mg of sustained release bupropion administered daily for a
third week and 32 mg of sustained release naltrexone and 360 mg of sustained release
bupropion administered daily for a fourth week. In some embodiments, a dosage includes
a single tablet comprising 8 mg of sustained release naltrexone and 90 mg of sustained
release bupropion administered daily for a first week, two single tablets administered
daily for a second week, three single tablets administered daily in a third week and four of
the single tablets administered daily in a fourth week.
        [0043]      In some embodiments, naltrexone and bupropion are administered
individually.   In some embodiments, naltrexone and bupropion are administered in a
single pharmaceutical composition comprising naltrexone and bupropion.              In some
embodiments, at least one of naltrexone or bupropion is in a sustained release or
controlled release formulation. For example, sustained release forms of naltrexone are
described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007/0281021, which is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety and for all purposes, including without limitation for the purpose
of describing sustained release forms of naltrexone and bupropion, methods of making
and formulating them into suitable dosage forms, and methods of administering them. In
                                             -11-

some embodiments, at least one of naltrexone or bupropion is administered with a
physiologically acceptable carrier, diluent, or excipient, or a combination thereof. Non
limiting examples of naltrexone/bupropion combinations, formulations thereof, and
methods of administering them are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,375,111 and
7,462,626, both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and for all
purposes, including without limitation for the purpose of describing combinations of
naltrexone and bupropion, methods of making and formulating them into suitable dosage
forms, and methods of administering them. Reference herein to the use or administration
of naltrexone/bupropion combinations will be understood to include all modes of
administration disclosed or referred to herein, including without limitation separate
administration, administration in a single dosage form, administration in the form of salts,
prodrugs    and/or metabolites,     and/or administration       in sustained release forms.
Techniques for formulation and administration of the compounds of the instant
application may be found in "Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences," Mack Publishing
Co., Easton, PA, 18th edition, 1990, which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety.
         [0044]     In some embodiments, naltrexone is administered prior to the
bupropion.      In some embodiments, naltrexone is administered subsequent to the
bupropion. In some embodiments, naltrexone and the bupropion are co-administered. As
used herein, co-administration includes administration in a single dosage form, or
separate dosage forms that are administered at, or nearly at, the same time.
         [0045]     In some embodiments, the administration of naltrexone and bupropion
is continued for a period of, or of about, 4, 12, 16, 20, 24, 36, 48, or 52 weeks, or a range
defined by any two of the preceding values. In some embodiments, the administration of
naltrexone and bupropion is continued until the reduction in symptoms of binge eating is
stabilized for a period of, or of about, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more weeks, or a
range defined by any two of the preceding values.                 In some embodiments, the
administration of naltrexone and bupropion is continued until the mitigation of binge
eating is stabilized for a period of, or of about, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more weeks,
or a range defined by any two of the preceding values.                  In some embodiments,
administration of naltrexone and bupropion is continued until the individual no longer
needs treatment for binge eating.
                                              -12-

         [0046]     The compositions described herein may, if desired, be presented in a
pack or dispenser device which may contain one or more unit dosage forms containing
one or both of the active ingredients. The pack may, for example, comprise metal or
plastic foil, such as a blister pack. The pack or dispenser device may be accompanied by
instructions for administration. The pack or dispenser may also be accompanied with a
notice associated with the container in form prescribed by a governmental agency
regulating the manufacture, use, or sale of pharmaceuticals, which notice is reflective of
approval by the agency of the form of the drug for human administration. Such notice,
for example, may be the labeling approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for
prescription drugs, or the approved product insert. The product insert can include, for
example, information regarding adverse events, dosage, dosing schedules and efficacy.
Compositions comprising a compound of the present disclosure formulated in a
compatible pharmaceutical carrier may also be prepared, placed in an appropriate
container, and labeled for treatment of an indicated condition. Non-limiting examples of
packs and dispensers as well as oral dosage forms are disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication
Nos. 2008-0110792 and 2008-0113026, both of which are hereby incorporated herein by
reference in their entirety and for all purposes, including without limitation for the
purpose of describing combinations of naltrexone and bupropion, methods of making and
formulating them into suitable dosage forms, methods of packing and dispensing them,
and methods of administering them.
         [0047]     Instructions and/or information may be present in a variety of forms,
including printed information on a suitable medium or substrate (e.g., a piece or pieces of
paper on which the information is printed), computer readable medium (e.g., diskette,
CD, etc., on which the information has been recorded), or a website address that may be
accessed via the internet. Printed information may, for example, be provided on a label
associated with a drug product, on the container for a drug product, packaged with a drug
product, or separately given to the patient apart from a drug product, or provided in
manner that the patient can independently obtain the information (e.g., a website).
Printed information may also be provided to a medical caregiver involved in treatment of
the patient.
         [0048]     Using the pharmaceutical compositions described herein, patients may
exhibit reduced or fewer symptoms of binge eating when compared to using a placebo, or
                                             -13-

compared to prior to starting treatment. In some embodiments, patients exhibit fewer or
less severe binge or compulsive eating events.
         [0049]     A patient's progress may be monitored by any method that allows one
to measure the symptoms of binge or compulsive eating. In an embodiment, the patient's
progress may be monitored using a control of eating scale. In certain embodiments, the
control of eating scale is the Binge Eating Scale (BES). In certain embodiments, patients
may exhibit a decreased BES value during or after treatment when compared with before
treatment. In certain embodiments, patients may show a significant change in BES score
after 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 12, 12, 13, 14, or more days, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 or more weeks, 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,
11, 12 or more months of treatment, or a range defined by any two of the preceding
values. In some embodiments, the BES score decreases to below the moderate severity
level (> 17) for binge eating at some time during or after treatment.
         [0050]     In any of the embodiments disclosed herein, the BES score may be
determined at the beginning of the treatment period to measure the severity of binge or
compulsive eating in each patient or subject. At various other times in the treatment
period a BES is administered. The results of each BES for each patient or subject can be
compared with one or more previous or subsequent BES score. In some embodiments
treatment results in a significant decrease in the severity of binge or compulsive eating in
the subject. In some embodiments, treatment results in a decrease in the frequency of
binge or compulsive eating events or the severity of a binge or compulsive eating event.
In some embodiments, the decrease in BES score as measured against a starting or prior
BES score is, is about, is at least, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50,
55, or 60 %,or is a range defined by any of the preceding values. In some embodiments,
the BES score of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16 questions
significantly decreases. In some embodiments, the decrease in BES score for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16 questions as measured against a starting or prior
BES score for the same number of questions is, is about, or is at least, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, or 60 %. In some embodiments, the measured
BES score decreases from severe to moderate. In some embodiments, the measured BES
score decreases from severe to low. In some embodiments, the measured BES score
decreases from moderate to low.           In some embodiments, the measured BES score
decreases to below the moderate severity level (> 17).
                                                -14-

         [0051]     In some embodiments, a study of administration of sustained release
naltrexone and sustained release bupropion to treat binge or compulsive eating is
provided. In some embodiments, a first group of study subjects are provided with an oral
dosage form of sustained release naltrexone and an oral dosage form sustained release
bupropion. A second group of study subjects is provided with placebo. Each subject in
the first group and each subject in the second group is administered a BES at various
times during the treatment period. It is observed that over at least a portion of the course
of the treatment period a measure of binge or compulsive eating decreases in subjects of
the first group as compared with subjects of the second group. In other words, the
frequency of binge or compulsive eating events decreases or the severity of each binge or
compulsive eating event decreases over the course of the treatment period for subjects in
the first group as compared to subjects in the second group.
         [0052]     Throughout the present disclosure, when a particular compound is
mentioned by name, for example, bupropion or naltrexone, it is understood that the scope
of the present disclosure encompasses pharmaceutically acceptable salts, esters, amides,
metabolites, or prodrugs of the named compound.              For example, in any of the
embodiments herein, an active metabolite of naltrexone, e.g., 6-3 naltrexol, can be used in
combination with, or instead of, naltrexone. In any of the embodiments herein, an active
metabolite of bupropion, including S,S-hydroxybupropion (for example, radafaxine), can
be used in combination with, or instead of, bupropion.
         [0053]     As used herein, "mitigate" or "mitigation" of binge eating includes
preventing or decreasing the amount of weight gain associated with binge eating or with
the administration of another drug therapy for binge eating.        In some embodiments,
mitigation is measured relative to the amount of weight gain typically experienced when
only one or neither of naltrexone or bupropion is administered. In some embodiments,
mitigation is measured relative to the reduction in numbers of binge eating events. In
some embodiments, mitigation is measured relative to the reduction in severity of binge
eating events.
         [0054]     As used herein, "promotion" of weight loss includes causing weight
loss relative to a baseline weight for a least a portion of the period of treatment. This
includes an individual that initially gains some weight, but during the course of treatment
loses weight relative to a baseline prior to beginning treatment, as well as individuals that
regain a portion or all of the weight that is lost by the end of the treatment period. In a
                                             -15-

preferred embodiment, at the end of the treatment period, the individual has lost weight
relative to a baseline. In a preferred embodiment, mitigation of weight gain or promotion
of weight loss in a patient administered naltrexone and bupropion is greater than when
neither or only one of naltrexone or bupropion is administered, and more preferably an at
least additive, or better than additive, or synergistic, effect of administering the two
compounds is achieved.
         [0055]     The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to a formulation of
a compound that does not cause significant irritation to an organism to which it is
administered and does not abrogate the biological activity and properties of the
compound.       Pharmaceutical salts can be obtained by routine experimentation.       Non
limiting examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include bupropion hydrochloride,
radafaxine hydrochloride, naltrexone hydrochloride, and 6-3 naltrexol hydrochloride.
         [0056]     A "prodrug" refers to an agent that is converted into the parent drug in
vivo.   Prodrugs are often useful because, in some situations, they may be easier to
administer than the parent drug.       They may, for instance, be bioavailable by oral
administration to a greater extent than the parent. The prodrug may also have improved
solubility in pharmaceutical compositions over the parent drug, demonstrate increased
palatability, or be easier to formulate.     Non-limiting examples of suitable prodrugs
include those described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007/0117827, which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes, including without
limitation for the purposes of describing naltrexone metabolites and prodrugs thereof,
methods of making and formulating them into suitable dosage forms, and methods of
administering them.
         [0057]     The following examples are intended to illustrate but not limit the
present disclosure.
                                        EXAMPLE 1
         [0058]     A 24-week study of sustained release naltrexone and sustained release
bupropion for minimization of binge eating in subjects with BMI >27 and <43 kg/m 2 was
performed. The 25 subjects were between the ages of 18 and 65 and had been diagnosed
with major depression, but without other serious medical or psychiatric illness. Table 1
details the history of major depression for all enrolled subjects. As used in Table 1, SD  =
standard deviation, aCurrent episode of major depression was first for subject, bSubjects
                                            -16-

had multiple episodes of major depression, but total number was unknown, and 'Age at
first depression diagnosis, n=24.
                                          Table 1
Total number of episodes of major depression                                n=25
        Ola                                                              9(36.0%)
        02                                                               4 (16.0%)
        03                                                                2 (8.0%)
        04                                                               4(16.0%)
        05                                                                2 (8.0%)
        06                                                                1 (4.0%)
        08                                                                1 (4.0%)
        Unknown'                                                          2 (8.0%)
Age at first depression diagnosis (years)'                                  n=24
        Mean (Standard Deviation)                                     35.29 (16.11)
        Median                                                              40.50
        Range (minimum, maximum)                                        5.00, 56.00
Features of current episode of major depression                             n=25
        Atypical features                                               13 (52.0%)
        Melancholic features                                            12 (48.0%)
        Other features                                                         0
Subject has additional psychiatric history                                  n=25
        Yes                                                             21 (84.0%)
        No                                                               4 (16.0%)
Duration of current episode (months)                                        n=25
        Mean (Standard Deviation)                                      10.20 (13.98)
        Median                                                               6.00
        Range (minimum, maximum)                                        2.00, 72.00
         [0059]     All subjects were currently experiencing an episode of major
depression at the start of the study. Thus, subjects who reported 1 episode of major
depression were currently experiencing their first episode of major depression. Subjects
with an unknown number of episodes of major depression reported multiple episodes but
the total number was unknown.
         [0060]     The study was conducted for up to 24 weeks. The first four weeks is
considered the titration period and the following 20 weeks is considered the maintenance
period.    During the first week, subjects took one tablet (8 mg of sustained release
naltrexone and 90 mg of sustained release bupropion) in the morning. During the second
                                            -17-

week, subjects took one tablet in the morning and one tablet in the evening. Subjects
took two tablets in the morning and one tablet in the evening for the third week. During
the fourth week, subjects took two tablets in the morning and two tablets in the evening.
The twice daily doses were to be separated by at least 8 hours. During the maintenance
period of 20 weeks following the titration period, subjects took two tablets twice daily
with food. Additionally, subjects participated in ancillary therapy that included meetings
with study staff, diet instruction, advice on diet behavior modification and a prescription
for exercise.
        [0061]      Each subject completed a BES checklist at baseline (Day 1) and at
Weeks 4, 8, 12, and 24 (or at early termination). Binge Eating Scale (BES) is a 16-item
self-reported checklist designed to assess different levels of binge-eating severity.
Gormally, et al., The assessment of binge eating severity among obese persons. Addict
Behav. 1982; 7(1) pages 47-55. Subjects were instructed to read all statements in each
group of the checklist and place a mark next to the statement that best describes their
eating behavior. The BES total score is the sum of the 16 items and ranges from 0 to 46.
A BES total score of > 17 indicates a degree of severity that is at least moderate.
        [0062]      The 16-item BES assessed different levels of binge eating during the
study. At screening, 18 of the 25 enrolled subjects had a history of binge eating disorder.
The mean BES score total score for the full analysis set was 28.74 and the median was
31.00 at baseline. At week 12 (LOCF), the mean BES total score was 13.95, with a mean
decrease from baseline of 14.67. At week 24 (LOCF), the mean BES total score was
12.57, with a mean decrease from baseline of 16.05. The mean BES scores at both Week
12 and Week 24 (LOCF) decreased from baseline to below the moderate severity level (>
17) for binge eating.
        [0063]      Other efficacy measures were: change in waist circumference; serum
leptin and ghrelin levels; salivary cortisol levels; safety and tolerability. Adverse events
and vital signs (e.g., systolic and diastolic blood pressure and pulse) were used to monitor
safety and tolerability.    With the exception of the change in waist circumference and
salivary cortisol levels, secondary measures indicated change that was generally
consistent.   The lack of treatment effect on waist circumference and salivary cortisol
levels may be due to small sample size or high variability of these measures.
        [0064]      Table 2 details the BES Total Score at baseline, 12 weeks, 24 weeks
(LOCF), and the change from baseline at 12 and 24 weeks. As used in Table 2, BES           =
                                              -18-

Binge Eating Scale; CI     =  confidence interval; LOCF  = last observation carried forward;
and SD    =  standard deviation. Endpoint is Week 12, Week 24, or the last non-missing
measurement prior to either Week 12 or Week 24 for analysis on Week 12 or Week 24,
respectively. T-tests were calculated to evaluate whether the change from baseline was
statistically significant from zero, with the 95% CI reported. Results were based on the
LOCF method. If <20% of the scale item scores were missing, the scale total score was
imputed by multiplying the average of the non-missing scale item scores by the total
number of scale item scores possible. If >20% of scale item scores were missing, the
scale total score was set to missing. Full analysis set included all subjects who received
study drug, had a baseline measurement, and had at least one postbaseline MADRS total
score measurement while on study drug.
                                            Table 2
              Timepoint                                    BES Total Score
              Baseline                                            n=23
                      Mean (Standard Deviation)               28.74 (8.70)
                      Median (range)                     31.00 (8.00 to 41.00)
                      95% Confidence Interval                (24.98, 32.50)
                      (lower, upper)
              Week 12                                             n=21
                      Mean (Standard Deviation)               13.95 (10.62)
                      Median (range)                      16.00 (0.00 to 35.00)
                      95% Confidence Interval                 (9.12, 18.79)
                      (lower, upper)
              Week 12: Change from Baseline                       n=21
                      Mean (Standard Deviation)               -14.67 (9.98)
                      Median (range)                    -12.00 (-35.00 to -3.00)
                      95% Confidence Interval               (-19.21, -10.12)
                      (lower, upper)
                      p-value                                    <0.001
              Week 24                                             n=21
                      Mean (Standard Deviation)               12.57 (10.83)
                      Median (range)                      9.00 (0.00 to 35.00)
                      95% Confidence Interval                 (7.64, 17.50)
                      (lower, upper)
              Week 24: Change from Baseline                       n=21
                      Mean (Standard Deviation)               -16.05 (9.62)
                      Median (range)                    -16.00 (-35.00 to -2.00)
                                              -19-

                      95% Confidence Interval             (-20.43, -11.67)
                      (lower, upper)
                      p-value                                  <0.001
         [0065]      There were a number of changes to BES responses for each of the 16
questions over the 24 week period. Responses to each of the BES questions indicated
binge eating was mitigated by administration of naltrexone and bupropion over the course
of the titration period and the maintenance period.
                                        EXAMPLE 2
         [0066]      A study    of sustained release naltrexone    and sustained release
bupropion for treatment of binge or compulsive eating is provided.            Subjects are
identified as experiencing binge or compulsive eating based upon a Binge Eating Scale
("BES") checklist or an equivalent diagnostic measure (e.g., professional assessment).
Binge or compulsive eating severity is measured by the severity of individual events
and/or by the frequency of such events. Subjects are also identified as having an initial
body mass index ("BMI") >30 kg/m 2 . Subjects are not limited based upon race or gender.
         [0067]      Subjects are provided with an oral dosage of 8 mg sustained release
naltrexone and 90 mg sustained release bupropion a day for 1 week, 16 mg sustained
release naltrexone and 180 mg sustained release bupropion a day for a second week, 24
mg sustained release naltrexone and 270 mg sustained release bupropion a day for a third
week, and 32 mg sustained release naltrexone and 360 mg sustained release bupropion a
day thereafter for the course of the study.
         [0068]      A baseline BES score or equivalent is obtained before treatment
begins, and at least once more after at least one week of treatment.       Subjects show a
significant reduction in one or more measures of binge and/or compulsive eating as
measured by the BES or equivalent following treatment as compared to baseline and/or
one or more prior BES scores or equivalent during treatment.
                                        EXAMPLE 3
         [0069]      In another study, subjects are identified in the same manner as
Example 2. Subjects are divided into two groups. Group 1 is provided with an oral dose
of sustained release naltrexone and an oral dosage of sustained release bupropion in the
same manner and over the same treatment period as described in Example 2. Group 2 is
                                            -20-

administered placebo in the same manner as the oral dosages that are provided to Group
1. Both Group 1 and Group 2 participate in the study for the same treatment period.
         [0070]     A baseline BES score or equivalent is obtained before treatment
begins, and at least once more after at least one week of treatment. Subjects receiving
naltrexone/bupropion treatment show a significant reduction in one or more measures of
binge and/or compulsive eating as measured by a BES or equivalent as compared to
baseline and/or one or more prior BES scores or equivalent during treatment, as well as in
comparison to the placebo treatment group at baseline and/or at one or more time points
during treatment.
                                       EXAMPLE 4
         [0071]     In another study, subjects are identified as experiencing binge or
compulsive eating based upon a BES checklist or equivalent as described in Example 2.
Subjects are also identified as having an initial BMI >27 kg/m 2 and having one or more
risk factors, including diabetes, dyslipidemia, or hypertension. Subjects are not limited
based upon race or gender. Subjects are provided with an oral dosage form of sustained
release naltrexone and an oral dosage of sustained release bupropion in the same dosage
in the same manner for the same treatment period as described above in Example 2.
         [0072]     A baseline BES score or equivalent is obtained before treatment
begins, and at least once more after at least one week of treatment. Subjects show a
significant reduction in one or more measures of binge and/or compulsive eating as
measured by the BES or equivalent following treatment as compared to baseline and/or
one or more prior BES scores or equivalent during treatment.
                                       EXAMPLE 5
         [0073]     In another study, subjects are identified in the same manner as
Example 4. Subjects are divided into two groups. Group 1 is provided with an oral dose
of sustained release naltrexone and an oral dosage of sustained release bupropion in the
same manner and for the same treatment period as described in Example 2. Group 2 is
provided with placebo for administration for the same treatment period in the same
manner as the oral dosages provided in Group 1. Both Group 1 and Group 2 participate
in the second study for the same treatment period.
                                            -21-

        [0074]     A baseline BES score or equivalent is obtained before treatment
begins, and at least once more after at least one week of treatment. Subjects receiving
naltrexone/bupropion treatment show a significant reduction in one or more measures of
binge and/or compulsive eating as measured by a BES or equivalent as compared to
baseline and/or one or more prior BES scores or equivalent during treatment, as well as in
comparison to the placebo treatment group at baseline and/or at one or more time points
during treatment.
                                        EXAMPLE 6
        [0075]     In another study, subjects are identified as experiencing binge or
compulsive eating based upon a BES checklist or equivalent as described in Example 2.
Subjects are also identified as having an initial BMI >27 kg/m 2 . Subjects are not limited
based upon race or gender.      Subjects are divided into two groups.   Group 1 includes
subjects suffering from depression or a depression related disorder.     Group 2 includes
subjects without depression or a depression related disorder. Subjects in both Group 1
and Group 2 are provided with an oral dosage form of sustained release naltrexone and an
oral dosage of sustained release bupropion in the same dosage in the same manner for the
same treatment period as described above in Example 2.
        [0076]     A baseline BES score or equivalent is obtained before treatment
begins, and at least once more after at least one week of treatment.      Subjects in both
Group 1 and Group 2 show a significant reduction in one or more measures of binge
and/or compulsive eating as measured by the BES or equivalent following treatment as
compared to baseline and/or one or more prior BES scores or equivalent during treatment.
        [0077]     It will be understood by those of skill in the art that numerous and
various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit of the present
disclosure.    Therefore, it should be clearly understood that the embodiments and
examples disclosed herein are illustrative only and are not intended to limit the scope of
the disclosure.   Any reference referred to herein is incorporated by reference for the
material discussed herein, and in its entirety.
                                             -22-

         [00781         The term "comprise" and variants of the term such as "comprises" or
''comprising" are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but
not to exclude any other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an
exclusive interpretation of the term is required.
         [00791         Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an
admission that the disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
                                                -22a-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1. A method for treating binge or compulsive eating, comprising:
                identifying a patient suffering from or at risk of binge eating disorder or
        compulsive eating disorder; and
                administering  to the patient a therapeutically effective         amount of
        bupropion or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and naltrexone or a
        pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        2. A method of claim 1, further comprising:
                instructing the patient to daily administer the therapeutically effective
        amount.
        3.   The method of any of Claims 1-2, wherein the patient is suffering from or at
risk of binge eating disorder.
        4. The method of any of Claims 1-2, wherein the patient is suffering from or at
risk of compulsive eating disorder.
        5. The method of any of Claims 1-4, wherein the patient's body mass index is
greater than or equal to 25 kg/m2 .
        6. The method of any of Claims 1-4, wherein the patient's body mass index is
greater than or equal to 27 kg/m2 .
        7. The method of any of Claims 1-4, wherein the patient's body mass index is
greater than or equal to 30 kg/m2 .
         8. The method of any of Claims 1-4, wherein the patient's body mass index is
less than 25 kg/m 2.
        9. The method of any of Claims 1-8, wherein the patient is not suffering from a
major depressive disorder.
         10. The method of any of Claims 1-8 further comprising identifying the patient as
suffering from a major depressive disorder.
         11. The method of Claim 10, wherein the patient is not suffering from bipolar
disorder.
         12. The method of any of Claims 1-11, wherein the therapeutically effective
amount is administered at least once a day.
         13. The method of any of Claims 1-12, wherein the therapeutically effective
amount is administered for a period of at least 4, 8, 12, 16, 24, 28 or 56 weeks.
                                             -23-

         14. The   method   of any     of  Claims   1-13,   wherein    the  naltrexone or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered concurrently with the bupropion
or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         15. The method of any of Claims 1-14, wherein a single oral dosage form
comprising naltrexone or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and bupropion or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered to the patient.
         16. The method of any of Claims 1-15, wherein the therapeutically effective
amount of naltrexone or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 4 mg to 50 mg per
day and the therapeutically effective amount of bupropion or pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof is 30 mg to 500 mg per day.
         17. The method of any of Claims 1-16, wherein the therapeutically effective
amount of naltrexone or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 4 mg to 32 mg per
day.
         18. The method of any of Claims 1-17, wherein the therapeutically effective
amount of bupropion or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 90 mg to 360 mg per
day.
         19. The method of any of Claims 1-18, wherein the therapeutically effective
amount of bupropion or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 360 mg per day.
        20. The method of any of Claims 1-19, wherein the therapeutically effective
amount of naltrexone or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 32 mg per day.
        21. The method of any of Claims 1-20, wherein the bupropion comprises a
sustained release formulation.
        22. The method of any of Claims 1-21, wherein the naltrexone comprises a
sustained release formulation.
        23. The method of any of Claims 1-22, wherein the patient is female.
        24. The method of any of Claims 1-23, wherein a symptom or measure of the
binge eating disorder or the compulsive eating disorder is reduced by at least 5%.
        25. The method of Claim 24, wherein the reduced symptom or measure is strength
of binge eating or compulsive eating events.
        26. The method of Claim 24, wherein the reduced symptom or measure is
frequency of binge eating or compulsive eating events.
        27. The method of Claim 24, wherein the reduced symptom or measure is the
number of binge eating or compulsive eating events.
                                            -24-

        28. The method of any of Claims 1-27, wherein the patient's binge or compulsive
eating is measured using a Binge Eating Scale prior to the start of treatment, and at least
once after starting treatment.
        29. The method of Claim 28, wherein the value of the Binge Eating Scale prior to
the start of treatment is reduced by at least 10 following treatment.
        30. The method of Claim 28, wherein the value of the Binge Eating Scale is
reduced to less than 17 following treatment.
        31. The method of any of Claims 1-30, wherein the patient is identified as a
patient suffering from or at risk of binge eating disorder or compulsive eating disorder by
administration of a Binge Eating Scale checklist.
        32. A method for treating binge or compulsive eating, comprising:
                 identifying a patient suffering from or at risk of suffering from binge or
        compulsive eating by administration of a binge eating scale checklist, the patient
        having a body mass index (BMI) greater than or equal to 27 kg/m 2 ; and
                 administering to the patient 16 mg sustained release naltrexone and 180
        mg sustained release bupropion twice daily for a treatment period of more than 4
        weeks.
        33. The use of bupropion or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and
naltrexone or a pharmaceutically        acceptable salt thereof in the preparation of a
medicament for treating binge or compulsive eating as described in any of Claims 1-32.
        34. A pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of binge or compulsive eating
as described in any of Claims 1-32 comprising bupropion or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof and naltrexone or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
                                              -25-

