                                      ABSTRACT
A device for estimating a mechanical property of a sample is disclosed herein. The
device may include a chamber configured to hold the sample; a transmitter configured
to transmit a plurality of waveforms, including at least one forcing waveform; and a
transducer assembly operatively connected to the transmitter and configured to
transform the transmit waveforms into ultrasound waveforms. The transducer
assembly can also transmit and receive ultrasound waveforms into and out of the
chamber, as well as transform at least two received ultrasound waveforms into
received electrical waveforms. The device also includes a data processor that can
receive the received electrical waveforms; estimate a difference in the received
electrical waveforms that results at least partially from movement of the sample; and
estimate a mechanical property of the sample by comparing at least one feature of the
estimated difference to at least one predicted feature, wherein the at least one
predicted feature is based on a model of an effect of the chamber wall. Finally, the
device can also include a controller configured to control the timing of the ultrasound
transmitter and data processor.

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
            Determining Mechanical Properties via Ultrasound-Induced Resonance
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] The present application claims priority to and hereby incorporates by reference in its
entirety U.S. Patent Application No. 14/660,700 entitled "Determining Mechanical Properties
via Ultrasound-Induced Resonance" and filed on March 17, 2015.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0002] Hemostasis is the physiological process that stops bleeding. Functional hemostasis
requires the balanced engagement of plasma coagulation factors to initiate clotting, adequate
fibrinogen to form the fibrin mesh, platelets to modulate factor function and to mechanically
stiffen the fibrin mesh, and fibrinolytic enzymes to dissolve the clot when its useful life is over.
Perturbation of any of these subsystems can disrupt hemostasis; either by impeding the cessation
bleeding or by initiating clotting when it is unneeded. Disruptions of hemostasis contribute
significantly to morbidity and mortality in patients suffering from heart disease, stroke, traumatic
injury, cancer, and sepsis.
[0003] While hemostatic dysfunction impacts a broad range of medical conditions, it has been
studied with particular intensity in cardiac surgery. Cardiac bypass surgery is associated with
significant post-operative bleeding. This is caused by a combination of platelet damage by the
bypass pump, factor and fibrinogen consumption associated with surgical trauma, and the
occasional presence of residual anti-coagulant. A number of strategies are currently used to
manage this dysfunction. The crudest strategy is a "shotgun therapy" approach; transfusing
varying combinations of fresh frozen plasma, cryoprecipitate or fibrinogen concentrate, and
platelet concentrate. This approach is often successful in controlling bleeding, however
unnecessary transfusion carries a significant financial cost and increases patient morbidity and
mortality. Recognition of the risks associated with excessive transfusion have led to
increasingly specific and detailed guidelines to manage transfusion. These guidelines call for
transfusion to be guided by point-of-care tests that assess hemostatic function in a timely and
accurate manner.
                                                   1

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
[0004] A broad range of approaches have been proposed to fill the need for point-of-care
hemostasis testing. These technologies can be separated into broad categories: clot-time assays,
platelet-only tests, and viscoelastic tests. Clot-time assays can be implemented in simple
systems, however a rapidly forming clot may not be a physiologically useful clot, so clot-time
results may have limited clinical value. Moreover, clot-time assays generally operate on plasma,
rather than whole blood, and therefore typically neglect the important interactions between
plasma coagulation factors and platelets. Platelet-only tests provide useful information, but are
also limited in that they neglect interactions between platelets and plasma coagulation factors.
Viscoelastic tests have been shown to provide highly useful data. However, their operational
complexity has traditionally limited their point-of-care utility. None of the currently available
point-of-care tests adequately assess hemostatic function in a timely and accurate manner. A
fast, accurate test is therefore still needed to fill this gap.
[0005] Other systems, methods, features and/or advantages will be or may become apparent to
one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It
is intended that all such additional systems, methods, features and/or advantages be included
within this description and be protected by the accompanying claims.
                                              SUMMARY
[0006] A device for estimating a mechanical property of a sample is disclosed herein. The
device may include a chamber configured to hold the sample; a transmitter configured to
transmit a plurality of waveforms, including at least one forcing waveform; and a transducer
assembly operatively connected to the transmitter and configured to transform the transmit
waveforms into ultrasound waveforms. The transducer assembly can also transmit and receive
ultrasound waveforms into and out of the chamber, as well as transform at least two received
ultrasound waveforms into received electrical waveforms. The device also includes a data
processor that can receive the received electrical waveforms; estimate a difference in the
received electrical waveforms that results at least partially from movement of the sample; and
                                                      2

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
estimate a mechanical property of the sample by comparing at least one feature of the estimated
difference to at least one predicted feature, wherein the at least one predicted feature is based on
a model of an effect of the chamber wall. Finally, the device can also include a controller
configured to control the timing of the ultrasound transmitter and data processor.
[0007] In one implementation, the at least one predicted feature predicted by the data processor
is based on a model of an aspect of the induced movement that is caused at least in part by a
boundary effect of the chamber wall.
[0008] In another implementation, the at least one predicted feature predicted by the data
processor is based on a model of an aspect of the induced movement that is caused at least in
part by resonance within the chamber.
[0009] In yet another implementation, the at least one predicted feature predicted by the data
processor is based on a model of an aspect of the induced movement that is caused at least in
part by reflection of an induced shear wave from the chamber wall.
[0010] Also disclosed is a device for estimating a mechanical property of a sample. The device
may include a chamber configured to hold the sample; a transmitter configured to transmit a
plurality of waveforms, including at least one forcing waveform; and a transducer assembly
operatively connected to the transmitter and configured to transform the transmit waveforms into
ultrasound waveforms. The transducer assembly can also transmit and receive ultrasound
waveforms into and out of the chamber, as well as transform at least two received ultrasound
waveforms into received electrical waveforms. The device also includes a data processor that
can receive the received electrical waveforms; estimate a difference in the received electrical
waveforms that results at least partially from resonance of the sample; and characterize a
mechanical property of the sample from at least one feature of the estimated difference. Finally,
the device can also include a controller configured to control the timing of the ultrasound
transmitter and data processor.
[0011] Additional embodiments, implementations, and/or examples are provided below as well.
                                                  3

WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012] The following detailed description will be better understood when read in conjunction
with the appended drawings, in which there is shown one or more of the multiple embodiments
of the present disclosure. It should be understood, however, that the various embodiments of the
present disclosure are not limited to the precise arrangements and instrumentalities shown in the
drawings.
[0013] Fig. 1 is an example schematic of a device for measuring a mechanical property of a
sample.
[0014] Fig. 2 is an example schematic of the signal processing and data acquisition process
using the implementation of Fig. 1.
[0015]   Fig. 3 shows representative experimental time-displacement curves from clotting human
blood.
[0016] Fig. 4 shows representative time-modulus and time-viscosity curves estimated utilizing a
computer model.
[0017] Fig. 5 shows an example contour plot of correlations between experimental time
displacement data and computer models across a range of moduli and viscosities.
[0018] Fig. 6 shows a representative time-modulus curves estimated utilizing a computer model
with the viscosity held constant.
[0019] Fig. 7 shows an example of the use of correlation masking to remove outlying modulus
estimates.
[0020] Fig. 8 depicts an example embodiment of the present disclosure wherein a focusing
element is associated with the transducer assembly
[0021] Fig. 9 depicts an example embodiment of the present disclosure wherein an acoustic
couplant is interposed between the transducer assembly and the test chamber.
                                                  4

 WO 2016/149480                                                             PCT/US2016/022844
[0022] Fig. 10 depicts an example embodiment of the present disclosure wherein a focusing
element is associated with the transducer assembly and an acoustic couplant is interposed
between the transducer assembly and the test chamber.
[0023] Fig. 11 depicts an example embodiment of the present disclosure wherein a focusing
element is associated with the test chamber and an acoustic couplant is interposed between the
transducer assembly and the test chamber.
[0024] Fig. 12 depicts an example embodiment of the present disclosure incorporating
numerous additional elements.
[0025] Fig. 13 depicts an example embodiment of the present disclosure wherein the transducer
assembly comprises two separate transducer elements.
[0026] Fig. 14 depicts an embodiment of the present disclosure wherein the transducer assembly
comprises two separate transducer elements with one dedicated to waveform transmission and
the other dedicated to waveform reception.
[0027] Fig. 15 shows the computational grid used for the Finite Difference Time Domain
method described in the present disclosure.
[0028] Fig. 16 shows a representative time-modulus curve estimated utilizing an analytical
model.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0029] Assessing hemostatic function in a timely and accurate manner may be accomplished by
measuring mechanical properties of a blood sample as it clots. For example, the shear modulus
of a blood sample may be measured over time during the process of coagulation. Throughout
this application, "shear modulus" is referred to as "modulus" interchangeably. The terms "stiff'
and "stiffness" are likewise indicative of modulus.
[0030] In embodiments described in the current disclosure, a forcing ultrasound waveform is
applied to a sample within a test chamber. This forcing waveform applies acoustic radiation
force to the sample, thus inducing motion. This motion is impacted by the presence of the test
                                                  5

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
chamber walls. Ultrasound sensing pulses are applied to the sample and differences in their
echoes provide information about movement of the sample. Such differences may include phase
changes or time shifts, either of which can be related to displacement. Finally, the features of
these differences, such as the period of oscillation of sample motion, are compared to analytical
or computational models to estimate mechanical properties of the sample.
[0031] Embodiments described in this disclosure may comprise elements shown in Fig. 1. A
transmitter 112 emits electrical waveforms including at least one forcing waveform. These
electrical waveforms are converted by transducer assembly 114 into ultrasound waveforms. The
forcing waveform induces sample motion within test chamber 116. Returned ultrasound echoes
are converted to electrical waveforms by transducer assembly 114. These electrical waveforms
are analyzed by data processor 118 to estimate sample mechanical properties. The details of
implementation of this and other embodiments may be understood through the detailed
description that follows. The timing of transmission, reception, and data processing are
controlled by the controller 110.
[0032] The present disclosure makes use of the phenomena of ultrasound radiation force, which
may sometimes be referred to as acoustic radiation force. Ultrasound radiation force is a body
force that acts in the same direction as the direction of propagation of the ultrasound wave. It is
the result of a transfer of momentum that occurs as the travelling ultrasound wave is absorbed or
reflected. Ultrasound radiation force is localized to the ultrasound beam; with the force
magnitude proportional to the intensity of the ultrasound beam. Thus a focused ultrasound beam
may be used to apply a localized acoustic radiation force field. In the present disclosure the
applied radiation force field is generally smaller than the test chamber to which it is applied. The
sample motion induced by the radiation force field will initially be localized to the region of the
force field. Over time however the displacement field will propagate outward from the region of
force application.
                                                   6

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
[0033] In embodiments described in the current disclosure, ultrasound radiation force is used to
generate a shear wave within a blood sample. A shear wave is a mechanical wave in which the
direction of particle displacement is perpendicular to the direction of wave motion. The shear
wave of the present disclosure may be generated by directing an ultrasonic waveform of
sufficient magnitude into the sample via a "forcing waveform." The forcing waveform carries
sufficient energy so that its absorption and reflection within the test sample generates acoustic
radiation force. Acoustic radiation force is induced along the direction of ultrasound wave
propagation and can be considered a body force acting upon some volume of the medium
constrained by the dimensions of the ultrasound beam.
[0034] The induced shear wave will travel within the test chamber, reflecting from one or more
of the walls. In some embodiments a single reflected shear wave may be detected and its arrival
time at the ultrasound sensing beam may form the basis for estimating the modulus of the
sample. For some combinations of chamber geometry and sample mechanical properties, it may
not be possible to detect a reflected shear wave. For example the viscosity of the sample may be
so high that the shear wave, while generated, has no easily discernable features and therefore no
shear wave reflection from the wall can be readily measured. Nonetheless the sample motion
resulting from acoustic radiation force will exhibit disturbances that result from the interaction of
an induced shear wave with the chamber wall. The characteristics of this sample motion may
form the basis for estimating the mechanical properties of the sample, even when the shear wave
itself is not clearly resolved in the induced sample motion. In yet other cases the shear wave
may reflect repeatedly within the chamber, generating a resonance that can form the basis for
estimating the modulus of the sample.
[0035] Throughout this specification the terms test chamber, resonant chamber, resonance
chamber, and chamber are used interchangeably with no loss in generality.
                                                  7

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
[0036] In the present disclosure the terms forcing waveform and forcing pulse will be used
interchangeably with no loss in generality. Likewise the terms sensing pulse and sensing
waveform will be used interchangeably with no loss in generality.
[0037] The motion of the induced shear wave, including its perturbations associated with
reflections and/or reverberation, can be estimated by considering differences in the echoes from
sensing waveforms. Said differences are not intended to imply a subtraction; instead, the term is
used in a broad sense to mean any aspects that are not identical between waveforms. The term
sensing waveform is used here to indicate an ultrasound waveform which has a magnitude too
small to generate significant acoustic radiation force, and therefore too small to induce
significant shear waves, but large enough to return ultrasound echoes for difference analysis. In
an alternative embodiment the same waveform(s) may be used for forcing and sensing.
[0038] Shear modulus can be related to other measures of mechanical properties such as
Young's modulus and Lame constants. Thus while the present disclosure is focused on the
measurement of shear modulus, these estimates can be transformed to provide estimates of other
mechanical properties.
[0039] In one embodiment, a device is provided for emitting a forcing waveform and a plurality
of sensing waveforms into a sample within a resonant chamber, and processing echoes returned
from the sensing waveforms. The device discerns mechanical characteristics of the sample from
the characteristics of the resonance. For example, such a device may include at least a
controller, a transmitter, a transducer assembly, a resonant chamber, and a data processor.
[0040] Fig. 1 shows a high-level block diagram of an example embodiment of the present
disclosure. In this embodiment, a controller 110 is provided to manage the timing of various
aspects of the testing procedure. For example, controller 110 may control the timing of
transmission data digitization and data processing. Controller 110 may be a general purpose
computer. In other embodiments, controller 110 may be a dedicated controller such as, for
example, a field programmable gate array (FPGA). In one particular embodiment, a Xilinx
                                                  8

 WO 2016/149480                                                             PCT/US2016/022844
Spartan 6 FPGA may be utilized. Alternatively an embedded processor or DSP chip might be
used as the controller.
[0041] Controller 110 may control the timing of, among other things, a transmitter 112.
Transmitter 112 may be used to transmit voltage waveforms. The controller 110 can direct the
transmitter 112 to connect and disconnect from power supplies to the transducer assembly at
specific time intervals. In one example embodiment, the transmitter 112 may transmit desired
waveforms comprising positive, negative, and/or neutral voltages with specific time intervals for
the transmissions between voltage levels. In other embodiments the transmitter may be capable
of multiple voltage amplitude levels, enabling generation of a broader range of waveform
shapes. In one embodiment, transmitter 112 comprises a Supertex MD1810 level shifter to
control Supertex TC6320 MOSFETs to switch +/- 1OV supplies, and Supertex TC2320 to
clamp transmit waveforms to ground. Various hardware devices, firmware, and/or software, or
combinations thereof, may be used as well. The input signals to transmitter 112 may originate
from the controller 110.
[0042] In the embodiment of Fig. 1, transmitter 112 transmits voltage waveforms to the
transducer assembly 114. In this embodiment, the transducer assembly 114 is an ultrasound
transducer. The transducer assembly 114 can convert transmit voltage waveforms into
ultrasound waveforms and converts ultrasound echoes into receive voltage waveforms. In one
example embodiment, the ultrasound transducer is a single-element composite piston transducer.
However, other types of ultrasound transducers may be used, and may include hardware,
firmware, and/or software, or combinations thereof In alternative implementations the
transducer may include a piezoelectric material (including single crystal materials), CMUT
(capacitive micro-machined ultrasound transducer), a relaxor-ferroelectric transducer, thermo
acoustic sources, or voice coils, other transducer technologies. In another alternative
embodiment ultrasound transmission is performed using a thermoacoustic method where rapid
heating causes thermal expansion that in turn generates an ultrasound wave. Transducer
                                                  9

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
assembly 114 may further comprise an active transducer element-for example, a piezoelectric
material-mounted to a single acoustic matching layer, which in turn may be mounted to a
polymeric standoff. In one embodiment the transducer is air backed to enhance electro
mechanical efficiency. In one example embodiment, the transducer element of transducer
assembly 114 is broad bandwidth and has sensitivity between approximately 5 and 12 MHz. In
some embodiments, a series matching inductor is placed between the transducer assembly 114
and the transmitter 112 to tune out an imaginary component of the electrical impedance of the
transducer. Other electrical circuits may prove advantageous for matching the electrical
impedance of the transmitter, transducer, and receiver.
[0043] In an example embodiment, a test sample is placed within chamber 116 for testing. The
transducer assembly 114 directs ultrasound energy through the test sample held within chamber
116. In some embodiments, chamber 116 is axisymmetric and has a major axis that is co-linear
with the propagation vector of the ultrasound beam. In an alternative embodiment only a portion
of the chamber 116 is axisymmetric, while other portions have arbitrary geometries as needed to
support filling of the sample and to avoid blocking the ultrasound beam.
[0044] In some embodiments chamber 116 is fabricated from a material that is substantially
stiffer (higher in shear modulus) than the material being characterized. Thus a resonant chamber
fabricated of polystyrene, or similarly rigid material, can be effectively considered infinitely
rigid for the purposes of analyzing blood clots. For example, chamber 116 may be several
thousand, several hundred thousand, or even over a million times stiffer than the sample within
chamber 116. For example, blood clots typically have a shear modulus of a few kiloPascals.
Thermoplastics such as polystyrene have a shear modulus of roughly one gigaPascal.
[0045] In some embodiments, a "forcing waveform" and a "sensing waveform" may be directed
into the test sample in chamber 116. The forcing waveform may be an ultrasonic waveform
capable of inducing shear waves in the sample via acoustic radiation force, while the sensing
waveform may be a lower energy waveform used to sense various aspects of the sample at a
                                                 10

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
given point in time. These waveforms and their uses are described in more detail below. The
modulus of the sample can be estimated by analyzing the resonance of ultrasound-induced shear
waves within chamber 116.
[0046] In some embodiments the data processor 118 incorporates a number of functions to
enable analysis of received echoes. For example, data processor 118 may incorporate a receiver
and a digitizer that together provide digital data to a general purpose processor for data analysis.
In this embodiment the receiver of the data processor 118 receives and amplifies electrical
signals corresponding to ultrasound echoes within chamber 116. The receiver would be
operatively coupled to the transducer in this embodiment. The receiver may also include a
protection circuit that prevents high-voltage waveforms from overwhelming the one or more
amplifiers of the receiver. An example of such a protection circuit is the Supertex MD0100. In
some embodiments the input to the protection circuit is tied to the transducer while the output of
the protection circuit is coupled to a low-noise amplifier and then to a variable-gain amplifier.
Filtering stages also may be interposed to eliminate out-of-band noise. For example, in one
embodiment the Analog Devices AD8334 LNA/VGA combination is utilized to amplify the
incoming signal.
[0047] In one embodiment the receiver may be operatively coupled to a digitizer. Specifically
the output of the amplifier might form the input to a digitizer. The digitizer transforms an analog
signal to a digital signal. In one example embodiment, a 12-bit analog-digital converter (ADC)
such as the Analog Devices AD9238 is utilized.
[0048] In the example embodiment of Fig. 1, receive echo data may be stored in a memory
within data processor 118. Such a memory could capture digital output from the digitizer. Data
processor 118 may include an FPGA, a general purpose processor, a dedicated DSP processor, or
some combination of these items. For example, data processor 118 may include an FPGA
storage unit in which echo data is temporarily buffered before it is transferred to an embedded
processor. In that case the data is again buffered in the embedded processor before being
                                                  11

 WO 2016/149480                                                             PCT/US2016/022844
transferred to an embedded PC for processing and modulus estimation. In an example
embodiment, the data processor 118 estimates modulus through two distinct and interconnected
steps. First, data processor 118 analyzes incoming echo signals to determine the displacement
between the echoes returned from various sensing waveforms. In the second step the data
processor 118 compares features of the measured displacements to the predicted features of
either analytical or computer model predictions for the given chamber 116 geometry to estimate
the modulus of the sample within the chamber 116.
[0049] Fig. 2 depicts an example of an estimation process, including a data acquisition step 202,
a motion estimation step 204, and a modulus estimation step 206. Fig. 2 also shows a plot 224
of modulus over time, including data point 222, the estimation of which is represented in more
detail in panels 202, 204, and 206. The data acquisition panel 202 shows the data acquisition
process. A series of ultrasound transmission are transmitted into the test chamber. The series of
ultrasound waveforms are: (1) sensing pulse 210, (2) forcing pulse 211, (3) sensing pulse 212,
(4) sensing pulse 213, (5) sensing pulse 214, and (6) sensing pulse 215. These waveforms are
merely examples and the disclosure is not limited to the particular number or order of waveforms
shown.
[0050] In some example embodiments, the sensing pulses are designed to impart minimal
acoustic radiation force on the sample while returning echoes with high signal-to-noise ratio and
bandwidth. Sensing pulse 210 may be used to establish a baseline echo for the sample before
application of a forcing waveform. The forcing pulse 211, on the other hand, is designed to
impart a substantial acoustic radiation force field. Following forcing pulse 211, a series of low
intensity sensing pulses (212-215) are transmitted into the sample. The timing between the
various sensing pulses is controlled to maintain precision in downstream signal processing steps.
[0051] In an alternate embodiment all of the waveforms are of sufficient energy to impart
acoustic radiation force. In this particular embodiment these forcing waveforms also act
effectively as sensing waveforms. The received echoes from any or all of these waveforms may
                                                  12

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
be processed to estimate modulus using the methods and devices of the present disclosure. The
present disclosure is further anticipated to incorporate arbitrary combinations of forcing
waveforms, sensing waveforms, and combined use forcing/sensing waveforms.
[0052] Undisturbed coagulation of a healthy blood sample leads to the formation of a stiff clot.
If however that same sample is mechanically stressed during coagulation then the forming fibrin
mesh may be damaged, leading to a soft clot. Any measurement of mechanical properties during
coagulation that applies significant mechanical thus has the potential to corrupt the evolution of
the mechanical properties being measured. This biasing effect of viscoelastic clot measurement
is particularly likely to corrupt the measurement of soft clots formed from the blood of patients
with dysfunctional hemostasis. This problem has been previously addressed by the adaptive
force measurement method disclosed in Patent Application PCT/US2010/049342. This
application discloses a coagulation measurement system wherein the magnitude of the applied
force is adjusted to constrain the magnitude of the induced displacement. In times where the clot
is soft, the applied force is reduced to avoid damaging the clot. In times where the clot is stiff,
the applied force is increased to maximize the sensitivity of the mechanical property estimation.
This adaptive force approach is equally applicable to the present disclosure and combination
with it is anticipated.
[0053] In one example embodiment, sensing waveforms are transmitted at an interval of
approximately 122 microseconds, providing a sampling frequency of about 8.2 kHz. Other
interrogation frequencies may be used as well. Generally speaking, the interrogation of stiffer
materials requires higher interrogation frequency because the shear wave resonance has a high
frequency (assuming a constant resonant chamber geometry). More accurate results may be
achieved in softer materials by using a lower interrogation frequency so as to minimize the
accumulated radiation force from the sensing waveforms and so as to enable the acquisition of
data over a longer period of time for a fixed data memory size. With respect to blood samples,
suitable interrogation frequencies range from about 2 kHz to about 16 kHz, for example.
                                                  13

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
[0054] A grouping of a single forcing waveform and a plurality of sensing waveforms may be
referred to as an "ensemble." In one embodiment, an ensemble comprises about 500 sensing
waveforms. In other embodiments, however, the ensemble may comprise between about 16 and
about 2048 sensing waveforms. Other ensemble sizes may be used for measuring materials
having higher or lower stiffnesses. One ensemble is processed to yield a single modulus
estimate.
[0055] In some embodiments, the acquisition time for a single ensemble is approximately 62
milliseconds. However, the acquisition time may be lower or higher. For example, accurate
results may be obtained by using an acquisition time of approximately 20-30 milliseconds for a
single ensemble. Even lower acquisition times, such as 10 milliseconds, for example, may be
used as well. A longer ensemble time period enables accurate measurement of a broader range
of moduli. In some embodiments, ensembles may be repeated at a rate of approximately 16 Hz
to measure rapidly changing moduli. In other embodiments the physical process under
examination (coagulation) is slow enough that ensembles may be repeated at a rate of only once
every six seconds and still provide data that accurately reflects the changes in modulus.
[0056] In some embodiments it may be advantageous to limit the range of mechanical properties
being considered in a given ensemble based upon previously measured mechanical properties for
the same test chamber. During coagulation, for example, it is expected that the shear modulus
will vary smoothly with time, assuming that measurements are made at a small enough time
interval. If, for example, the modulus is 1.0 kPa in a given measurement, then it may be
advantageous to limit the range of possible moduli in successive measurements to a range
between 0.5 kPa and 2.0 kPa. Even in cases where the modulus range is not explicitly limited, it
may be advantageous to smooth modulus estimates across time by either linear filtering
(convolution with a filter kernel) or non-linear filtering methods such as median filtering or
combinations of both.
                                                  14

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
[0057] Each of the transmitted waveforms travels from left to right along an hourglass beam
shape as shown by the series of vertical lines within the test chambers of panel 202 of Fig. 2.
The sample is at rest when interrogated by sensing waveform 210. The sample remains at rest
when impacted by the forcing waveform 211 because of the inertia of the sample material.
Immediately after the forcing waveform passes however, the acoustic radiation force imparted
by the forcing waveform 211 causes the sample material along the beam to move in the direction
of propagation of the forcing waveform 211. In the embodiment of Fig. 2, this motion is first
visible when the sample is interrogated by sensing waveform 212. This movement is shown in
the figure as a shaded region lying under the ultrasound beam.
[0058] As sensing waveform 213 is transmitted, the radiation-force-induced displacement is
beginning to propagate outward from the acoustic beam towards the test chamber wall. This
displacement propagates predominantly in the form of a shear wave. Over time, the shear wave
reflects from the wall, travels back through the acoustic beam, and reflects from the wall again.
This repeated reflection represents resonance of the shear wave within the test chamber.
Reverberation eventually settles down as the viscous losses within the sample and other losses
damp out the propagating shear wave. Note that for some combinations of modulus, viscosity,
and resonant chamber velocity the induced shear wave may reach the chamber wall so quickly
that an observer would not see it propagate. Rather it would seem that the entire contents
chamber were oscillating in time. Although qualitatively different than a propagating shear
wave, this standing wave pattern is nonetheless an example of resonance and is anticipated by
the current disclosure. In yet other combinations of modulus, viscosity, and chamber geometry,
the excited shear wave might be quite discrete in time and space, and the shear wave reflected
from the wall is a waveform that is discrete in space and time. Measurement of modulus by
examining the arrival times of such a distinct pulse is one possible embodiment of the present
disclosure. In this embodiment the shear wave echo reflection arrival time is an aspect of the
                                                 15

 WO 2016/149480                                                             PCT/US2016/022844
differences in the received waveforms that is compared to the same aspect (shear wave reflection
arrival time) of the modeled differences.
[0059] In yet other implementations, the chamber 116 is so small relative to the shear
wavelength that no true shear wave can be generated. In this case it can be said that resonance
does not exist for this combination of modulus and chamber geometry. It is still true however
that the induced displacement is impacted by the presence of the chamber wall. This boundary
effect will act to alter the induced displacement, compared to what would be expected if the
same force were applied to an infinite or semi-infinite medium. This variation may take the
form of a change in the time dependent displacement from that predicted for a semi-infinite
medium. This variation is an aspect of the estimated time-displacement that is caused at least in
part by a boundary effect of the chamber wall. In such a case the time course of the induced
displacement can be considered in combination with the chamber geometry to estimate the
sample modulus. In one embodiment this modulus estimation is performed by comparing the
measured displacements to those predicted by a series of computer models, as described in more
detail below.
[0060] The presence or absence of resonance may be determined by analyzing the differences in
received echoes in general or by analyzing estimated time-displacements specifically. In one
embodiment the time-displacement curve is analyzed for the presence of a trough (negative peak
displacement). If such trough is found then it may be concluded that resonance is occurring.
Should no trough (negative peak) in time displacement be observed then it may be concluded
that resonance is not present. This conclusion about the presence or absence of resonance may be
represented as a parameter indicating the strength of resonance. In this simple example the
parameter would hold a value of 1 when a time-displacement trough is detected and a value of 0
when no such trough is detected. This concept can be extended further by considering whether a
displacement peak is detected in conjunction with a displacement trough, as this would indicate
even stronger resonance. An alternative parameter indicating the strength of resonance would be
                                                  16

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
the mean value of the time-displacement curve. When resonance is absent, the time
displacement curve will be primarily unipolar and will therefore have a high mean value.
Alternatively, when resonance is strong, the time-displacement curve will exhibit a strong
oscillation around zero and will therefore have a low mean value. An alternative parameter
indicating strength of resonance is the ratio of the mean displacement to the peak displacement
over the measurement ensemble. A high value of this parameter indicates weak resonance. Other
parameters can be computed to indicate the strength of resonance.
[0061] Each of the sensing waveforms returns an echo from inhomogeneities (acoustic
scatterers) within the sample. In the case of whole blood, these inhomogeneities are primarily
red blood cells. The present disclosure can also be used to measure homogenous materials, such
as blood plasma, by the addition of polystyrene microspheres, or other agents, which act as
acoustic scatterers.
[0062] As acoustic scatterers move away from the ultrasound transducer, the acoustic path
length between the transducer and the scatterers lengthens. Assuming that the speed of sound is
constant, this causes the echoes to arrive at a later time when the targets are pushed farther away
by the resonating shear waves. Likewise, the echoes will arrive earlier in cases where the
scatterers have moved closer to the ultrasound transducer. These changes in echo arrival time
are differences between these waveforms that are indicative of underlying movement of the
sample. If the speed of ultrasound propagation (speed of sound c) is known in the sample, or can
be measured, then the measured time delays can be related to the underlying physical
displacement through the well known relation dx = c dt / 2.
[0063] In the preceding expression dt is the measured time shift between echoes, c is the speed
of sound (ultrasound, not shear waves) and dx is the estimated relative displacement. Note
however that the present disclosure does not require knowledge of the speed of sound as the
displacement characteristics used to estimate modulus do not necessarily include absolute
displacements. In one embodiment of the present disclosure, phase shifts are measured between
                                                   17

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
the various sensing waveform echoes. These phase shifts are differences in the received
waveforms that result from the underlying movement of the sample. For a resonating sample
these phase shifts will exhibit the feature of oscillation with a frequency related to the modulus
of the sample. The observed feature (oscillation frequency) can be compared to a predicted
feature (oscillation frequency predicted by theory) to estimate the modulus of the sample.
[0064] It is well known that the speed of sound in blood changes as it clots. This evolving
speed of sound has little or no effect upon the current measurement, however, for at least two
reasons. First, as stated above, many of the algorithms used to relate measured displacement to
modulus do not need to know the true displacement; relative displacements are all that are
needed. Second, the speed of sound change occurs over a matter of minutes, while the
measurement ensembles described herein occur over a matter of milliseconds. Thus the slowly
evolving speed of sound has an imperceptible impact on the time-delay estimates from any
single ensemble.
[0065] The echo data from the ensemble is processed to find differences in the received
waveforms that are indicative of motion of targets along the ultrasound beam. One process of
analyzing these waveform differences is known as "motion estimation," a process shown
conceptually in the motion estimation panel 204 of Fig. 2. Each echo produced by, for example,
sensing pulses 212-215, is compared to the reference echo produced by sensing pulse 210 in
order to find the time delay between them. By using a measured or assumed speed of sound, the
time delays between various echoes can be converted to displacements. All of the displacement
estimates from a single ensemble are combined to form a time-displacement curve 220, as shown
vertically on the right of motion estimation panel 204. This time-displacement curve is a feature
indicative of the modulus of the sample. Note that the example time-displacement curve depicts
oscillations associated with shear-wave resonance and a decay of those oscillations associated
with the chamber geometry and the intrinsic viscous damping of the medium.
                                                  18

 WO 2016/149480                                                           PCT/US2016/022844
[0066] The motion estimation algorithm used to calculate differences in the receive waveforms
may be an algorithm known in the art. Example algorithms include those presented by Kasai (C.
Kasai, K. Namekawa, A. Koyano, and R. Omoto, "Real-Time Two-Dimensional Blood Flow
Imaging Using an Autocorrelation Technique" IEEE Trans. Sonics Ultras., vol. SU-32, pp. 458
464, 1985), Loupas (Loupas et al., "Experimental evaluation of velocity and power estimation
for ultrasound blood flow imaging, by means of a two-dimensional autocorrelation approach",
IEEE Trans Ultrason Ferroelect Freq Contr. 42:689-699, 1995), and Walker (U.S. Patent No.
8,306,293).
[0067] Alternatively, waveform differences may be analyzed to estimate motion by finding the
time-delay corresponding to the peak of the correlation function between different various
received echo signals. Direct measurement of time delays can be extended to the measurement
of the delay envelope of the waveform after demodulation. As another alternative, relative phase
shifts between various received echo waveforms are differences representative of motion in the
sample. These phase shifts can be computed digitally by comparing the complex Hilbert
Transform of the waveforms associated with different transmissions. As yet another alternative,
the receive waveforms can be sampled digitally at an interval approximately W of a period apart
so as to approximate In-phase and Quadrature (IQ) signals. This so-called Direct Sampled In
phase and Quadrature (DSIQ) sampling scheme has previously been used to simplify ultrasound
beamformer design (US20070016022 Al) and can be applied to calculate waveform differences
representative of motion in the present disclosure. In another embodiment the received
ultrasound waveforms are processed via quadrature demodulation to yield a complex waveform
with an angle between its real and imaginary components indicating the phase of the received
signal. This phase is a difference indicative of motion of the sample.
[0068] Fig. 3 shows experimental time-displacement curves obtained by the present disclosure.
Waveform differences were analyzed to yield displacement estimates over a series of 300
ensembles. Each ensemble consisted of a single forcing waveform and 512 sensing waveforms
                                                  19

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
transmitted at a pulse repetition frequency of 8,206 Hz. Larger displacements and lower
frequency oscillations are seen earlier in the clotting process. The first time-displacement curve
302 shows no oscillation, while oscillations become clearer as the clot formed higher modulus.
A simple algorithm based upon only the frequency of mechanical resonance would fail with the
data of curve 302. This curve corresponds to a modulus for which this chamber geometry cannot
support resonance. The present disclosure, however, can estimate the modulus even when no
clear oscillation is visible, such as for time-displacement curve 302. Modulus in this case can be
estimated by comparing the measured displacements (features) to computer or analytical models
of the dynamic sample motion induced by the forcing waveform (predicted features).
[0069] The modulus estimation panel 206 of Fig. 2 depicts an example process of estimating the
shear modulus of the sample from the experimentally determined time-displacement curve 220.
The shape of time-displacement curve 220 is a feature of the estimated displacements that can, in
turn, be described as waveform differences. In one example embodiment, a computer model has
been used to generate a set of reference models, where each reference model is the predicted
time-displacement curve for a given shear modulus and viscosity for the specific test-chamber
geometry. These reference models incorporate predicted features associated with the modulus of
the computer model. Such a computer model may make use of the Finite Difference Time
Domain method, as described below. Alternatively finite element or boundary element
computational models might be used. The processor searches through a library of reference
models (predicted features) to find the one that most closely matches the experimentally
measured time-displacement curve 220 (feature). In this embodiment the library of reference
models can be formed offline using a Finite Difference Time-Domain (FDTD) model, as
discussed below. Alternatively the reference models may be computed using a finite element or
boundary element model. The reference models (predicted features) are shown in modulus
estimation panel 206 as gray curves that each correspond to a different shear modulus. Each
reference model of modulus estimation panel 206 shows the time-displacement curve 220
                                                   20

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
(features) overlaid in black. In this particular example embodiment, the reference model for 3
kPa shear modulus most closely matches the time-displacement curve 220. The modulus and
viscosity used to form this reference model are the estimate of the modulus and viscosity of the
sample. In other embodiments, the computer model calculates a range of models corresponding
to potential modulus and viscosities for a given time-displacement curve immediately after the
time-displacement curve is generated. However, this dynamic modeling approach may be
excessively computationally burdensome relative to searching through predefined reference
models. Improvements in computer power or reductions in algorithm complexity will enable
dynamic computation of reference models. Such an approach would allow more precise
estimation of modulus and/or viscosity. Such an approach could also be coupled with a coarsely
sampled (in the modulus dimension) library of reference models to trade-off between
computational complexity and storage requirements.
[0070] Note that the term "analytical model" may refer to a something as simple as an
expression that relates resonant frequency to modulus, or as complex as a full time-displacement
waveform predicted by an analytical expression. In cases where a full time-displacement
waveform is used as a model it may be advantageous to evaluate that analytical expression and
build a set of reference models, analogous to the approach described above for computational
models.
[0071] In an alternative embodiment, no explicit reference curves are used to estimate modulus.
Rather a feature of the time displacement curve, such as its period of oscillation, is computed
and used with the period of oscillation predicted by an analytical model (predicted feature) to
estimate the modulus. An example analytical model is derived below. That model shows that
the resonant frequency (inverse of period) is related to the resonant chamber radius and material
modulus and density through the following expression:
              2.4048 v'
[0072] f   =   2rRJ
                                                  21

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
[0073] This expression can be rearranged so that the modulus can be estimated directly from the
measured period:
[0074] G = p (        2
[0075] where T is the period of resonance. Thus the period of oscillation is a feature that can be
compared to a predicated feature (the period of oscillation of an analytical model) to estimate
modulus. Likewise, the period of oscillation is an aspect of induced movement that is caused at
least in part by resonance within the chamber. Note that in the case of an analytical model it is
not necessary to test a series of model predictions, rather the step of comparing predicted and
experimental features can be accomplished through a simple mathematical expression. Such an
approach is anticipated by the current disclosure. Alternatively resonant frequency could be used
with the above expression to estimate modulus.
[0076] In some applications it may not be necessary to estimate a mechanical property. Rather,
it may prove useful to instead characterize a mechanical property. In this context we intend the
concept "estimating a mechanical property" to refer to making a quantified estimate of a well
known mechanical property such as shear modulus. Alternatively we consider the concept of
"characterizing a mechanical property" to refer to determining something about the mechanical
property, but not necessarily putting a unit on it or even determining it in a directly proportional
way. For example, estimating the resonant frequency of a sample characterizes a mechanical
property of that sample without taking the extra step of referencing to the true modulus. Rather
than producing a graph of modulus versus time, it might be useful to produce a graph of
  resonant frequency" versus time. While "resonant frequency" is not identical to modulus, nor
even proportional, tracking resonant frequency would allow one to obtain significant information
about coagulation. We thus recognize the utility of such characterization without the need to
connect it to a fundamental mechanical property such as shear modulus.
[0077] The period of resonance is a feature that can be used as a basis for estimating mechanical
properties or characterizing mechanical properties. Given that period is simply the inverse of
                                                  22

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
frequency, estimation of period is equivalent to estimation of frequency, and vice versa. The
period of resonance can be estimated in a variety of ways from differences between received
waveforms. For the purpose of this discussion we will restrict our consideration of differences
between received waveforms to motion estimates made from received waveforms, although
other approaches are envisioned particularly including phase changes estimated from the
received waveforms. We begin by considering a time-displacement curve, like one of those
depicted in Fig. 3. The period of oscillation of such a curve may be estimated by taking a Fast
Fourier Transform (FFT) and estimating the frequency at which the energy is at its peak.
Alternatively one could subtract the mean from the time-displacement curve and then utilize
Burg's method for autoregressive power spectral density estimation. The frequency of peak
energy corresponds to the frequency of oscillation. The ROOT-MUSIC algorithm can also be
applied to estimate the frequency of oscillation. Other spectral estimation techniques could
similarly be employed.
[0078] The frequency of oscillation may also be estimated through other means. Specific
algorithms are known for estimating the frequency of a decaying sinusoid. One such algorithm is
described in the paper "Parameter estimation of exponentially damped sinusoids using a higher
order correlation-based approach," by D.P Ruiz et. al. and published in IEEE Transactions on
Signal Processing, vo. 43, no. 11, November 1995. A review of algorithms dedicated to this
problem is presented in the paper "Frequency and damping estimation methods - an overview"
by T.P. Zielinski and K. Duda and published in Metrology and Measurement Systems, vol. 18,
no. 4, 2011. Other approaches are also available.
[0079] The period of oscillation may be estimated directly from the time-displacement signal. In
one approach, the time of the first trough in displacement (maximum negative displacement) is
used as an estimate of M of the oscillation period. Since the time-displacement signal is
discretely sampled in time but the period can take on continuous values, it is advantageous to
apply interpolation. In one embodiment the time-displacement signal is directly interpolated to a
                                                  23

 WO 2016/149480                                                                     PCT/US2016/022844
higher sampling frequency prior to locating the time of the trough. Such interpolation may be
performed by resampling via FFT, piecewise cubic spline interpolation, or other known methods.
Alternatively the discrete sample at which the trough occurs can be identified and the true
location of the trough found via an analytical interpolation scheme. In one embodiment a
parabola is fit to the discrete trough value and its two nearest neighbors, and the time of
minimum of that parabola is used as the estimated time of the trough. Higher order functions
including piecewise cubic splines can alternatively be used for such interpolation.
[0080] The period of displacement oscillation may be estimated through other means as well. In
an alternative approach the locations of the first trough and the second peak are determined and
the time interval between them is the estimate of M of the oscillation frequency. Note that the use
of the second peak is generally preferred as the timing of the first peak is distorted by the
application of the forcing pulse. This peak-finding strategy can be extended further by estimating
the locations of multiple positive and negative peaks and combining those locations to estimate
the period. In one embodiment the first and second troughs, and the second and third peaks are
identified. Consider the time of the first trough as tni, the time of the second peak as tp2, the time
of the second trough as     tn2, and the time of the third peak as as tp3. In this case the period can be
related to each of the peaks and troughs as follows:
[0081]   tni  = T/2 + ei
[0082]   tp2  = T + e2
[0083]   tn2  = 3T/2 + e3
[0084]   tp3  = 2T + e4
[0085] where ei, e2, e3, and e4 represent error terms resulting from noise in the peak/trough
location estimates. The period of oscillation may be measured directly from the estimated times
of these peaks and troughs through the following expression:
[0086] T     =  (2ti +   tp2 + 2/3tn2 + 1/2tp 3 )/4
                                                      24

 WO 2016/149480                                                                PCT/US2016/022844
[0087] This expression has the advantage of reducing the weighting of later peaks and troughs
that will have lower relative amplitude and therefore will be more susceptible to noise.
Alternatively the period may be estimated from the same peak and trough times through the
following expression:
[0088] T = (tn 2 - t, 1 + t,, - t,2)/2
[0089] The present disclosure anticipates other variants of this approach including more or
fewer peaks and troughs and alternative expressions for estimating the period from the times of
the peaks and troughs.
[0090] The period of oscillation may alternatively be estimated from locations of the zero
crossings of the time-displacement curves. While the peak to trough time interval is 1/2 period,
the zero-crossing interval is approximately half as long at  14 period. The above described
methods of combining peak and trough times to estimate oscillation period may be readily
modified to combine zero-crossing times to estimate oscillation period. Numerous algorithms for
estimating the time of a zero crossing are known. One approach fits a line to the data points near
the zero crossing and the finds the time at which the fit line equals zero. Higher order approaches
using polynomials or splines are also envisioned.
[0091] In some embodiments, the shear-modulus estimate for each ensemble is plotted as a
single point of a curve, as shown in Fig. 2. In this particular embodiment, the example
calculations represented by panels 202, 204, and 206 result in data point 222. Repeated
calculations, for a plurality of ensembles over a period of time, result in the shear-modulus curve
224.
[0092] In one example embodiment, the similarity between reference models and the
experimentally determined time-displacement curve 220 is quantified using a normalized
correlation coefficient. A normalized correlation coefficient between two different signals a[n]
and b[n] is given by the following equation:
                                                 25

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
[0093]   pab --    __at]-u)(__i]-_)
                    i'(aWj]-u)2 ZN,(bi]-b)2
[0094] where    a =      Y_l1 a [i] and b   _     [i]
[0095] Fig. 4 depicts the results of modulus estimation by the present disclosure as applied to
clotting human blood. A small amount of kaolin was added to a sample of human whole blood.
The top panel shows the modulus estimated over time, with the reagent (kaolin) added to the
blood sample at time zero. The middle panel depicts the estimated viscosity over time. The
lowest panel depicts the normalized correlation between the experimental time-displacement
curves and those predicted by the Finite Difference Time Domain model described below. The
model used for this figure considered moduli between 10 and 10,000 Pa and viscosities between
0.025 and 0.8 Pa s. A total of 16,032 combinations of modulus and viscosity were modeled. All
models assumed a density of 1.06 g/cm 3. The geometry of our experimental test chamber was
modeled on a spatial grid sampled at 100 um in each dimension. The resonant portion of the test
chamber consisted of a cylindrical region 4.2mm in diameter and approximately 1.5mm in length
with a hemispherical cap the same radius as the cylinder. The first 18 time-modulus estimates
were removed from the experimental data and the models prior to computing the correlation
between them. A best-fit line was removed from both the experimental time-displacements and
computer model time-displacement predictions prior to computing the correlation. The
erroneous modulus estimates in the early stages of clot formation occur because the model fails
to allow for the low modulus of liquid blood or blood in the very earliest stages of clot
formation.
[0096] The results shown in Fig. 4 are notable, in part, because of the relatively high correlation
between the experimentally determined time-displacement curves and the predictions of the
FDTD model. We see from the bottom panel of Fig. 4 that for a well formed clot the correlation
between the FDTD model and the experimentally measured time-displacement curves is well
over 0.95. This provides a strong indication that the computation model is an appropriate one for
                                                 26

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
these experimental conditions. The correlation between the model and the experimental data is
much worse for the liquid blood phase. This is not surprising given that the softest model in that
case corresponds to a modulus of 10 Pa, which is far from the liquid state, which has a modulus
of zero. Similar correlation tests were performed with time-displacement waveforms formed by
numerical evaluation of the analytical model derived below. Although not shown, these results
also correlated well with experiment; confirming the utility of the analytical model. The
correlations for the analytical model were somewhat worse that the FDTD model. This is likely
because the analytical model assumes an infinitely long cylinder, while the FDTD assumes a
capped cylinder like the real experimental test chamber.
[0097] The correlation between an experimental time-displacement curve and a range of
reference models can be plotted as a two-dimensional function of modulus and viscosity, as
shown in the contour plot of Fig. 5. This figure depicts the normalized correlation between the
experimental time-displacement curves and those predicted by the Finite Difference Time
Domain computational model described below. The model used for this figure considered
moduli between 10 and 10,000 Pa and viscosities between 0.025 and 0.8 Pa s. A best-fit line was
removed from both the experimental time-displacements and computer model time-displacement
predictions prior to computing the correlation. The peak correlation lies within the smallest
ellipse labeled 0.95 in this figure. The location of the peak corresponds to the estimated
modulus and viscosity for a particular example ensemble. The smallest ellipse (highest
correlation) is oblong, spread across a large range of viscosities and smaller range of moduli.
Small amounts of noise may cause successive estimates to wander around the peak correlation,
although it will likely stay confined to the high correlation contour. The shape of the 0.95
correlation contour indicates that the estimates of viscosity may include significant variability, as
evidenced by the breadth of the contour in the viscosity dimension. The variability of modulus
estimates will be relatively smaller as a result of the narrower contour in this dimension.
However, the correlation function is not separable in the viscosity and modulus dimensions.
                                                  27

 WO 2016/149480                                                                    PCT/US2016/022844
Rather, an error that shifts the viscosity must also shift the modulus. This observation suggests
that, in cases where the viscosity can be assumed to hold a certain value, we can fix that
parameter and obtain more precise and repeatable estimates of shear modulus. This approach of
fixing the viscosity has the added bonus of limiting what was a two-dimensional search
(modulus and viscosity) to a one-dimensional search (modulus), which improves computational
efficiency.
[0098] Fig. 6 depicts the result of modulus estimation with the viscosity held constant. The top
panel shows the modulus estimates. The middle panel shows the viscosity, which was fixed at a
value of 0.25 Pa s. The bottom panel shows the correlation between the model and the
experimental time-displacements. The model used for these estimates was in many ways
identical to that used to obtain the results of Fig. 4. There were two notable differences. First,
the modulus varied between 0.01 and 10,000 Pa. Second, the viscosity was held constant at a
value of 0.25 Pa s. A total of 1,167 models were created. The results of Fig. 6 show a
significant improvement in modulus estimates before a firm clot has formed. Although the
correlations for these early estimates are fairly low, they are significantly higher than they were
for Fig. 4. This result is encouraging as it shows that adjusting the range of the model to
incorporate lower moduli yields a closer estimate of mechanical properties when the modulus of
the sample is lower. This is another confirmation of the validity of the computational model. The
results of Fig. 6 required less than 1 / 1 0 th the computation of the results in Fig. 4, with no loss in
the quality of the result.
[0099] The computational and analytical models described in the present disclosure have a
number of adjustable parameters that might be estimated or alternatively held constant,
depending upon the specific sample and chamber geometry. In the preceding example it was
show to be advantageous to hold the sample viscosity and density constant and evaluate the
model for a range of shear moduli. In human blood it is reasonable to hold density at a constant
value as the variation among individuals is quite low. While viscosity can vary somewhat more,
                                                      28

 WO 2016/149480                                                                PCT/US2016/022844
the advantage of limiting that degree of freedom in estimation may outweigh any absolute error
in viscosity. For different samples it may be advantageous to hold modulus constant while
allowing either viscosity or density to vary. In yet other embodiments the chamber geometry
may not be known precisely and models may allow variation of certain aspects of the chamber
geometry among models.
[00100] In some embodiments, the value of the normalized correlation coefficient can be used
to reject modulus and viscosity estimates that are unreliable and are unlikely to be correct. For
example, the normalized correlation coefficient can be used to reject modulus and viscosity
estimates where a bubble in the acoustic path corrupts the underlying ultrasound echoes.
Processing this corrupted echo data will yield a time-displacement curve that is also excessively
noisy. While a typical correlation between the best reference model and the experimental time
displacement curve may be 0.98, the correlation for the corrupted time-displacement data might
fall to 0.40, for example. This significant reduction in correlation would clearly indicate that
such a measurement is not reliable and should be rejected. This process of rejecting estimates
with low correlation may be referred to as "masking." The appropriate threshold value can be
determined empirically from experimental trials, however a reasonable threshold may be around
0.9.
[00101] The masking of shear-modulus estimates according to their peak correlation with the
reference models is particularly valuable for cleaning up noisy estimates formed before the blood
has begun to coagulate. For liquid blood, the time-displacement estimates show very large
displacements that are often irregular. The irregular nature of these curves makes it possible for
them to fit almost any reference model, although this fit is merely coincidence rather than an
actual match. Moreover, the reference model may not actually be applicable until coagulation
begins forming a solid "clot." For example a model based upon a viscoelastic solid is
inappropriate for a liquid sample. In these cases, while there is a fit, the quality of match and
therefore correlation coefficient is quite low. By simply removing modulus estimates for which
                                                  29

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
the peak correlation is below a reasonable threshold, it is straightforward to remove erroneous
modulus estimates associated with liquid blood.
[00102] The concept of "correlation masking" was applied to the experimental results of Fig. 6,
with the results shown in Fig. 7. The top panel shows the raw modulus estimates; including two
data points at the beginning of the measurement. These data points are clearly in error. The
central panel shows the correlation between the experimental data and the best-fit models. We
select a correlation threshold of 0.6, which was selected to remove clearly erroneous data points.
The lowest panel of Fig. 7 shows the remaining modulus estimates after the removal of the
moduli with correlation below 0.6. The two erroneous modulus estimates have been eliminated.
[00103] The correlation between a model and experimental time-displacement estimates may
also be used for other purposes. In one alternative embodiment, multiple different models are
formed with variations in both mechanical properties and in underlying assumptions. For
example, one family of models could be developed in which the sample is assumed to be a
viscoelastic solid, while a second family of models assumes a liquid sample. Within each family
the mechanical properties are allowed to vary. In this embodiment the data processor would test
the correlation between each model in both of the two families against the estimated time
displacement curve. The specific model with the best correlation to the time-displacement curve
would indicate both the value of the mechanical properties and the type of material that best
describes the sample. In this specific example the material type would be either a viscoelastic
solid or a liquid.
[00104] The library of reference models necessarily contains a finite number of reference
models. In some embodiments, the modulus estimate may fall between reference models. This
limitation can be overcome with little computational cost by interpolating the correlation
coefficient around the measured peak to locate the shear modulus corresponding to the best
correlation, whether a reference model was computed for that modulus or not. In the simplest
case, where the viscosity is held constant and the modulus alone is allowed to vary, the modulus
                                                 30

 WO 2016/149480                                                             PCT/US2016/022844
estimate can be determined by locating the peak of a parabola fit through the correlation of the
best fit reference model and the correlations of its two nearest neighbors. Other interpolation
schemes, including spline based and higher order polynomials, may yield even more precise
results. Further, the interpolation described here can be applied to two-dimensional (modulus
viscosity) estimates by using a two-dimensional interpolation scheme. The experimental results
presented here all made use of interpolation to form modulus estimates.
[00105] The experimentally determined time-displacement curve may be corrupted by a variety
of physical and electronic effects. For a finite-volume test chamber, a forcing waveform may
generate significant reverberant ultrasound echoes that may extend into the acquisition periods
of the following sensing waveforms. In one example embodiment, the impact of such
reverberation may be mitigated by designing the frequencies of the forcing waveform and the
sensing waveform to lie within different frequency bands, and then using analog or digital
filtering so suppress the reverberation associated with the forcing waveform. In an alternate
embodiment, sensing waveforms sent shortly after a forcing waveform can be removed from the
time-displacement estimation curve prior to searching the reference models for a best fit. This
approach of rejecting erroneous time-displacement estimates can either be performed statically
(e.g., the first 6 estimates from every time-displacement curve are assumed erroneous) or
performed dynamically (e.g., a quality metric is computed to for the time-displacement estimates
and estimates with a quality metric below a certain threshold are discarded).
[00106] Fig. 16 depicts an experimentally determined time-modulus curve using an analytical
expression to relate the measured period of displacement oscillation to the shear modulus. This
approach used equation 58 to relate resonant frequency to modulus. The period of resonance was
estimated from the time difference between the first trough in displacement to the second peak of
displacement. This approach yields a robust estimate of clot modulus, although it is challenged
by the early liquid phase before coagulation begins. As described elsewhere in this disclosure,
such erroneous estimates could be masked depending upon a parameter indicative of the strength
                                                  31

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
of resonance. This analytical estimate of modulus is quantitatively different from the estimated
based on the computational model. This is likely due to the different geometric assumptions of
the two approaches. The analytical model assumes an infinitely long cylinder while the
computational model assumes a capped cylinder like the experimental test chamber.
[00107] The present disclosure anticipates estimating mechanical properties based upon at least
three different but interrelated modes of mechanical behavior. In the first mode a forcing pulse
is applied to the chamber and has the potential to excite a mechanical resonance of the sample,
which is bound by the test chamber. In one embodiment, the frequency of resonance is the basis
for estimating the shear modulus of the sample. Note however that for some combinations of
modulus, viscosity, density, and chamber geometry, it may not be possible to induce true
resonance. For example, if the sample viscosity is high relative to the modulus then the system
will be under-damped and no resonance will occur. As the clot stiffens, however, the modulus
will increase while the viscosity remains relatively constant. Thus as the clot stiffens, an
example device disclosed herein will be able to detect the initiation of resonance. Such a
transition might offer a useful and simple indicator of clot formation.
[00108] In another embodiment, the viscosity of the sample is low enough relative to the
modulus that a well-defined (in space and time) shear wave can be initiated within the sample.
In cases where the shear wave is constrained in time and space its reflection from the chamber
walls will be clear and easily detected from the differences between echoes received from
scatterers within the sample. Knowledge of the chamber geometry (shear wave path length)
enables direct estimation of shear wave velocity (and therefore modulus) from the arrival time of
shear wave echoes from the chamber wall. As with the prior example of resonance, there are
certain combinations of mechanical properties and geometries for which clearly measurable
shear waves cannot be generated. As with the resonance example, a transition between states
where clearly detectable shear waves cannot be generated to a state where they can be might
                                                 32

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
offer a good proxy for the transition from liquid blood to a formed clot. The timing of such a
transition might therefore present a useful measure of clot formation time.
[00109] In a third embodiment, neither clear resonance nor propagating shear waves are readily
measured. That does not, however, preclude estimation of mechanical properties within the test
chamber. For any sample within a finite chamber, the walls of the chamber will change the
apparent mechanical impedance of the sample. In this context mechanical impedance describes
the relationship between and applied force and the resultant displacement. A very soft sample
within a very large test chamber will exhibit a mechanical impedance much like that sample
would in an infinitely large test chamber. Alternatively, a stiff sample within a small test
chamber will exhibit a mechanical impedance quite different from that observed in a larger test
chamber. In the context of dynamic force application, the magnitude of the sample viscosity will
further impact the perceived mechanical impedance. The present disclosure anticipates
comparing models of the sample within test chamber to experimental measurements to estimate
the mechanical properties of the sample. In this embodiment the impact of the wall (boundary
effect) is explicitly considered. Since the impact of the boundary (wall) for a given chamber
geometry varies depending upon the mechanical properties of the sample, a transformation from
the boundary effect being insignificant to it being significant can be a proxy for the transition
from a liquid blood sample to a formed clot.
[00110] In another embodiment, shown in Fig. 8, the transducer assembly 114 of Fig. 1
incorporates a focusing element 802. The addition of a focusing element increases the intensity
of the applied forcing waveform and increases the strength of the received echoes. In addition
the use of the focusing element 802 enables use of a larger transducer element within transducer
assembly 114. The substitution of such a device is wholly contemplated herein by Applicant.
[00111] In an example embodiment, shown in Fig. 9, a separable test chamber 116 is provided
with a couplant 902. In many commercial applications, the separable test chamber will be
particularly useful as a consumable component. Throughout this application we refer to the
                                                 33

 WO 2016/149480                                                            PCT/US2016/022844
separable test chamber as "consumable," while recognizing that it could be a reusable
component. In the context of this embodiment, we describe an acoustic path comprising of a
transducer assembly 114 (instrument), a couplant 902 (consumable), and test chamber 116
(consumable). Additionally, a focusing element can be interposed between the transducer
assembly and couplant, or between the couplant and test chamber. In one alternative
embodiment (shown in Fig. 10) the focusing element 1004 is combined with the instrument, and
a couplant 1002 is associated with either the instrument or the consumable. The acoustic path
from the transducer assembly outward is: transducer assembly 114 (instrument), focusing
element 1004 (instrument), couplant 1002 (instrument or consumable), and test chamber 116
(consumable). In yet another alternative embodiment the focusing element is incorporated with
the consumable, as shown in Fig. 11. In this embodiment the couplant 1102 can be associated
with either the instrument or the consumable, while the focusing element 1104 is associated with
the consumable.
[00112] In the example embodiment of Fig. 11, the ultrasound waveform travels from couplant
1102 to focusing element 1104. Focusing element 1104 may be shaped such that it refracts
incoming ultrasound energy and focuses it within the resonant test chamber as desired. In some
embodiments focusing unit 1104 is a thermoplastic, although other suitable materials may be
used instead of, or in addition to, a thermoplastic. In one possible embodiment the couplant
1102 may comprise a liquid such as water. In another possible embodiment the couplant 1102
may comprise a water-based or oil-based gel such as that commonly used for ultrasound
imaging.
[00113] Focusing element 1104 focuses ultrasound energy into chamber 116. Chamber 116
may also be described interchangeably as a resonant chamber, resonance chamber, or testing
chamber. The focusing element 1104 is designed so that its curvature and speed of sound act to
refract the transmitted ultrasound waves into a focused beam. The focusing element 1104 may
be designed to form a sharp or broadly focused beam. A sharp focus will tend to impart a higher
                                                  34

 WO 2016/149480                                                             PCT/US2016/022844
magnitude of radiation force, however the sharp focus may make the overall system more
sensitive to minor errors in aligning the ultrasound beam and the resonant chamber 116.
Alternative the focusing element 1104 may be designed to more broadly focus the ultrasound
beam. This may generate a lower magnitude of radiation force, but will make the system less
sensitive to errors in the alignment of the ultrasound beam with the resonant chamber 116.
[00114] Fig. 12 depicts an alternative embodiment comprising a durable instrument and a
consumable test cartridge. The controller 110, transmitter 112, transducer assembly 114, data
processor 118, transducer alignment feature 1210, and clamping mechanism 1214 are
incorporated in the instrument. The test chamber 116, couplant 1202, focusing element 1204,
chamber alignment feature 1212, thermal control unit 1220, and surface modification 1230 are
incorporated in the consumable.
[00115] In the embodiment of Fig. 12 the consumable component is brought into acoustic
contact with the instrument by the action of a clamping mechanism 1214. In one embodiment the
clamping mechanism is lead screw actuated by a stepper motor. Other embodiments may
include, for example, a mechanically actuated lever or some other mechanical mechanism. In
cases where the couplant 1202 is a fairly firm material, the clamping mechanism 1214 might
require significant force to eliminate any air gaps and form good acoustic contact. In one
embodiment the clamping mechanism 1214 applies about 110 Newtons of force for clamping a
single resonant chamber 116. In an alternative embodiment, where a single consumable consists
of multiple resonant chambers, a single clamping mechanism may be shared across channels. In
this case the clamping mechanism may be required to apply more than 110 Newtons of force.
For example, in an embodiment having four chambers, the clamping mechanism may apply
about 440 Newtons of force.
[00116] In the embodiment of Fig. 12 alignment features 1210 and 1212 are associated with the
transducer assembly 114 and the focusing component 1204. The alignment features 1210 and
1212 fit together so that the acoustic beam is precisely generated and accurately placed within
                                                  35

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
the test chamber 116. In one embodiment the alignment feature 1210 incorporates four different
components. Two of these are pins that each have an axis parallel with the ultrasound beam.
One of these pins may fit into a hole as a component of transducer alignment feature 1212. The
other pin may fit a slot as a component of chamber alignment feature 1212. In addition to the
pin/hole and pin/slot alignment features, another embodiment may include at least one hard stops
to control the degree of compression of the couplant 1202. In one embodiment the hard stops
consist of rails above and below the couplant 1202 and associated with the focusing component
1204 that come into contact with the transducer assembly 114. Together these rails may force
the focusing assembly 1204 to be parallel with the face of the transducer assembly 114.
[00117] In the embodiment of Fig. 12, the test chamber 116 is in thermal contact with a thermal
control unit 1220. Since coagulation is a temperature-dependent process, the use of a thermal
control unit serves to improve repeatability and increase the rate of coagulation so that clinicians
receive results more rapidly. In one embodiment the temperature control unit is an aluminum
block with an embedded thermistor and an electric heater. The thermistor acts as an input to a
PID Controller (Proportional-Integral-Derivative Controller). In another embodiment the
thermal control unit makes use of a Peltier device to enable both heating and cooling of the
sample relative to its incoming temperature.
[00118] In the embodiment of Fig. 12, the interior surface of the test chamber 116 is formed or
modified so as to have a surface 1230 conducive to clot adhesion. Such a treatment may be
needed so that as the blood clots and platelets contract, the clot cannot pull away from the
chamber wall. This may be advantageous because, should the clot pull away from chamber wall,
the assumed properties upon which a computational or analytic model is built can be wrong. For
example, instead of a uniform material extending all throughout the test chamber 116, a chamber
with a retracted clot will include a serum layer filling a gap between the contracted clot and the
resonant chamber wall. Such a gap will alter the resonant geometry of the resonant chamber,
thereby biasing modulus measurements under these conditions. Even if clot retraction only
                                                 36

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
opens a tiny gap between the clot and the chamber wall, the boundary conditions upon which our
models are predicated will no longer be appropriate and therefore estimation of mechanical
properties will be corrupted. Even when we restrict ourselves to characterizing the mechanical
properties (not computing absolute properties) the characterization will be corrupted by the
altered boundary conditions in the chamber. These errors can be eliminated by forming a
chamber with a rough inner surface to which the clot can stay firmly adhered. Such a surface
can be formed by patterning the injection mold used to form the chamber, or by roughening the
interior surface after manufacture through a mechanism like bead blasting. Alternatively the
interior surface can undergo plasma or corona treatment, which can both roughen the surface and
modify its chemical properties to enhance clot adhesion. In another alternative embodiment the
inner surface can be treated by adhering a protein like fibronectin, to which the clot can adhere.
[00119] Another alternative embodiment of the present disclosure is shown in Fig. 13. In this
embodiment the transducer assembly 114 comprises a focusing element 802, and two separate
transducer elements 1302 and 1304. The first transducer element 1302 is connected to the
transmitter but not the data processor and is intended to transmit forcing waveforms. The second
transducer element 1304 is connected to both the transmitter and the data processor and is
intended to transmit sensing waveforms and receive their echoes. The configuration of Fig. 13
may prove advantageous because, for example, the ultrasound beam shape most desirable for
applying forcing waveforms may be different than that which is optimal for sensing.
Furthermore, as the forcing waveforms are generally higher in energy than the sensing
waveforms, this configuration likely reduces the requirements on protection circuitry associated
with the data processor and improves sensitivity.
[00120] Another alternative embodiment of the present disclosure is shown in Fig. 14. In this
embodiment the transducer assembly 114 comprises a focusing element 802, and two separate
transducer elements 1402 and 1404. The first transducer element 1402 is connected to the
transmitter but not the data processor and is intended solely for waveform transmission. The
                                                  37

 WO 2016/149480                                                              PCT/US2016/022844
second transducer element 1404 is connected to the data processor and is intended solely for
echo reception. The configuration of Fig. 14 may prove advantageous because it will eliminate
the need for protection circuitry associated with the data processor.
[00121] One advantage of the present disclosure over the prior art is a significant reduction in
required blood volume for testing. For example, at least one prior-art method required a 60 ml
sample of blood per test. In various embodiments described herein, only about 330 microliters
per test chamber is required. Larger or smaller volumes of blood may be used as well,
depending on the testing conditions. This reduced test chamber volume allows a patient to
provide less blood while also benefiting from multiple tests in parallel within a single cartridge.
In some embodiments, a single cartridge may comprise multiple test chambers that can be tested
in parallel. In alternative embodiments in which the focusing element is incorporated in the
transducer assembly the total blood volume may be reduced even further to as few as tens of
microliters per test chamber.
[00122] In one embodiment, described above, the sensing waveform is designed so as to impart
no significant acoustic radiation force upon the sample. In other embodiments, however, the
sensing waveform may impart a small amount of radiation force. In these embodiments the
measured displacements will include a superposition of resonant time-displacement curves. The
dominant component of this superposition will be the resonant time-displacement curve resulting
from the application of the forcing waveform. However, added to this curve will be smaller
delayed responses from each of the sensing waveforms. In cases where the displacements due to
the applied sensing waveforms have a significant effect, the ideal response can be reconstructed
by deconvolving the inputs. The impact of small amounts of radiation force from the sensing
waveforms might also be mitigated by lowering the rate of sensing waveform transmission.
[00123] The present disclosure has numerous applications beyond the measurement of
coagulation in human blood. For example, in the veterinary sciences and in biomedical research
it may be useful to quantify the process of blood clotting samples from non-human animals.
                                                 38

 WO 2016/149480                                                             PCT/US2016/022844
[00124] In the food industry there is strong interest in quantifying the mechanical properties of
foods and food additive. In that domain it would be straightforward to fill a resonant chamber
with the food to be tested. One might find it valuable to apply the present disclosure to monitor
the aging of cheese or other dynamic processes. In one example, the present disclosure could be
applied to measure aging of a cheese wheel. Large cheese wheels can be over 50 inches in
diameter. Such a cheese wheel could be considered a resonant chamber in the context of the
present disclosure. With dimensions approximately 300 times larger than the resonant test
chamber considered in the detailed examples above, it may prove advantageous to scale the
operating frequency similarly. This suggests that measurement of such a large object could
require the use of lower frequency acoustic energy; possibly extending into the audible regime.
The chamber of this application would be formed by the boundary of the cheese wheel itself
with the surrounding air forming a free boundary, in contrast to the fixed boundary discussed
above for blood.
[00125] In the art of tissue engineering there is an unmet need for measuring the mechanical
changes that occur as cells grow, mature, and build extracellular matrices within certain tissue
engineered constructs. The present disclosure could be applied to that problem by growing cells
within a resonant chamber. Alternatively the matrix upon which cells grow could be placed in a
nutritive broth so the geometry of the matrix itself forms the resonant geometry. In this case the
analytical or computational model would assume a free boundary, rather than the infinitely stiff
boundary considered elsewhere in this application.
[00126] Example - Finite Difference Time Domain Model
[00127] The example model described below is a derivation of a Finite Difference Time
Domain model for radiation force induced shear waves in cylindrical geometry. This formulation
can be used to model time-displacements in the resonant chamber.
[00128] Our analysis begins with a velocity-stress formulation of the shear wave equation. Note
that while this formulation considers velocity, results computed with this approach can be
                                                 39

 WO 2016/149480                                                             PCT/US2016/022844
numerically integrated to yield displacements, so as to be consistent with experimental results.
We expand upon traditional formulations by including a term to account for viscous losses.
[00129] p           (- , t) = V        , t) + F     t)                                           (1)
              a                       a\t                          T
[00130]       aU (     t)  =  (y+       [(7V(x,
                                            -      t)) + (vi(X, t))T                             (2)
[00131] We expand equation 1 by expressing it in cylindrical coordinates and expanding the
vector velocity into its constituent components.
[00132] L--'+ r ae + 1-Z+
          Sar                     az     r (urr - uee) + F, = p av
                                                                 at                              (3)
[00133]       ar + r ae + az + ra         2e    + F = pav                                        (4)
[00134]                                  1rz + Fz = p av
             ar + r ae + az + rrat                                                               (5)
[00135] Further consideration of our problem allows significant simplification. First, we
recognize that the only body force is the applied ultrasound radiation force. Assuming that force
is entirely in the z direction, we can set Fe = Fr = 0. Assuming that our test chamber and
applied radiation force are entirely axisymmetric, we can set all dependencies upon 0 equal to
zero. Applying these simplifications to equations 3-5 yields:
[00136] a~z= az           a2r(6)
                      pPat2
[00137] 0 = 0                                                                                    (7)
            ao-P                        a2UZ
[00138]           +      urz + Fz =                                                              (8)
[00139] We follow a similar strategy to expand equation 2, to yield:
[00140]       at =      1'++    ati' aza(aV+                                                     (9)
[00141] Collecting equations 6-9 we have:
[00142] p                                                                                      (10)
[00143] p at =v-ar        6 + 1r rzr + Fz                                                      (1
[00144]            = y + 7 a (p ' + p                                                          (12)
                                                         40

 WO 2016/149480                                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
[00145] Equations 10-12 form a system of partial differential equations that can be solved
together to predict how radiation force will induce shear waves and how those induced shear
waves will interact. This system of equations is particularly amenable to a finite difference
solution using a staggered grid approach, similar to the Yee method. The finite difference
representation of equations 10-12 are:
[00146]      Vt      = V        +          rz                                                                  (13)
[00147]     VZ     +        z         +}  +         k+rz+,k+       rz]k+j       + 2(j+1)Ar      r,k+}
  1017      VziJktz                                    i                                              (14)
Orz+1,k)        + Fz++,k+i)
                                ,kj         z               rj)            ]     ++
1001481     ar.z'i=rz               ,+ LL k      i
                                                 j+                           v    t      Vrjk)       +
                    ~~
         Az~~~ -V V...-V.+                 Az jk      A1    i+t
                                                              k)                           tA                  (5
    fljk~               =j~ '],/Cj i41jk~        >+       Vr'      Ar]kt ztkt22V7,k+K          k+!
[00149] The mathematical formulation described above can be implemented numerically using
a staggered grid approach as shown in Fig. 15. Each computational cycle consists of two steps.
In the first step the velocity components are computed using the finite difference equations
above. In the next step the shear is computed using the finite difference equations.
[00150] Example - Analytical Modeling of Impulse-Induced Resonance
[00151] The example analytical model derived below represents the mechanical model of blood
clot displacement in a cylindrical resonant chamber. The model qualitatively captures the
observed behaviors in real-world experiments.
[00152] Our analysis is based upon the well-known Cauchy-Navier Equation for linear
elasticity. We utilize a formulation incorporating viscoelastic material properties.
1001531            + y + (ip + s)d.) V(V. -(,t))                 + ((P +,           .)v-(,t))
p-U(i, t) =F(xt)                                                                                               (16)
                                                            41

 WO 2016/149480                                                                    PCT/US2016/022844
[00154] In our initial experiments we use a cylindrical test volume with radiation force applied
to a smaller radius cylindrical volume with the same central axis as the test volume. This
geometry ensures that there will be no variation in parameters with angle. We also assume an
infinite length, which further simplifies the problem by eliminating variation in range. We apply
these simplifications to the components of (16):
[00155] V(V - U(-, t)) = V 1           (rUr) +         u   + duz)                                     (17)
[00156] Because of cylindrical symmetry and an infinite length we can assume that all
derivatives with respect to  #5and z    are equal to zero. Thus (17) becomes:
[00157] V(V - U(-, t)) = V (!d (rur)                                                                  (18)
[00158] We now take the gradient to yield:
[00159] V(V - U(-, t)) = [               (rur) +              uP +        (uz)
                          ))      j.(r)+
                                    r                dr r dip       drJd zJ
                             1 dz                  1 dz         1 d z
                         + rdpdr           rur)+-          u+r    d4pdz uz) #
+             r                  u)
                              dur)     +     2(uz) Z(19)
    dz (r dr           dz  rdrdz                                                                      (19)
[00160] We again appreciate that all derivatives with respect to        #  and z are equal to zero. Thus
(19) can be simplified to:
[00161] V(V -U(-, t)) = [d (1d (rUr))] i + 04 + 0Z                                                    (20)
[00162] We consider another component of (16):
[00163] Vzu(,     t) = [Vur -         2Ur r-  4Zd'P up 1PP + L 7'P - 'Vpc-
                                                                         i uP - r dr)dpr      +
 [Vzuz]2
                                                                                                      (21)
[00164] Again, we recognize that all derivatives with respect to        #  and z are equal to zero.
Furthermore, the displacement component with respect to         #  is also equal to zero. Thus (21)
simplifies to:
                                                      42

 WO 2016/149480                                                                        PCT/US2016/022844
[00165] Vzu(2, t) = [Vur - 1ur] i + 04 + [Vzuz]2                                                              (22)
[00166] We expand the Laplacians to yield:
[00167] Vzu((,    t)           (r      Ur) +     2  dUr 2 + dU      +     2 r p + 0d    + Lrdr \.drr      _ +
                                                                                                        Uz)
                              r d dr            Zd"          dz        r    J
 1     uz + d U
                                                                                                              (23)
rZ dP2z     dzZJZ
[00168] Again, we recognize that the derivatives with respect to             #Pand z  are equal to zero. Thus
(23) becomes:
                          Irdr      dr         rZrdr                        dr
1001691 Vzui(Zt)     =           r- ur) +         r r]+     04+   L       rA uz,    2                         (24)
[00170] The partial differential equation of (16) can be split into three different equations; one
for each direction. We begin by considering the result in the z direction. Note that the
displacement in the z direction is a function only of r and t as the          # and z dependencies are
eliminated by radial symmetry and the infinite length of the model:
[00171]     A+ y +    (ZI, + I,')      -. V(V -uz(r, t))) +        y( + n'        - zuz(r, t)
p d2uz(r, t) = Fz(t)                                                                                          (25)
[00172] Substituting (20) and (24) back into (25) yields:
[00173]       + y + (1      ,     )    -      +                  1       r - uz(r,        -p         uz(r, t)  =
Fz(t)                                                                                                         (26)
[00174] Expanding (26) yields:
[00175]     y +    s    -     rd       z(r, t) + duz(r t)         - p       uz(r, t) = Fz(t)                  (27)
[00176] Simplifying further yields:
[00177]        + ns     -        uz(r, t ) +     duz(r,         - pd      uz(r, t) = Fz(t)                    (28)
[00178] Note that (28) includes no dependence upon the radial displacement. Thus the potential
system of partial differential equations becomes a single partial differential equation.
                                                         43

 WO 2016/149480                                                                 PCT/US2016/022844
[00179] Oscillatory Force:
[00180] We solve equation 28 by considering a solution of the form below, in which the
displacement is oscillatory.
[00181] uz(r, t) = S(r)ejwt                                                                      (29)
[00182] We further assume that the applied force is also oscillatory.
[00183] Fz(r, t) = F(r)ejwt                                                                      (30)
[00184] Substituting (29) into (28) yields:
 00185       y                 S(r)ejt +        S(r)ej"t)) - p      dS(r)ejt = F(r)ejt           (31)
[00186] Evaluating the derivatives with respect to time yields:
1001871]   (y +jOs)      (   S(r )ejt   + I   S(r)ewt)       + pozS(r)ejwt = F(r)ej't            (32)
[00188] We set aside the ejwt term, which occurs throughout (32) to yield:
1001891    (y + jO1s)         S(r) + I     S(r)      + pozS(r) = F(r)                            (33)
[00190] To simplify notation we replace (y +       jon7js)with a general complex shear modulus of G
so that (33) becomes:
                 dld
[00191] G        S(r) + I     S(r) + pozS(r) = F(r)                                              (34)
[00192] The solution of this equation depends upon the exact form of the forcing function. One
simple form assumes a constant force F within some transmit beam radius rtx, and a force of 0
outside that radius. For this simple forcing function the solution has two domains, one inside the
radius rtx and one outside that radius. The solution is:
                   Si(r) = c1Jo(            + cz Y 0    --   r  +          for r < rtx
[00193]
                   Sz(r) = c 3JO
                                      =P~ )
                                         r  + c 4 Y)  (     r
                                                                    Pz(35)
                                                                           for r > rt,
[00194] Where Jo is the zeroth order Bessel Function of the first kind and Yo is the zerot* order
Bessel Function of the second kind. We can further simplify this solution by considering our
                                                    44

 WO 2016/149480                                                                     PCT/US2016/022844
boundary conditions. The derivative of the solution at r=O must be 0. Since Yo does not have a
finite derivative at 0 we know that c2=0. This leaves our solution as:
                 S(r)    =  c1oA(Ar) +         F            for r   rtx
[00195]                                                                                                 (36)
                 Sz(r)   =  c 3 JO (Ar) + c 4 YO (Ar)       for r > rt,
[00196] Note that to simplify notation we have replaced =                with A. We now solve for the
arbitrary constants by considering the boundary conditions and continuity conditions of the
problem. We assume that the clot is rigidly adhered to the chamber wall and therefore S2 (R) =
0, where R is the radius of the test chamber. Furthermore, the two solutions must be continuous
at their junction so that Si(rb)      = S2 (rb). Finally, the two solutions must have continuous
derivatives at their junction so that Sl'(rb)       = S2'(rb). We can express these three conditions as
shown below:
                       c3Jo(AR) + c4 Yo(AR) = 0
[00197] clJo(Arb) +              - c3 Jo(Arb) - c 4 Yo(Arb) = 0                                         (37)
              clJo'(Arb) - c3Jo'(Arb) - c4 Yo'(Arb)          = 0
[00198] Recognizing thatJo(Ar) = -AJ 1 (Ar) and YO'(Ar) = -AY 1 (Ar), and reformulating the
above expressions into a single system of linear equations yields:
                  0         JO(AR)           Y(AR)        1         0
[00199]      J(Arb)        -Jo(Ar)         -Yo(Ar)        cs = -                                        (38)
            -AJ1(Arb)      AJ1(Arb)        AY(Arb)l C4.0
[00200] This system of equations can be solved using Gaussian Elimination. We are primarily
concerned within the region of force application, where r             rtx. Thus the coefficient of greatest
interest is ci. Solving for ci yields:
[00201] c     =       F       (Jo(AR)Y1(Arb)-Y(AR)J1(Arb)                                               (39)
            1 =PJo(AR)        kYo(Arb)J1(Arb)-Jo(Arb)Y1(Arb)J
[00202] c3    =          F                  Yo(AR)J1(Arb)                                               (40)
                                 kYo(Arb)J1(Arb)-Jo(Arb)Y1(Arb)J
                         Jpn1o(AR)
[00203] c 4   =     F  (Y           Ji(A    rb)                                                         (41)
                                                         45

 WO 2016/149480                                                                   PCT/US2016/022844
[00204] The above expressions offer a rigorous solution to the analytical formulation presented
here. Unfortunately these rigorous solutions are prone to numerical instability when the operands
of the Bessel Functions become large. In these cases numerical errors in the evaluation of the
Bessel Functions are reinforced by subtraction so that the evaluation of ci, c 3, and c4 may be
effectively useless.
[00205] The numerical instabilities of (39), (40), and (41) can be mitigated by using simpler
expressions for the Bessel Functions with large operands. We use the following simplifications
for large operands.
[00206]   JO(x)  ~      cos (x-)       for largex                                                    (42)
[00207]   J(x) ~        cos (x -        for large x                                                  (43)
[00208] YO(x)    ~      sin (x-)       for largex                                                    (44)
[00209] Y1(x)    ~      sin (x -3        for large x                                                 (45)
[00210] By applying these expressions to equations 39-41, and then employing trigonometric
identities, we are able to reformulate c 1 , c 3 , and c4 so that they are numerically stable. Note that
this reformulation is only valid for large operands, so an empirically determined transition
between the two expressions must be employed.
[00211] The received signal is a weighted sum of the signals received from each of the annuli
within the receive beam. Formally the signals may be considered complex exponentials and the
resultant sum a complex exponential, which is then analyzed to determine the displacement. For
small displacements such that the first terms of the Taylor Series are reasonable approximations
to the complex exponential (cos(x) ~ 1 and (sin(x) ~ x), the complex exponential can be
ignored so that the estimated displacement will approximate the sum of displacements across the
annual.
                                                      46

 WO 2016/149480                                                                     PCT/US2016/022844
[00212] Thus the estimated displacement is weighted sum of the actual displacements over an
axisymmetric region. If the effective receive beam radius is less than the transmit beam radius
then the estimated displacement is:
[00213] d, = 27           r - s(r)dr = 2        f7xr - (ciJo(Ar)    + --    )dr                        (46)
[00214] The integral of (46) is readily computed with the knowledge that            fox r(Jo(Ar)) dr =
xJ1(ax).
A
[00215] d, = cl 2rrxJi(Arx) +           2Trr#xF                                                        (47)
[00216] If however the receive beam is larger than the transmit beam, then the solution takes on
the form:
[00217] d 2 = 2Twfxr           s 1 (r)dr + f,Txr s 2 (r)dr)                                           (48)
[00218] d 2 = 2T (f        r   (cifo(Ar)     +         dr + frx r - (C3J o(Ar) + c4 Yo(Ar))dr)         (49)
[00219] d 2 = 2T c !Ji(Artx) +               Frx   +  L3(rrxJi(Arrx)   - rtxJ1(Artx)) +     (rxYi(Arx)
rtxY1(Artx)))                                                                                          (50)
[00220] Displacement due to Oscillatory Force from a small beam:
[00221] In some cases it will be helpful to consider the oscillatory displacement in the limit of a
very small ultrasound beam. We will consider equation 36 in the limit as rtx approaches zero.
[00222] lim S1 (r) = lim         ctJo(Ar) +--            for r < rtx                                   (51)
[00223] c     =      F
            1 =pJo(AR)
                             (Jo(AR)Y1(Arb)-Y(AR)J1(Arb)
                             kYo(Arb)J1(Arb)-Jo(Arb)Y1(Arb)
                                                              )                                        (52)
[00224] We recognize that the only term dependent upon rb is the constant, ci. Thus we take the
limit of ci as rb goes to zero.
1002251 lim c1     =  lim         F        Jo(AR)Y1(Arb)-Yo(AR)J1(Arb)
          rbr0        rb0        Jo(AR)   Y0 (Arb)J1(Arb)-Jo(Arb)Y1(Arb)(
                                                       47

 WO 2016/149480                                                                PCT/US2016/022844
[00226]
     LI
          lim c      =     F
                          Pco \.
                                 -1 + J1(AR)I                                                   (54)
[00227] Thus the displacement is equal to:
[00228] rb-0
           lim Sl(r) = 7          2      1 + 0
                                       -i+2L      )JJO(Ar)
                                                      A)fo  +     for r !
                                                                           rt                   (55)
[00229] We simplify further by considering the displacement at the center, i.e. the beam
location:
[00230]     liM S 1 (O) =     F      YO(AR)                                                     (56)
          rb-0                     iJo(AR)
[00231] Where A         =
[00232] By examining this expression we recognize that the displacement will be maximum, i.e.
the system will be in resonance, when JO(AR) = 0. The first zero occurs at JO(2.4048). Thus the
resonant frequency can be solved as follows:
[00233]           R = 2.4048                                                                    (57)
[00234]   f   = 2.4048 N                                                                        (58)
                 22irR J
[00235] Constant Force:
[00236] The above analysis is valid only for oscillatory forces. In the static case, where the
force is constant over time, we must perform a separate analysis. We begin by reconsidering
equation (28), copied below for clarity
[00237] ((y +       ?7s    -)(2      uz(r, t) +   duz(r, t))) - p   uz(r, t) = F(t)             (59)
[00238] Since we are specifically interested in the static, or DC problem, we eliminate all the
derivatives with respect to t, as these must be equal to zero. We also change notation to indicate
that we are considering the static shear modulus,
[00239] Gs (       2 uz(r) + 1 duz(r)          = F(60)
                                                         48

 WO 2016/149480                                                                  PCT/US2016/022844
[00240] As with the oscillatory problem, the solution of this equation depends upon the exact
form of the forcing function. One simple form assumes a constant force F within some transmit
beam radius rtx, and a force of 0 outside that radius. For this simple forcing function the solution
has two domains, one inside the radius rtx and one outside that radius. The solution is:
          S1 (r) = Ci +                for r < rtx
1002411                    4Gs                                                                      (61)
         Sz(r) = c3 + c4 log(r)        for r > rt,
[00242] We now solve for the arbitrary constants by considering the boundary conditions and
continuity conditions of the problem. We assume that the clot is rigidly adhered to the chamber
wall and therefore S 2 (R) = 0, where R is the radius of the test chamber. Furthermore, the two
solutions must be continuous at their junction so that Sl(rb)   =  S 2 (rb). Finally, the two solutions
must have continuous derivatives at their junction so that Sl'(rb)     =  S2'(r). Rather than repeat
the analysis used for the oscillatory solution, we instead present the solution below:
[00243] c1 =     F (log (rtx)    - log(R) -                                                         (62)
[00244] c 3  =    -    log (R)                                                                      (63)
[00245] c 4 =       X                                                                               (64)
                2G,
[00246] The estimated displacement is the average of the actual displacement over the receive
beam. If the effective receive beam radius is less than the transmit beam radius then the
estimated displacement is:
[00247] di = 27       f'r - s1(r)dr =   2w  fTxr    (c 1 +G)dr                                      (65)
[00248] The integral of (47) is readily computed.
[00249] d,    =  nr/2ci +   r8G,                                                                    (66)
[00250] If however the receive beam is larger than the transmit beam, then the solution takes on
the form:
[00251] d 2 = 2T(jfxr - s 1 (r)dr + f x r s 2 (r)dr)                                                (67)
                                                  49

 WO 2016/149480                                                               PCT/US2016/022844
[00252] d 2 = 2T          +     _     +   +       log (r) -    )|1'                                 (68)
[00253] d 2 = 2T           +      + L(r     - r2) +   L  (r2log(ryx) - ro        t
   (r    - rt,)                                                                                     (69)
[00254] Viscoelastic Tissue Models:
[00255] Successful application of the presented model requires the selection of an appropriate
viscoelastic model, as implemented through the complex, frequency dependent shear modulus G.
We have explored both the Kelvin-Voigt model (Illustration 1) and the Jeffrey model
(Illustration 2). The Kelvin-Voigt model is generally well suited to modeling clot behavior
however it fails to capture certain poroelastic behaviors that may be observed in blood clots. In
this sense the Jeffrey model is sometimes superior.
[00256] Kelvin-Voigt Model              11               G= y+    jonj         Illustration 1
                                                '12
[00257] Jeffrey Model                            P       G = -&)i                       Illustration 2
[00258] While specific embodiments have been described in detail in the foregoing detailed
description and illustrated in the accompanying drawings, it will be appreciated by those skilled
in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details could be developed in light
of the overall teachings of the disclosure and the broad inventive concepts thereof. It is
understood, therefore, that the scope of the present disclosure is not limited to the particular
examples and implementations disclosed herein, but is intended to cover modifications within
the spirit and scope thereof as defined by the appended claims and any and all equivalents
thereof
                                                   50

                                              Claims
1.       A device for evaluation of hemostasis than can be used with an acoustic interrogation
system to measure at least one viscoelastic property of a test sample of blood, the device
comprising:
    a housing; and
    a plurality of test chambers, each comprising a resonant portion, wherein the plurality of test
chambers are each at least partially defined by the housing, wherein each of the plurality of test
chambers are each designed to hold a test sample of blood combined with a reagent or
combination of reagent and to be interrogated by an acoustic interrogation system to determine a
plurality of hemostatic parameters of the test samples,
    wherein each resonant portion of a test chamber of the plurality of test chambers is
configured to generate resonance from one or more acoustic pulses directed into the test chamber
by the acoustic interrogation system.
2.       The device of claim 1, wherein the each resonant portion of the test chamber comprises a
cylindrical geometry or a substantially cylindrical geometry so as to generate the resonance.
3.       The device of claim 2, wherein the cylindrical region or the substantially cylindrical
region has a diameter, and wherein the cylindrical region or a substantially cylindrical region has
a length that terminates with a cap having the same diameter.
4.       The device of claim 3, wherein the cap is hemispherical or substantially hemispherical.
                                                 51

5.      The device of claim 3, wherein the cap has an interior convex surface.
6.      The device of claim 3, wherein the cylindrical region or the substantially cylindrical
region has an axis that aligns to that of the cap.
7.      The device of claim 3, wherein the cylindrical region or the substantially cylindrical
region is about 4.2mm in diameter and about 1.5 mm in length.
8.      The device of claim 1, wherein each the plurality of test chambers comprises a non
resonant portion, the non-resonant portion having varying diameters that are larger than that of
the resonant portion.
9.      The device of claim 1, wherein the resonant portion generates an ultrasound-induced
resonance from the applied one or more acoustic pulses, wherein the applied one or more
acoustic pulses are emitted as a plurality of set of pulses, wherein each of the set of pulses are
emitted at a frequency range between about 2 kHz and about 16kHz.
10.     The device of claim 1, wherein the each resonant portion is configured to generate a
shear wave that is axisymmetric, in part, from applied acoustic radiation force exerted by the
applied one or more acoustic pulses.
11.     The device of claim 1, wherein the applied one or more acoustic pulses are directed
                                                   52

through the test sample held within test chamber, and wherein the test chamber has an
axisymmetric portion and has a major axis that is co-linear with a propagation vector of the
applied one or more acoustic pulses.
12.      The device of claim 1, wherein the test chamber is axisymmetric.
13.      The device of claim 1, comprising:
        an ultrasonic couplant to facilitate propagation of the applied one or more acoustic pulses
transmitted into and returned from at least one of said plurality of test chambers.
14.      The device of claim 1, comprising:
        a focusing element configured to focus the applied one or more acoustic pulses
transmitted into and returned from at least one of said plurality of test chambers.
15.      The device of claim 14, wherein the focusing element forms a part of a given test
chamber of the plurality of test chambers.
16.      The device of claim 14, wherein a portion of the given test chamber of the plurality of
test chamber is formed of a couplant coupled to the focusing element.
17.      The device of claim 14, wherein the focusing element has refractive shape.
18.      The device of claim 14, wherein the applied one or more acoustic pulses comprise
                                                  53

ultrasound waves, and wherein the focusing element has a curvature that focuses the ultrasound
wave directed therethough.
19.      The device of claim 1, wherein an interior surface of one or more of the plurality of test
chambers is formed or treated so as to promote adhesion of a forming blood clot.
20.      The device of claim 1, comprising:
        an alignment feature associated with alignment of the device with one or more
transducers of the acoustic interrogation system.
21.      The device of claim 20, further comprising:
        a chamber alignment feature associated with alignment of the plurality of test chambers,
wherein the transducer alignment feature and the chamber alignment feature fit together to align
the one or more transducer with the plurality of test chambers.
22.      The device of claim 1, wherein the device can be received by the acoustic interrogation
system, and wherein the acoustic interrogation system comprises a transducer assembly
configured to transmit the one or more acoustic pulses into the plurality of test chamber and to
receive reflected acoustic pulses from the plurality of test chambers.
23.      The device of claim 22, wherein the acoustic interrogation system is configured to
maintain the device in a fixed position with respect to the transducer assembly.
                                                 54

24.     The device of claim 1, wherein shear modulus is measured over time from an
interrogation of the plurality of chambers by the acoustic interrogation system.
25.     The device of claim 24, wherein the shear modulus of at least one test chamber is
estimated by analyzing resonance of ultrasound induced shear waves generated within said test
chamber.
26.     The device of claim 1, wherein the evaluation of hemostasis comprises an assessment of
coagulation factors that includes initiation of clotting, formation of fibrin mesh, platelets
modulation factors, and clot dissolution.
27.     The device of claim 1, wherein the resonant portion causes repeated reflections of an
induced shear wave at walls defining portions of the resonant portion to generate resonance in
the resonant portion.
28.     The device of claim 1, wherein the housing is configured as a consumable cartridge.
29.     The device of claim 1, wherein the test sample comprises clotted blood.
                                                  55

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
