ABSTRACT
        A syringe includes a barrel having a proximal end, a distal end, and a sidewall
extending between the proximal end and the distal end along a longitudinal axis. At least one
syringe retaining member protrudes radially outwardly relative to an outer surface of the
sidewall. The at least one syringe retaining member tapers axially in a direction from the
distal end toward the proximal end. The at least one syringe retaining member is configured
for selective engagement with a locking mechanism on a fluid injector to releasably lock the
syringe with the fluid injector. A taper of the at least one syringe retaining member is
configured to rotationally guide the syringe into alignment with the locking mechanism.

                  2/39
                                   24 2
       12,
                     36
               30            21        15
    26          25        34
         23      -'49           18
            29
28-
                      200
               FIG. 1B

                                                  1
                 SELF-ORIENTING SYRINGE AND SYRINGE INTERFACE
BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE
Cross Reference to Related Application
[0001]     The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
Number 2015249077, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Field of the Disclosure
[0002]     The present disclosure relates generally to a system including a self-orienting, front
loading syringe for use with a fluid injector and, further, to a connection interface for securing
the syringe to the fluid injector and to a method for loading and removal of the syringe to and
from the fluid injector.
Description of Related Art
[0003]     In many medical diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, a medical practitioner, such as
a physician, injects a patient with one or more medical fluids. In recent years, a number of
injector-actuated syringes and fluid injectors for pressurized injection of medical fluids, such as
a contrast solution (often referred to simply as "contrast"), a flushing agent, such as saline, and
other medical fluids, have been developed for use in procedures such as angiography, computed
tomography      (CT),  ultrasound,  magnetic    resonance    imaging (MRI),       positron  emission
tomography (PET), and other molecular imaging procedures.          In general, these fluid injectors
are designed to deliver a preset amount of fluid at a preset pressure and/or flow rate.
[0004]     In some injection procedures, the medical practitioner places a catheter or a needle
connected to tubing, or other fluid delivery connection into a vein or artery of the patient. The
catheter or the tubing is connected to either a manual or to an automatic fluid injection
mechanism.       Automatic fluid injection mechanisms typically include at least one syringe
connected to at least one fluid injector having, for example, at least one powered linear piston.
The at least one syringe includes, for example, a source of contrast and/or a source of flushing
fluid.  The medical practitioner enters settings into an electronic control system of the fluid
injector for a fixed volume of contrast and/or saline and a fixed rate of injection for each.
[0005]     The injected contrast and/or saline are delivered to a patient's vasculature through the
catheter or needle inserted into the patient's body, such as the patient's arm or groin area. A

                                                   2
dose of contrast is referred to as a bolus. Once the bolus of contrast is delivered to the desired
site, that area is imaged using a conventional imaging technique, such as angiography imaging
or scanning, computed tomography (CT), ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI),
positron emission tomography (PET), and other molecular imaging procedures. The presence of
the contrast becomes clearly visible against the background of the surrounding tissue.
[0006]     Various front-loading connection interfaces have been developed to facilitate the
loading and removal of the syringe to and from the fluid injector. In some embodiments, the
syringe having a retention feature is inserted into a syringe port on the fluid injector by aligning
the syringe with a corresponding locking feature provided on the fluid injector.            It is often
necessary for the medical practitioner to manually align the retention feature of the syringe with
the corresponding locking feature on the fluid injector before the syringe can be loaded onto the
injector. In some cases, there are only one or two possible alignments for loading, such as
shown in United States Patent No. 6,336,913.         In these syringes, the operator must rotate the
syringe to find an alignment that allows the syringe to engage the fluid injector.           It is then
necessary for the operator to manually rotate the syringe relative to the locking feature to create
a strong enough engagement for operation of the injector. In another embodiment disclosed in
United States Patent No. 6,652,489, there is no need to rotationally align the syringe or to rotate
the syringe for installation or engagement. To remove the syringe, the operator must rotate the
syringe at least 45 degrees, and more commonly 90 degrees, about its longitudinal axis. After
rotation, the operator must then physically pull the syringe out of the injector.              In some
embodiments, the operator must pull on the syringe at the same time while rotating the syringe.
Such syringe injector features require additional time and effort to load/remove the syringe from
the injector, resulting in increased time for a medical injection procedure.
[0007]     Accordingly, there is a need in the art for an improved syringe and injector attachment,
interface, and/or locking feature that allows the operator to more easily disengage or release the
syringe from the fluid injector, for example to relieve the operator of the effort of
simultaneously pulling and rotating the syringe.       There is a further need in the art for reducing
or eliminating the need for the operator to rotationally align the syringe with the fluid injector
during engagement of the syringe with the fluid injector. While various syringe connection
interfaces and methods are known in the medical field, improved syringe designs, syringe
retention mechanisms, connection interfaces between the syringe and the fluid injector and
methods for loading and removing the syringe to and from the fluid injector continue to be in
demand.

                                                    3
SUMMARY OF DISCLOSURE
[0008]     In view of the disadvantages of the existing connection interfaces between the syringe
and the fluid injector, there is a need in the art for an improved connection interface between the
syringe and the fluid injector that overcomes the deficiencies of the prior art. There is an
additional need for improved syringes, syringe retention mechanisms, and methods for engaging
and disengaging the syringe to and from the fluid injector so that the syringe does not have to be
manually rotationally aligned about its longitudinal axis relative to the fluid injector to allow
easy loading or removal/ejection of the syringe to and from the fluid injector.
[0009]     In one embodiment, a syringe may include a barrel having a proximal end, a distal
end, and a substantially circumferential sidewall extending between the proximal end and the
distal end along a longitudinal axis. At least one syringe retaining member may protrude
radially outwardly relative to an outer surface of the sidewall. The at least one syringe retaining
member may taper axially along the outer surface of the sidewall in a direction from the distal
end toward the proximal end. The at least one syringe retaining member may be configured for
engagement with a locking mechanism on a fluid injector to releasably lock the syringe with the
fluid injector. A taper of the at least one syringe retaining member may be configured to
rotationally guide the syringe into self-oriented alignment with the locking mechanism and
axially eject the syringe upon rotation of the syringe.
[0010]     The at least one syringe retaining member may have at least one first surface tapered
axially in a direction from the distal end toward the proximal end. The at least one syringe
retaining member may further have a second surface configured to guide the syringe into self
oriented alignment with the locking mechanism. The first surface and the second surface on the
syringe retaining member may be linear, segmented, curved, continuous, discontinuous, or
planar. The second surface may be tapered axially in a direction opposite the first surface. The
at least one syringe retaining member may be monolithically formed on the outer surface of the
syringe. The at least one syringe retaining member may be separated from the outer surface of
the syringe.    The at least one syringe retaining member may have a base surface arranged
substantially perpendicularly relative to the longitudinal axis. At least a portion of the at least
one syringe retaining member may protrude substantially perpendicularly relative to the outer
surface of the syringe. Individual syringe retaining members in the plurality of syringe retaining
members may be shaped substantially the same or may have two or more different shapes.

                                                   4
[0011]     In some embodiments, a plurality of syringe retaining members may be spaced around
at least a portion of the outer surface of the syringe. The plurality of syringe retaining members
may be separated at substantially equal angular intervals around the outer surface of the syringe.
The plurality of syringe retaining members may be separated at unequal angular intervals around
the outer surface. The plurality of syringe retaining members may be aligned longitudinally at or
near the proximal end relative to the longitudinal axis. At least one of the plurality of syringe
retaining members may be offset toward the proximal end of the barrel. At least one of the
plurality of syringe retaining members may be offset toward the distal end of the barrel.
[0012]     In some embodiments, the at least one syringe retaining member may have one or
more locking tabs having at least one stop surface for preventing a rotation of the syringe within
the locking mechanism. The at least one syringe retaining member may have at least one first
lug and at least one second lug. The at least one first lug may be the same or different from the
at least one second lug. The at least one first lug may be offset longitudinally along the
longitudinal axis relative to the at least one second lug. At least one of the first lug and the
second lug may have an inclined release member protruding at an angle from the outer surface
of the barrel to a top surface of the at least one of the first lug and the second lug. The at least
one syringe retaining member may have at least one hollow portion and in certain embodiments
at least one reinforcing member may be provided in the at least one hollow portion. A flange
may protrude radially outwardly from the outer surface of the sidewall relative to the
longitudinal axis and distally of the at least one syringe retaining member. The flange may
extend around at least a portion of the outer surface of the sidewall. The flange may have a
longitudinal stop surface for limiting a length of a longitudinal insertion of the syringe into the
locking mechanism.       The at least one syringe retaining member may have a shape with a
triangular outline, an arrowhead-shaped outline, a rectangular outline, or a rounded outline. The
at least one syringe retaining member may have a top surface shaped to correspond to the outer
surface of the syringe. The at least one syringe retaining member may be configured for being
received within a clearance space on the locking mechanism.
[0013]     In some embodiments, a syringe may have a barrel with a proximal end, a distal end,
and a sidewall extending substantially circumferentially between the proximal end and the distal
end along a longitudinal axis. The syringe may have at least one syringe retaining member
protruding radially outwardly relative to an outer surface of the sidewall.        The at least one
syringe retaining member may have at least one surface tapered axially along the outer surface
of the sidewall in a direction from the distal end toward the proximal end. The at least one

                                                   5
syringe retaining member may be configured for engagement with a locking mechanism on a
fluid injector to releasably lock the syringe with the fluid injector. The at least one surface may
be configured to rotationally guide the syringe into self-oriented alignment with the locking
mechanism and may further be configured to axially eject the syringe upon rotation of the
syringe.
[0014]     In other embodiments, a syringe may have a barrel with a proximal end, a distal end,
and a sidewall extending substantially circumferentially between the proximal end and the distal
end along a longitudinal axis. The syringe may have at least one syringe retaining member
protruding radially outwardly relative to an outer surface of the sidewall.         The at least one
syringe retaining member may have a first surface and a second surface, such that the first
surface is offset axially and radially relative to the second surface.     The at least one syringe
retaining member may be configured for engagement with a locking mechanism on a fluid
injector to releasably lock the syringe with the fluid injector. At least one of the first and the
second surface may be configured to rotationally guide the syringe into self-oriented alignment
with the locking mechanism and the first surface and the second surface may further be
configured to axially eject the syringe upon rotation of the syringe.
[0015]     In some embodiments, a fluid injection apparatus may include at least one syringe
having a cylindrical barrel with a distal end, a proximal end, a sidewall, and a longitudinal axis
extending therebetween. The barrel may have at least one syringe retaining member protruding
radially outwardly from an outer surface of the sidewall.        The at least one syringe retaining
member may have a surface tapered axially in a direction toward the proximal end.                The
apparatus may further include an injector having an injector housing defining at least one
syringe port for receiving the at least one syringe and a locking mechanism associated with the
at least one syringe port for securing the at least one syringe within the at least one syringe port.
The locking mechanism may be configured for engaging the at least one syringe retaining
member of the syringe to releasably lock the at least one syringe within the at least one syringe
port and to axially eject the at least one syringe from the at least one syringe port upon rotation
of the syringe.
[0016]     In some embodiments, the first surface may be configured to rotationally guide the at
least one syringe into self-alignment alignment with the locking mechanism.             The locking
mechanism may include a housing having a proximal end, a distal end, and a central opening
extending therebetween, a first retaining ring at the distal end of the housing, and a second
retaining ring within the central opening of the housing between the proximal end and the first

                                                   6
retaining ring. The second retaining ring may be rotatable relative to the first retaining ring to
operatively engage the at least one syringe retaining member of the syringe. The first retaining
ring may have at least one first recess configured to receive the at least one syringe retaining
member when the proximal end of the at least one syringe is inserted into the at least one
syringe port. The at least one first recess may project radially outwardly into an inner sidewall
of the first retaining ring. Lateral surfaces of the at least one first recess may define a guide path
for guiding a movement of the at least one syringe retaining member within the at least one first
recess. The at least one first recess may have at least one guide surface for guiding the first
surface of the at least one syringe into the at least one first recess. The first surface of the at
least one syringe retaining member may engage at least a portion of the at least one guide
surface upon movement of the at least one syringe in a proximal direction. The at least one
guide surface may be angled or curved relative to the longitudinal axis in a direction from the
distal end toward the proximal end. A plurality of syringe retaining members may be spaced
around at least a portion of the outer surface of the sidewall of the at least one syringe, such as
near the proximal end, and a plurality of first recesses may be spaced apart around at least a
portion of an inner surface of the first retaining ring.
[0017]     In other embodiments, the second retaining ring may have one or more locking
elements on at least a portion of an inner sidewall of the second retaining ring. The one or more
locking elements may extend radially outward into an inner sidewall of the second retaining
ring. The one or more locking elements may be separated by one or more second recesses. The
one or more second recesses may be configured to receive the at least one syringe retaining
member when the proximal end of the at least one syringe is inserted through the first retaining
ring. The first retaining ring may include one or more first recesses and the second retaining
ring may include one or more second recesses configured for receiving the at least one syringe
retaining member upon rotation of the second retaining ring into selective alignment with the
one or more first recesses. At least one elastically resilient member may be coupled with the
second retaining ring. At least one sensor may be operatively associated with the injector for
sensing information about the syringe. The at least one sensor may be configured for reading
information encoded on an encoding device on the syringe.
[0018]     In some embodiments, a method of loading a syringe into a locking mechanism of a
syringe port of a fluid injector may include providing a syringe having at least one syringe
retaining member protruding radially outwardly from an outer surface of a syringe sidewall with
at least one tapering surface tapering in a direction from a distal end toward a proximal end of

                                                  7
the syringe, and engaging the at least one tapering surface of the syringe with at least a portion
of the locking mechanism to rotationally guide the syringe into self-oriented alignment with the
locking mechanism.       The method may further include self-orienting the syringe within the
syringe port.
[0019]     According to another aspect, the present disclosure provides a syringe comprising: a
barrel having    a proximal end, a distal end, and a sidewall               extending substantially
circumferentially between the proximal end and the distal end along a longitudinal axis; and at
least one syringe retaining member having at least one first lug protruding radially outward
relative to an outer surface of the sidewall, the at least one first lug comprising a base surface
and at least one third surface, wherein the at least one third surface is tapered axially relative to
the longitudinal axis of the barrel in a proximal direction, wherein the at least one first lug is
configured for engagement with a locking mechanism in a syringe port on a fluid injector, and
wherein at least a portion of the at least one third surface axially ejects the syringe from the
syringe port upon rotation of the syringe.
[0020]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of the
previous aspect, wherein the at least one first lug further comprises a proximal point at the
proximal end of the at least one third surface, wherein at least a portion of the at least one third
surface rotationally    guides the syringe into self-orienting       alignment with the locking
mechanism.
[0021]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the at least one third surface is one of a planar surface, a segmented
surface, an arcuate surface, a curved surface, a discontinuous surface defining a tapered surface,
and combinations thereof. According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the
syringe of any of the previous aspect, wherein the at least one third surface is an arcuate surface.
[0022]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the base surface releasably engages a locking surface of the locking
mechanism in the syringe port to releasably lock the syringe with the fluid injector.
[0023]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the at least one first lug further comprises at least one first surface,
wherein the at least one first surface extends from a first end of the base surface to a most
proximal end of the at least one third surface.

                                                  8
[0024]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the at least one first surface and the most proximal end of the at least
one third surface are joined together at a rounded point or a sharp point.
[0025]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the at least one first surface and the most proximal end of the at least
one third surface are joined together at a rounded point.
[0026]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the at least one first lug further comprises at least one second surface,
wherein the at least one second surface extends from a second end of the base surface to a most
distal end of the at least one third surface.
[0027]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the base surface, the at least one first surface, the at least one second
surface, and the at least one third surface define a border of a top surface of the at least one first
lug.
[0028]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the top surface has a curvature shaped to correspond to a
circumferential curvature of the sidewall of the barrel.
[0029]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the top surface comprises a plurality of separate surfaces defining the
top surface. According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of
the previous aspect, wherein the at least one first lug has at least one hollow section defined by
the plurality of separate surfaces of the top surface and projecting radially inward from the top
surface.
[0030]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, further comprising at least one second lug extending radially outward from the
sidewall of the barrel and comprising a second base surface for releasably engaging a locking
surface of the locking mechanism in the syringe port to releasably lock the syringe with the fluid
injector.
[0031]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the base surface of the at least one first lug and the second base surface

                                                   9
of the at least one second lug are the same longitudinal distance from the proximal end of the
barrel of the syringe.
[0032]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the at least one first lug and the at least one second lug are evenly
spaced around the circumference of the barrel.
[0033]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the syringe comprises two first lugs. According to a further aspect the
present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the previous aspect, the two first lugs are on
opposite sides of the circumference of the barrel.
[0034]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the syringe comprises four second lugs. According to a further aspect
the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the previous aspect, wherein a first pair of
the four second lugs are adjacent to each other and a second pair of the four second lugs are
adjacent to each other around the circumference of the barrel, but the first pair of the second
lugs are not adjacent to the second pair of the second lugs.
[0035]     According to another aspect, the present disclosure provides a syringe comprising: a
barrel having a proximal end, a distal end, and a sidewall extending substantially
circumferentially between the proximal end and the distal end along a longitudinal axis; and at
least one syringe retaining member having at least one first lug protruding radially outward
relative to an outer surface of the sidewall, the at least one first lug comprising a base surface, at
least one third surface, and a proximal point at a most proximal end of the at least one third
surface, wherein the at least one third surface is tapered axially relative to the longitudinal axis
of the barrel in a proximal direction ending at the proximal point, wherein the at least one first
lug is configured for engagement with a locking mechanism in a syringe port on a fluid injector
to releasably lock the syringe with the fluid injector, and wherein the proximal point and at least
a portion of the at least one third surface rotationally guide the syringe into self-orienting
alignment with the locking mechanism.
[0036]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein at least a portion of the at least one third surface axially ejects the
syringe from the syringe port upon rotation of the syringe.

                                                  10
[0037]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the at least one third surface is one of a planar surface, a segmented
surface, an arcuate surface, a curved surface, a discontinuous surface defining a tapered surface,
and combinations thereof. According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the
syringe of any of the previous aspect, wherein the at least one third surface is an arcuate surface.
[0038]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the at least one first lug further comprises at least one first surface,
wherein the at least one first surface extends from a first end of the base surface to the most
proximal end of the at least one third surface to form the proximal point. According to a further
aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the previous aspect, wherein the
proximal point of the at least one first lug comprises a rounded point or a sharp point.
According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the previous
aspect, wherein the proximal point of the at least one first lug comprises a rounded point.
[0039]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the at least one first lug further comprises at least one second surface,
wherein the at least one second surface extends from a second end of the base surface to a distal
end of the at least one third surface.
[0040]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the base surface, the at least one first surface, the at least one second
surface, and the at least one third surface define a border of a top surface of the at least one first
lug.
[0041]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the top surface has a curvature shaped to correspond to a
circumferential curvature of the sidewall of the barrel.
[0042]    According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the top surface comprises a plurality of separate surfaces defining the
top surface. According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of
the previous aspect, wherein the at least one first lug has at least one hollow section defined by
the plurality of separate surfaces of the top surface and projecting radially inward from the top
surface.

                                                  11
[0043]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, further comprising at least one second lug extending radially outward from the
sidewall of the barrel and comprising a second base surface for releasably engaging a locking
surface of the locking mechanism in the syringe port to releasably lock the syringe with the fluid
injector.
[0044]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the base surface of the at least one first lug and the second base surface
of the at least one second lug are the same longitudinal distance from the proximal end of the
barrel of the syringe.
[0045]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the at least one first lug and the at least one second lug are evenly
spaced around the circumference of the barrel.
[0046]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the syringe comprises two first lugs. According to a further aspect the
present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the previous aspect, wherein the two first lugs
are on opposite sides of the circumference of the barrel.
[0047]     According to a further aspect the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the
previous aspect, wherein the syringe comprises four second lugs. According to a further aspect
the present disclosure provides, the syringe of any of the previous aspect, wherein a first pair of
the four second lugs are adjacent to each other and a second pair of the four second lugs are
adjacent to each other around the circumference of the barrel, but the first pair of the second
lugs are not adjacent to the second pair of the second lugs.
[0048]     According to another aspect, the present disclosure provides a syringe comprising: a
barrel having     a proximal end, a distal end, and a sidewall              extending substantially
circumferentially between the proximal end and the distal end along a longitudinal axis; and at
least one syringe retaining member having at least one first lug protruding radially outward
relative to an outer surface of the sidewall, the at least one first lug comprising a base surface, at
least one third surface, and a proximal point at a most proximal end of the at least one third
surface, wherein the base surface is substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the
barrel and the at least one third surface is tapered axially relative to the longitudinal axis of the
barrel in a proximal direction ending at the proximal point, wherein the at least one lug is
configured for engagement with a locking mechanism in a syringe port on a fluid injector to

                                                 12
releasably lock the syringe with the fluid injector, wherein the proximal point and at least a
portion of the at least one third surface rotationally guides the syringe into self-orienting
alignment with the locking mechanism, and wherein at least a portion of the at least one third
surface axially ejects the syringe from the syringe port upon rotation of the syringe.
[0049]     According to another aspect there is disclosed a syringe comprising: a barrel having a
proximal end, a distal end, and a sidewall extending substantially circumferentially between the
proximal end and the distal end along a longitudinal axis; and at least one syringe retaining
member having at least one lug protruding radially outwardly relative to an outer surface of the
sidewall at the proximal end, the at least one lug having at least one tapered surface tapering
axially along the outer surface of the sidewall in a direction from the distal end toward the
proximal end, wherein the at least one lug is configured for engagement with a locking
mechanism on a fluid injector to releasably lock the syringe with the fluid injector, and wherein
a taper of the at least one lug is configured to rotationally guide the syringe into self-orienting
alignment with the locking mechanism by engaging at least a first surface of the locking
mechanism and axially eject the syringe upon rotation of the syringe about the longitudinal axis
by engaging at least a second surface of the locking mechanism.
[0050]     According to another aspect there is disclosed a syringe comprising: a barrel having a
proximal end, a distal end, and a sidewall extending substantially circumferentially between the
proximal end and the distal end along a longitudinal axis; and at least one lug protruding radially
outwardly relative to an outer surface of the sidewall at the proximal end, the at least one lug
having at least one surface tapering axially along the outer surface of the sidewall in a direction
from the distal end toward the proximal end, wherein the at least one lug is configured for
engagement with a locking mechanism on a fluid injector to releasably lock the syringe with the
fluid injector, and wherein the at least one surface is configured to rotationally guide the syringe
into self-orienting alignment with the locking mechanism by engaging at least a first surface of
the locking mechanism and wherein the at least one surface axially eject the syringe upon
rotation of the syringe about the longitudinal axis by engaging at least a second surface of the
locking mechanism.
[0051]     According to another aspect there is disclosed a syringe comprising: a barrel having a
proximal end, a distal end, and a sidewall extending substantially circumferentially between the
proximal end and the distal end along a longitudinal axis; a plurality of lugs protruding radially
outwardly relative to an outer surface of the sidewall at the proximal end and spaced around at
least a portion of the outer surface of the sidewall, at least one of the plurality of lugs

                                                 13
comprising: a first surface tapered axially along the outer surface of the sidewall in the direction
from the distal end toward the proximal end; a second surface tapered axially along the outer
surface of the sidewall in a direction opposite the first surface; a base surface arranged
substantially perpendicularly relative to the longitudinal axis; and at least one surface
connecting the first surface and the second surface to the base surface, wherein at least one of
the plurality of lugs is configured for engagement with a locking mechanism on a fluid injector
to releasably lock the syringe with the fluid injector, and wherein at least one of the first surface
and the second surface are configured to rotationally guide the syringe into self-orienting
alignment with the locking mechanism by engaging at least a first surface of the locking
mechanism, and wherein at least one of the first surface and the second surface are configured to
axially eject the syringe upon rotation of the syringe about the longitudinal axis by engaging at
least a second surface of the locking mechanism.
[0052]     According to another aspect there is disclosed a fluid injection apparatus, comprising:
at least one syringe comprising a cylindrical barrel with a distal end, a proximal end, a sidewall,
and a longitudinal axis extending between the distal end and the proximal end, the barrel having
at least one lug protruding radially outwardly from an outer surface of the sidewall at the
proximal end, the at least one lug having a surface tapered axially in a direction toward the
proximal end, an injector comprising an injector housing defining at least one syringe port for
receiving the at least one syringe; and a locking mechanism associated with the at least one
syringe port for securing the at least one syringe within the at least one syringe port, the locking
mechanism configured for engaging the at least one lug of the syringe to releasably lock the at
least one syringe within the at least one syringe port, wherein the tapered surface of the at least
one lug is configured to rotationally guide the at least one syringe into self-orienting alignment
with the locking mechanism by engaging at least a first surface of the locking mechanism and
axially eject the syringe upon rotation of the syringe about the longitudinal axis by engaging at
least a second surface of the locking mechanism.
[0053]     According to another aspect there is disclosed a syringe comprising: a barrel having a
proximal end, a distal end, and a sidewall extending substantially circumferentially between the
proximal end and the distal end along a longitudinal axis; and at least one syringe retaining
member having at least one first lug protruding radially outward relative to an outer surface of
the sidewall at the proximal end, the at least one first lug comprising a base surface and at least
one third surface, wherein the at least one third surface is tapered axially relative to the
longitudinal axis of the barrel in a proximal direction, wherein the at least one first lug is

                                                  14
configured for engagement with a locking mechanism in a syringe port on a fluid injector, and
wherein at least a portion of the at least one third surface axially ejects the syringe from the
syringe port upon rotation of the syringe about the longitudinal axis by engaging at least a
second surface of the locking mechanism.
[0054]     According to another aspect there is disclosed a syringe comprising: a barrel having a
proximal end, a distal end, and a sidewall extending substantially circumferentially between the
proximal end and the distal end along a longitudinal axis; and at least one syringe retaining
member having at least one first lug protruding radially outward relative to an outer surface of
the sidewall at the proximal end, the at least one first lug comprising a base surface, at least one
third surface, and a proximal point at a most proximal end of the at least one third surface,
wherein the at least one third surface is tapered axially relative to the longitudinal axis of the
barrel in a proximal direction ending at the proximal point, wherein the at least one first lug is
configured for engagement with a locking mechanism in a syringe port on a fluid injector to
releasably lock the syringe with the fluid injector, and wherein the proximal point and at least a
portion of the at least one third surface rotationally guide the syringe into self-orienting
alignment with the locking mechanism by engaging at least a first surface of the locking
mechanism.
[0055]     According to another aspect there is disclosed a syringe comprising: a barrel having a
proximal end, a distal end, and a sidewall extending substantially circumferentially between the
proximal end and the distal end along a longitudinal axis; and at least one syringe retaining
member having at least one first lug protruding radially outward relative to an outer surface of
the sidewall at the proximal end, the at least one first lug comprising a base surface, at least one
third surface, and a proximal point at a most proximal end of the at least one third surface,
wherein the base surface is substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the barrel and
the at least one third surface is tapered axially relative to the longitudinal axis of the barrel in a
proximal direction ending at the proximal point, wherein the at least one lug is configured for
engagement with a locking mechanism in a syringe port on a fluid injector to releasably lock the
syringe with the fluid injector, wherein the proximal point and at least a portion of the at least
one third surface rotationally guides the syringe into self-orienting alignment with the locking
mechanism by engaging at least a first surface of the locking mechanism, and wherein at least a
portion of the at least one third surface axially ejects the syringe from the syringe port upon
rotation of the syringe about the longitudinal axis by engaging at least a second surface of the
locking mechanism.

                                                    15
[0056]     Also disclosed herein is a medical injector comprising at least one syringe port for
engaging at least one syringe, the syringe port comprising a locking mechanism comprising: a
housing; and a first retaining ring at a distal end of the housing, the first retaining ring having a
central opening and a sidewall, wherein the sidewall has one or more first recesses extending
radially outward into the sidewall and lateral surfaces of each first recess defining a travel path
for guiding movement of one or more retaining lugs of a syringe, wherein each first recess
comprises at least one first guiding surface and a second guiding surface to guide the retaining
lug into self-oriented alignment with the first recess.
[0057]     Also disclosed herein is a medical injector comprising at least one syringe port for
engaging at least one syringe, the syringe port comprising a locking mechanism comprising: a
housing; a first retaining ring at a distal end of the housing, the first retaining ring having a
central opening and a sidewall, wherein the sidewall has one or more first recesses extending
radially outward into the sidewall and lateral surfaces of each first recess defining a travel path
for guiding movement of one or more retaining lugs of a syringe; and a second retaining ring
that is rotatable relative to the first regaining ring and the housing, wherein the second retaining
ring comprising one or more locking elements extending radially from an inner sidewall of the
second retaining ring and are separated by one or more second recesses for receiving the one or
more retaining lugs when an insertion section of the syringe is inserted through the central
opening of the first retaining ring, wherein the one or more locking elements comprise a first
inclined surface for engaging a corresponding inclined surface of the one or more retaining lugs
for axially ejecting the syringe upon disengagement of the syringe from the syringe port.
[0058]     Also disclosed herein is a medical injector comprising at least one syringe port for
engaging at least one syringe, the syringe port comprising a locking mechanism comprising: a
housing; a first retaining ring at a distal end of the housing, the first retaining ring having a
central opening and a sidewall, wherein the sidewall has one or more first recesses extending
radially outward into the sidewall and lateral surfaces of each first recess defining a travel path
for guiding movement of one or more retaining lugs of a syringe; and a second retaining ring
that is rotatable relative to the first regaining ring and the housing, wherein each first recess
comprises at least one first guiding surface and a second guiding surface to guide the retaining
lug into self-oriented alignment with the first recess, and wherein the second retaining ring
comprising one or more locking elements extending radially from an inner sidewall of the
second retaining ring and are separated by one or more second recesses for receiving the one or
more retaining lugs when an insertion section of the syringe is inserted through the central

                                                 16
opening of the first retaining ring, wherein the one or more locking elements comprise a first
inclined surface for engaging a corresponding inclined surface of the one or more retaining lugs
for axially ejecting the syringe upon disengagement of the syringe from the syringe port.
[0059]     These and other features and characteristics of syringes, syringe connection interfaces,
and systems having syringes and/or syringe connection interfaces, as well as the methods of
operation and functions of the related elements of structures and the combination of parts and
economies of manufacture, will become more apparent upon consideration of the following
description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings, all of which
form a part of this specification, wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts
in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood, however, that the drawings are for the
purpose of illustration and description only. As used in the specification and the claims, the
singular form of "a", "an", and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0060]     FIG. 1A is a schematic view of a system including a fluid injector and a syringe
according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0061]     FIG. 1B is a perspective view of a syringe according to one embodiment of the present
disclosure;
[0062]     FIG. 2A is an exploded perspective view of a connection interface for securing a
syringe to a fluid injector according to one embodiment;
[0063]     FIG. 2B is a detailed perspective view of the assembled connection interface shown in
FIG. 2A;
[0064]     FIG. 2C is a cross-sectional view of the connection interface shown in FIG. 2A with a
syringe loaded into a syringe port;
[0065]     FIG. 2D is a cross-sectional perspective view of the connection interface shown in
FIG. 2C;
[0066]     FIG. 3A is a front, exploded perspective view of a connection interface for securing a
syringe to a fluid injector according to another embodiment;

                                                  17
[0067]      FIG. 3B is a rear, exploded perspective view of the connection interface shown in FIG.
3A;
[0068]      FIG. 3C is a cross-sectional view of the connection interface shown in FIG. 3A with a
syringe loaded into a syringe port;
[0069]      FIG. 3D is a cross-sectional view of the connection interface of FIG. 3C showing the
syringe being loaded into the syringe port;
[0070]      FIG. 3E is a cross-sectional view of the connection interface of FIG. 3C showing the
syringe locked relative to the syringe port;
[0071]      FIG. 3F is a cross-sectional view of the connection interface of FIG. 3C showing a
first step in unlocking the syringe from the syringe port;
[0072]      FIG. 3G is a cross-sectional view of the connection interface of FIG. 3C showing a
second step in unlocking the syringe from the syringe port;
[0073]      FIG. 3H is a cross-sectional view of the connection interface of FIG. 3C showing a
third step in unlocking the syringe from the syringe port;
[0074]      FIGS. 4A-4M show cylindrical plan projection views of connection interfaces for
securing a syringe to a fluid injector according to various other embodiments;
[0075]      FIGS. 5A-5Z show various embodiments of syringe retaining members on a syringe;
[0076]      FIG. 6A is a perspective view of a coupling configured for connecting a syringe of the
present disclosure to an injector;
[0077]      FIG. 6B is a perspective view of an adapter configured for connecting a syringe to an
injector of the present disclosure;
[0078]      FIGS. 7A-7B are perspective views of alternative embodiments of connection portions
of the coupling shown in FIG. 6A;
[0079]      FIG. 8A is a schematic diagram of forces on an embodiment of a syringe retaining
member and connection interface during ejection of a syringe from a fluid injector;
[0080]      FIG. 8B is a graph of a slip angle for syringe ejection as a function of a coefficient of
friction between a syringe retaining member and a locking mechanism;

                                                 18
[0081]     FIG. 8C is a graph of a ratio of a rotational force on a syringe during ejection relative
to a restoring force of a locking mechanism as a function of an angle of tapered surfaces at a
connection interface;
[0082]     FIG. 9A is a schematic diagram of forces on an embodiment of a syringe retaining
member and connection interface during an insertion of a syringe into a fluid injector;
[0083]     FIG. 9B is a graph of a slip angle for syringe ejection as a function of a coefficient of
friction between a syringe and a locking mechanism; and
[0084]     FIGS. 10A-10H show various embodiments of syringe retaining members on the
syringe.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0085]     For purposes of the description hereinafter, the terms "upper", "lower", "right", "left",
"vertical", "horizontal", "top", "bottom", "lateral", "longitudinal", and derivatives thereof shall
relate to the disclosure as it is oriented in the drawing figures. When used in relation to a
syringe, the term "proximal" refers to a portion of a syringe nearest the to an injector when a
syringe is oriented for connecting to an injector. The term "distal" refers to a portion of a
syringe farthest away from an injector when a syringe is oriented for connecting to an injector.
The term "radial" refers to a direction in a cross-sectional plane normal to a longitudinal axis of
a syringe extending between proximal and distal ends. The term "circumferential" refers to a
direction around an inner or outer surface of a sidewall of a syringe. The term "axial" refers to a
direction along a longitudinal axis of a syringe extending between the proximal and distal ends.
The term "self-orienting" means that a syringe orients itself to the correct orientation within a
syringe port during insertion without effort by a technician. The terms " axial taper", "axial
tapering", and "tapering axially" mean an angle of inclination of at least one virtual or real
surface on a syringe in a cylindrical plan projection view in a direction from a distal end toward
a proximal end of a syringe. It is to be understood, however, that the disclosure may assume
alternative variations and step sequences, except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is
also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings,
and described in the following specification, are simply exemplary embodiments of the
disclosure.    Hence, specific dimensions and other physical characteristics related to the
embodiments (i.e., aspects, variants, variations) disclosed herein are not to be considered as
limiting.

                                                 19
[0086]     Referring to the drawings in which like reference characters refer to like parts
throughout the several views thereof, the present disclosure is generally directed to syringe and a
connection interface for connecting a syringe to a fluid injector.
[0087]     With reference to FIG. 1A, a fluid injector 10 (hereinafter referred to as "injector 10"),
such as an automated or powered fluid injector, is adapted to interface with and actuate at least
one syringe 12, each of which may be independently filled with a medical fluid F, such as
contrast media, saline solution, or any desired medical fluid.      The injector 10 may be used
during a medical procedure to inject the medical fluid into the body of a patient by driving a
plunger 26 of the at least one syringe 12 with at least one piston. The injector 10 may be a
multi-syringe injector, wherein several syringes 12 may be oriented in a side-by-side or other
relationship and include plungers 26 separately actuated by respective pistons associated with
the injector 10. In embodiments with two syringes arranged in a side-by-side relationship and
filled with two different medical fluids, the injector 10 may be configured to deliver fluid from
one or both of the syringes 12.
[0088]     The injector 10 may be enclosed within a housing 14 formed from a suitable structural
material, such as plastic or metal. The housing 14 may be of various shapes and sizes depending
on the desired application.     For example, the injector 10 may be a free-standing structure
configured to be placed on the floor or may be a smaller design for placement on a suitable table
or support frame. The injector 10 includes at least one syringe port 16 for connecting the at least
one syringe 12 to respective piston elements.         As will be described hereinafter, in some
embodiments, the at least one syringe 12 includes at least one syringe retaining member
configured for retaining the syringe 12 within the syringe port 16 of the injector 10. The at least
one syringe retaining member is configured to operatively engage a locking mechanism
provided on or in the syringe port 16 of the injector 10 to facilitate self-oriented loading and/or
removal of the syringe 12 to and from the injector 10, as will be described herein. The syringe
retaining member and the locking mechanism together define a connection interface for
connecting the syringe 12 to the injector 10.
[0089]     At least one fluid path set 17 may be fluidly connected with the at least one syringe 12
for delivering medical fluid F from the at least one syringe 12 to a catheter, needle, or other fluid
delivery connection (not shown) inserted into a patient at a vascular access site. Fluid flow from
the at least one syringe 12 may be regulated by a fluid control module (not shown). The fluid
control module may operate various, pistons, valves, and/or flow regulating structures to
regulate the delivery of the medical fluid, such as saline solution and contrast, to the patient

                                                 20
based on user selected injection parameters, such as injection flow rate, duration, total injection
volume, and/or ratio of contrast media and saline. One embodiment of a suitable front-loading
fluid injector that may be modified for use with the above-described system including at least
one syringe and at least one syringe interface for self-oriented loading and releasable retaining
of the at least one syringe with the fluid injector described herein with reference to FIG. 1A is
disclosed in United States Patent No. 5,383,858 to Reilly et al. which is incorporated by
reference in its entirety. Another embodiment of relevant multi-fluid delivery systems that may
be modified for use with the present system are found in United States Patent No. 7,553,294 to
Lazzaro et al.; United States Patent No. 7,666,169 to Cowan et al.; International Patent
Application No. PCT/US2012/037491 (published as WO 2012/155035); and United States
Patent Application Publication No. 2014/0027009 to Riley et al.; all of which are assigned to the
assignee of the present application, and the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by
reference. Other embodiments may include new fluid injector systems designed to include
various embodiments of the interface described herein.
[0090]     Having described the general structure and function of the injector 10, the at least one
syringe 12 will now by discussed in greater detail. With reference to FIG. 1B, the syringe 12
generally has a cylindrical syringe barrel 18 formed from glass, metal, or a suitable medical
grade plastic.   The barrel 18 has a proximal end 20 and a distal end 24, with a sidewall 19
extending therebetween along a length of a longitudinal axis 15 extending through a center of
the barrel 18. The barrel 18 may be made from a transparent or translucent material, and may
include at least one fluid verification member 11 for verifying a presence of the fluid F within
the syringe barrel 18. A nozzle 22 extends from the distal end 24 of the barrel 18. The barrel 18
has an outer surface 21 and an inner surface 23 that defines an interior volume 25 configured for
receiving the fluid therein. The proximal end 20 of the barrel 18 may be sealed with the plunger
26 that is slidable through the barrel 18.   The plunger 26 forms a liquid-tight seal against the
inner surface 23 of sidewall 19 of the barrel 18 as it is advanced therethrough. The plunger 26
may have a rigid inner element 28 configured for engagement with the piston of the injector 10.
The plunger 26 may further include an elastomeric cover 29 disposed over at least a portion of
the rigid inner element 28. The elastomeric cover 29 is configured to engage the inner surface
23 of the barrel 18 and provide a liquid-tight seal against the sidewall 19 of the barrel 18 as it is
advanced therethrough.
[0091]     A drip flange 36 may extend radially outward from the outer surface 21 of the syringe
barrel 18 relative to the longitudinal axis 15. The drip flange 36 may extend around at least a

                                                 21
portion of the outer circumference of the barrel 18.     In one embodiment, the drip flange 36 is
positioned distally along the longitudinal axis 15 relative to a syringe retaining member 32. The
drip flange 36 may be configured to prevent fluid that drips from the nozzle 22 from entering the
syringe port 16 on the injector 10. In this manner, the drip flange 36 helps reduce the amount of
fluid that may enter the syringe port 16 and jam or otherwise interfere with the connection
interface 100 (shown in FIG. 2A) and/or the interior mechanics and electronics of the injector
10. In some embodiments, the drip flange 36 defines a stop surface that delimits the insertion
section 30 of the syringe 12. The drip flange 36 may be formed integrally with the barrel 18 or it
may be affixed or otherwise secured to the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 using, for example,
a frictional fit and/or an adhesive, welding, or by molding.       In other embodiments, the drip
flange 36 may be formed on the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 by etching, laser cutting, or
machining.
[0092]     With continued reference to FIG. 1B, the proximal end 20 of the syringe 12 is sized
and adapted for being removably inserted in the syringe port 16 of the injector 10 (shown in
FIG. 1A). In some embodiments, the proximal end 20 of the syringe 12 defines an insertion
section 30 that is configured to be removably inserted into the syringe port 16 of the injector 10
while the remaining portion of the syringe 12 remains outside of the syringe port 16. As will be
described in detail herein, in certain embodiments, the proximal end 20 of the syringe 12
includes one or more syringe retaining members 32 adapted to form a locking engagement with
a corresponding locking mechanism in the syringe port 16 of the injector 10 for releasably
retaining the syringe 12 in the syringe port 16. The combination of the syringe having the one
or more syringe retaining members 32 and the locking mechanism 35 (shown in FIG. 2A) of the
injector 10 defines a connection interface for loading and unloading the syringe 12 to and from
the injector 10. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the one or more syringe retaining
members 32 may cooperate with at least a portion of the locking mechanism to self-orient the
syringe 12 relative to the syringe port 16 such that the syringe 12 may be releasably inserted into
and locked with the syringe port 16.
[0093]     With reference to FIGS. 2A-2D, a connection interface 100 for loading and unloading
the at least one syringe 12 (FIG. 1B) from the at least one syringe port 16 of the injector 10
(shown in FIG. 1A) is shown in accordance with one embodiment. The syringe 12 and the
injector 10 include the connection interface 100 having at least one syringe retaining member 32
provided on the syringe 12 and a corresponding locking mechanism 35 provided on the syringe
port 16 of the injector 10. In one embodiment, the at least one syringe retaining member 32 is

                                                 22
provided on or near the proximal end 20 of the syringe barrel 18 and/or on at least a part of the
insertion section 30.     For example, the at least one syringe retaining member 32 may be
provided on an outer surface 21 of the syringe barrel 18 on at least a portion of the insertion
section 30. The at least one syringe retaining member 32 may be formed integrally with the
barrel 18 or it may be affixed or otherwise secured to the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 using,
for example, a frictional fit and/or an adhesive, welding, or by molding. In other embodiments,
the at least one syringe retaining member 32 may be formed on the outer surface 21 of the barrel
18 by etching, laser cutting, or machining.
[0094]     Referring to FIG. 1B, the at least one syringe retaining member 32 may be formed as
including one or more lugs 34 that protrude radially outwardly from the outer surface 21 of the
syringe barrel 18 relative to the longitudinal axis 15. In some embodiments, a plurality of lugs
34 may be separated radially about the circumference of the barrel 18. In such embodiments,
the lugs 34 are separated from each other by portions of the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18.
Together, each lug 34 and the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 on one radially adjacent side (left
or right) of the lug 34 define the syringe retaining member 32. In embodiments where more
than two lugs 34 are provided, the lugs 34 may be evenly or unevenly spaced apart in a radial
direction on the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18.          In one exemplary and non-limiting
embodiment with six syringe retaining members 32 having equal angular                    separation
therebetween, such as shown in FIG. 1B, each syringe retaining member 32 extends over 60
degrees and is therefore separated by 60 degrees from syringe retaining member 32 adjacent on
either side. In such embodiment, each lug 34 may extend over 30 degrees of the circumference
of the barrel 18 while the portion of the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 that defines the
remainder of the syringe retaining member 32 extends over the remaining 30 degrees. In other
embodiments, each lug 34 may extend at an angle a (shown in FIG. 2B), which may be more
than 30 degrees or less than 30 degrees of the circumference of the barrel 18. Similarly, each
portion of the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 between adjacent lugs 34 may extend at an angle
P (shown    in FIG. 2B), which may be more than 30 degrees or less than 30 degrees of the
circumference of the barrel 18. In some embodiments, the syringe retaining members 32 may
have unequal angular extension and/or unequal angular spacing between the syringe retaining
members 32 about the outer circumference of the barrel 18.         Furthermore, the one or more
syringe retaining members 32 may be aligned longitudinally along the longitudinal axis 15 from
the proximal end 20. In other embodiments, at least one lug 34 may be offset longitudinally
relative to the remaining lugs in a direction toward the proximal end 20 or the distal end 24. In
an embodiment in which one or more lugs 34 is absent, the corresponding syringe retaining

                                                  23
member 32 can be defined by the clearance surface(s) which is the outer surface 21 of the barrel
18 between adjacent lugs 34. While embodiments having each syringe retaining member 32
extending over 60 degrees are exemplified in the attached drawings, syringes with retaining
members 32 having other angles of separation, for example 360/x degrees where x is value from
1 and 36, are also within the scope of the present disclosure.
[0095]     With reference to FIGS. 2A-2B, each of the one or more lugs 34 may have a generally
triangular, rectangular, polygonal, or arrowhead shape.         The one or more lugs 34 protrude
radially outwardly from the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 in a direction substantially
perpendicular to the outer surface 21.       In some embodiments, the one or more lugs 34 or
portions of lugs 34 protrude radially outwardly from the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 at an
obtuse or acute angle between the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 and a top surface 46 of the
one or more lugs 34. In some embodiments, the lugs 34 may have an identical shape to each
other. In other embodiments, at least one of the lugs 34 may have a shape different from a shape
of the remaining lugs 34.
[0096]     In some embodiments, each of the one or more lugs 34 has a base surface 38 that may
be substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis 15 of the barrel 18 in a radial cross
sectional plane.    In other embodiments, the base surface 38 may be angled relative to the
direction of the longitudinal axis 15 as it extends around the outer circumference of the barrel 18
in a radial cross-sectional plane.      The base surface 38 may be planar, segmented, arcuate,
curved, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the base surface 38 may have a
plurality of individual sections that together define the base surface 38.          The plurality of
individual sections of the base surface 38 may define a surface that may be planar, segmented,
arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof.
[0097]     In certain embodiments, at least one first surface 40 may extend from at least one end
of the base surface 38 in a direction substantially parallel or tapered to the longitudinal axis 15.
With reference to FIG. 2B, a pair of first surfaces 40 is shown on opposite ends of the base
surface 38. In some embodiments, at least one first surface 40 may be tapered axially relative to
the longitudinal axis 15 in a proximal or a distal direction of the longitudinal axis 15. The axial
tapering of the at least one first surface 40 relative to the longitudinal axis 15 may be defined as
an angle of inclination of the first surface 40 in a cylindrical plan projection view in a direction
from the distal end 24 toward the proximal end 20. The first surfaces 40 may be tapered in a
same direction or opposite directions relative to the direction of the longitudinal axis 15. The at
least one first surface 40 may be directly connected with the base surface 38.             In some

                                                  24
embodiments, at least one first surface 40 may be disconnected from the base surface 38. The at
least one first surface 40 may be planar, segmented, arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof.
In some embodiments, the at least one first surface 40 may have a plurality of individual
sections that together define the at least one first surface 40. The plurality of individual sections
of the at least one first surface 40 may define a surface that may be planar, segmented, arcuate,
curved, or a combination thereof.
[0098]     At least one second surface 42 extends from at least one first surface 40 or the base
surface 38. With reference to FIG. 2B, a pair of second surfaces 42 is shown extending from the
proximal ends of first surfaces 40. In some embodiments, at least one second surface 42 may be
tapered axially and circumferentially (and optionally radially) relative to the longitudinal axis 15
in a proximal or a distal direction of the longitudinal axis 15. In some embodiments, at least one
second surface 42 may be tapered axially relative to the longitudinal axis 15 in a proximal
direction. The axial and circumferential tapering of the at least one second surface 42 relative to
the longitudinal axis 15 may be defined as an angle of inclination of the second surface 42 in a
cylindrical plan projection view in a direction from the distal end 24 toward the proximal end
20. For example, the at least one second surface 42 may be tapered at an angle 7 (shown in FIG.
2B) relative to a plane normal to the longitudinal axis 15. Each of the second surfaces 42 may
be tapered at a same or different angle y relative to the plane normal to the longitudinal axis 15.
The second surfaces 42 may join together at a rounded or a sharp point 44. At least one second
surface 42 may be directly connected with at least one of the first surface 40, the base surface
38, and the point 44. In some embodiments, at least one second surface 42 may be disconnected
from at least one of the first surface 40, the base surface 38, and the point 44.           In some
embodiments, the pair of second surfaces 42 may be omitted such that only the first surfaces 40
may join at the rounded or sharp point 44. In other embodiments, the rounded or sharp point 44
may be disconnected from the first surfaces 40 or the second surfaces 42.           The at least one
second surface 42 may be planar, segmented, arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof. In
some embodiments, the at least one second surface 42 may have a plurality of individual
sections that together define the at least one second surface 42.       The plurality of individual
sections of the at least one second surface 42 may define a surface that may be planar,
segmented, arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof.
[0099]     The base surface 38, the first and second surfaces 40, 42, and the point 44 define a
border or an outline of the top surface 46 of each of the one or more lugs 34.              In some
embodiments, the top surface 46 may be shaped to correspond to the curvature of the syringe

                                                  25
barrel 18. In other embodiments, the top surface 46 of one or more of the lugs 34 may be angled
relative to the outer surface 21 of the syringe barrel 18 such that a first end of the top surface 46
is higher than a second end of the top surface 46 relative to the surface of the syringe barrel 18.
The top surface 46 may be continuous and uninterrupted, or it may be comprised of a plurality
of separate surfaces that together define the top surface 46. The top surface 46 may be planar,
segmented, arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the base surface
38, the first and second surfaces 40, 42, and the point 44 define a border or an outline of the lug
34 having a generally arrowhead shape shown in FIGS. 2A-2B.
[00100]      With reference to FIGS. 2A-2D, according to one embodiment, the syringe port 16 of
the injector 10 (shown in FIG. 1A) has a locking mechanism 35 configured to operatively
engage the at least one syringe retaining member 32 of the syringe 12. Referring initially to
FIG. 2A, the locking mechanism 35 includes a housing 70 with a central opening 71 configured
to receive the proximal end 20 of the syringe 12. The housing 70 may be formed as part of the
housing 14 of the injector 10 (shown in FIG. 1A) or as a fitted attachment to the housing 14 of
injector 10. A first retaining ring 48 is secured to a distal end of the housing 70 such that the
central opening 71 of the housing 70 is aligned with a central opening 50 of the first retaining
ring 48. The first retaining ring 48 has a body 72 having a radially extending flange 74. At least
a portion of the body 72 extends away from the flange 74 in a proximal direction.                When
installed on the housing 70, the flange 74 engages a top portion of the housing 70 and is secured
by one or more fasteners (not shown) extending through one or more fastener openings 76. At
least a portion of the body 72 of the first retaining ring 48 is inserted into the central opening 71
of the housing 70.      In other embodiments, the first retaining ring 48 may be secured to the
housing 70 by other mechanical fastening arrangements, such as a clip, screws, adhesives,
welding, or snap fit. When installed on the housing 70, a central axis 59 of the first retaining
ring 48 is coaxial with a central axis of the housing 70.
[00101]      With continuing reference to FIG. 2A, an inner portion of a sidewall 58 within the
central opening 50 of the first retaining ring 48 has one or more first recesses 60 that are
configured to receive the one or more lugs 34 of the syringe 12 when the insertion section 30 of
the syringe 12 is inserted through the central opening 50 of the first retaining ring 48. The one
or more first recesses 60 may be evenly spaced about the inner circumference of the sidewall 58.
In such embodiments, the first recesses 60 are separated from each other by portions of the
sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48. Together, each first recess 60 and the sidewall 58 of
the first retaining ring 48 on one radially adjacent side (left or right) of the first recess 60 define

                                                  26
a clearance space 63 for receiving the syringe retaining member 32 on the syringe 12. The first
recess 60 of each clearance space 63 may be configured to receive at least one lug 34 of the
syringe retaining member 32, while the sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48 may be
configured to receive a portion of the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 when the syringe
retaining member 32 is inserted into the clearance space 63.       For example, in an embodiment
where the first retaining ring 48 has six clearance spaces 63 equally separated about the
circumference of the first retaining ring 48, each clearance space 63 is separated 60 degrees
apart from the clearance spaces 63 adjacent on either side. In such embodiments, each first
recesses 60 may extend over 30 degrees of the circumference of the first retaining ring 48 while
the portion of the sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48 that defines the remainder of the
clearance space 63 extend over the remaining 30 degrees of the circumference.               In other
embodiments, the first retaining ring 48 may include 1-5 or 7-12 or more clearance spaces 63
wherein each first recess 60 may extend over more than 30 degrees or less than 30 degrees of
the circumference of the sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48. In some embodiments, the
number of lugs 34 on the syringe 12 corresponds to the number of first recesses 60 on the
retaining ring 48. In other embodiments, the number of lugs 34 on the syringe 12 is smaller than
the number of first recesses 60 on the retaining ring 48. In such embodiments, the lugs 34 on
the syringe 12 are spaced apart along an outer circumference of the syringe barrel 18 such that
each lug 34 can be aligned with a corresponding first recess 60 on the retaining ring 48. In other
embodiments, the number of lugs 34 on the syringe 12 is higher than the number of first
recesses 60 on the retaining ring 48 such that more than one lug 34 may be received within at
least one first recess 60.
[00102]     Each of the one or more first recesses 60 extends radially outward into the inner
portion of the sidewall 58 relative to the central axis 59. The lateral surfaces of each first recess
60 define a travel path for guiding the movement of the lug 34 in and out of the first recess 60 as
the insertion section 30 of the syringe 12 is inserted into and out of the first retaining ring 48.
Each first recess 60 extends substantially parallel along a direction of the central axis 59. In
some embodiments, each first recess 60 may have one or more guiding surfaces 62 and 65 that
guide the lugs 34 into self-oriented alignment with the first recesses 60 such that the lugs 34 can
be inserted into the first recesses 60 and self-align the syringe 12 within syringe port 16 without
any guidance or effort of the technician.       The guiding surfaces 62 and 65 may be inclined
radially and axially toward an opening of the first recess 60 to self-orient and guide the
movement of the second surfaces 42 of the lugs 34. In some embodiments, the guiding surfaces
65 may be pointed axially such that a first portion of the guiding surface 65 is inclined toward

                                                 27
one of the first recesses 60 while a second portion of the guiding surface 65 is inclined toward
an adjacent first recess 60. The one or more guiding surfaces 62 and 65 aid in self-orienting the
syringe 12 as it is inserted into the syringe port 16 by guiding the one or more lugs 34 of the
syringe 12 into the corresponding one or more first recesses 60 on the syringe port 16. In this
manner, a syringe 12 whose longitudinal axis 15 may be axially misaligned with the axis 59 of
the syringe port 16 and the one or more lugs 34 which may be initially misaligned with the
corresponding one or more first recesses 60 in a rotational direction about the longitudinal axis
15 of the syringe 12 are brought in alignment axially with the syringe port 16 and rotationally
with the one or more first recesses 60 by interaction of at least the second surfaces 42 of the lugs
34 and the one or more guiding surfaces 62 and 65. The one or more first recesses 60 may have
a bottom surface 67 that is substantially perpendicular to the central axis 59.            In some
embodiments, the bottom surface 67 may be angled or tapered in a radial direction.
[00103]      With continued reference to the embodiment in FIG. 2A, the locking mechanism 35
may further include a second retaining ring 78 having a substantially annular shape with an
inner sidewall 80. The second retaining ring 78 is disposed within the central opening 71 of the
housing 70 between a proximal end of the body 72 of the first retaining ring 48 and a bottom 82
of the housing 70. As detailed further herein, the second retaining ring 78 is rotatable relative to
the first retaining ring 48 and the housing 70, which are fixed relative to each other. The second
retaining ring 78 may have one or more first locking elements 84 and, optionally, one or more
second locking elements 86 disposed on at least a portion of the inner sidewall 80. The one or
more first and second locking elements 84, 86 may be arranged in an alternating manner such
that each first locking element 84 has a second locking element 86 provided on either side of it
along the circumference of the inner sidewall 80. In other embodiments, at least one second
locking element 86 is provided for a plurality of first locking elements 84.              In some
embodiments, the total number of first and second locking elements 84, 86 may correspond to
the total number of first recesses 60 and/or the at least one syringe retaining member 32 of the
syringe 12. In other embodiments, the total number of first and second locking elements 84, 86
may correspond to a multiple or fraction of the number of at least one syringe retaining
members 32 of the syringe 12.
[00104]      The one or more first and second locking elements 84, 86 extend radially outward
from the inner sidewall 80 of the second retaining ring 78 and are separated by one or more
second recesses 88. The one or more second recesses 88 are configured to receive the one or
more lugs 34 of the syringe 12 when the insertion section 30 of the syringe 12 is inserted

                                                 28
through the central opening 50 of the first retaining ring 48. The one or more second recesses
88 are arranged around a circumference of the inner sidewall 80 of the second retaining ring 78
such that the one or more second recesses 88 may be selectively aligned with the one or more
first recesses 60 on the first retaining ring 48. For example, in an embodiment where the first
retaining ring 48 has six first recesses 60 equally separated about the housing 70, the second
retaining ring 78 may also have six second recesses 88 equally separated apart (i.e., separated by
60 degrees) from the second recesses 88 adjacent on either side.
[00105]      With reference to FIG. 2B, the one or more first locking elements 84 have a first
inclined surface 90 configured for engaging at least the second surface 42 of the at least one lug
34. The first inclined surface 90 may be linear, segmented, curved, or a combination thereof.
The one or more first locking elements 84 may have a second inclined surface 92 additionally
configured to engage at least one of the point 44, the first surface 40, and/or the second surface
42 of the lugs 34. Similarly, the one or more second locking elements 86 may have a second
inclined surface 92 configured to engage at least one of the point 44, the first surface 40, and/or
the second surface 42 of the lugs 34. The second inclined surface 92 may be linear, segmented,
curved, or a combination thereof. The first inclined surface 90 on the one or more second
locking elements 86 may transition to a linear top surface 94 that is substantially parallel to a top
surface of the second retaining ring 78. The angle and profile of the first inclined surface 90 of
the one or more first locking elements 84 may be the same as or different than the second
inclined surface 92 of the locking elements 84 and 86.        In some embodiments, only a first
inclined surface 90 may be provided in linear, segmented, curved, or combination form.
[00106]     With continuing reference to FIGS. 2C-2B, the one or more first locking elements 84
may extend higher along the inner sidewall 80 relative to the one or more second locking
elements 86. The linear top surface 94 of the one or more second locking elements 86 may be
positioned lower relative to the top of the one or more first locking elements 84 in order to
accommodate the relative sliding movement of one or more locking tabs 96 extending
proximally from the first retaining ring 48. The one or more locking tabs 96 define a rotational
stop surface for one or more lugs 34 once the syringe 12 is inserted into the syringe port 16. In
other embodiments, the one or more locking tabs 96 may be provided separately from the one or
more second locking elements 86. In some embodiments, the one or more locking tabs 96 may
be provided on the syringe and/or at least one of the lugs 34, as described herein.
[00107]     With reference to FIG. 2D, the second retaining ring 78 is rotatably retained within
the housing 70. At least one guide pin 98 extends in a proximal direction from a bottom surface

                                                  29
of the second retaining ring 78. The at least one guide pin 98 is received inside at least one
guide pin slot 101 formed on the bottom 82 of the housing 70. The at least one guide pin slot
101 may extend over a portion of a circumference of the bottom 82 (see FIG. 2A). At least one
elastically resilient member 102 (shown in FIG. 2A), such as a spring, is connected to or in
contact with at least a portion of the second retaining ring 78 and with at least a portion of the
housing 70. In one embodiment, the elastically resilient member 102 may be connected to or in
contact with at one end of the at least one guide pin 98, while the opposing end of the elastically
resilient member 102 may be connected to or in contact with an end of the at least one guide pin
slot 101. The at least one elastically resilient member 102 (shown in FIG. 2A) urges the second
retaining ring 78 to a first position (see FIG. 2B) wherein the one or more first recesses 60 are
not aligned with the one or more second recesses 88.         By inserting the syringe 12 into the
syringe port 16, the one or more lugs 34 engage the one or more first and second locking
elements 84, 86 to rotate the second retaining ring 78 to a second position and allow the
insertion of the one or more lugs 34 into the one or more second recesses 88, as described
herein.
[00108]     To insert the syringe 12 into the syringe port 16, the insertion section 30 of the
syringe 12 is urged into contact with the first retaining ring 48.      If the lugs 34 are initially
misaligned relative to the first recesses 60, guiding surfaces, for example the point 44 and/or at
least one first surface 40 and/or at least one second surface 42 on the one or more lugs 34 and
the guiding surfaces 62, 65 on the locking mechanism 35, guide the lugs 34 toward self
alignment with the first recesses 60 as the insertion section 30 is moved proximally relative to
the retaining ring 48.    Continued proximal movement of the syringe 12 relative to the first
retaining ring 48 causes the lugs 34 to be guided into the first recesses 60 until at least a portion
of one or more of the lugs 34 is brought into contact with the one or more first and second
locking elements 84, 86 of the second retaining ring 78. The first and second inclined surfaces
90, 92 are configured for engaging at least one of the lug 34 surfaces 40, 42, or the point 44.
Continued proximal movement of the syringe 12 relative the first retaining ring 48 causes the
lugs 34 to exert a proximally directed force on the first and/or second inclined surfaces 90, 92
and thus on second retaining ring 78. As the second retaining ring 78 is prevented from moving
proximally by the housing 70 and because of the slope or taper on the first and second inclined
surfaces 90, 92 and/or the point 44 and/or at least one first surface 40 and/or at least one second
surface 42 on the lug 34, the proximal movement creates a force which has a component in the
rotational direction which acts against the restoring force of the at least one elastically resilient
member 102 to rotate the second retaining ring 78 from the first position shown in FIG. 2B to a

                                                  30
second position where the one or more first recesses 60 are aligned with the one or more second
recesses 88. In this embodiment, the point 44 and/or at least one first surface 40 and/or at least
one second surface 42 on the lug 34 are the opening surfaces which force open the locking or
attachment mechanism 35. The one or more lugs 34 may cause the second retaining ring 78 to
rotate in the first direction, such as a clockwise or a counterclockwise direction. As the second
retaining ring 78 is rotated during a proximal movement of the syringe 12 within the syringe
port 16, the one or more lugs 34 are guided into the corresponding one or more second recesses
88 until the point 44 of the lugs 34 engages a bottom or stop surface of the one or more second
recesses 88. As the operator releases the syringe 12, under the restoring action of the elastically
resilient member 102, the second retaining ring 78 is rotated in the second direction, which is
opposite to the first direction, from the second position back to the first position. According to
certain embodiments, rotation of the second retaining ring 78 relative to the housing 70 causes
the syringe 12 to rotate therewith until the one or more lugs 34 are secured behind one or more
retention surfaces 64 of the first retaining ring 48 and engage the one or more locking tabs 96.
In this example embodiment, the first surface 40 is the rotational stop surface which interacts
with locking tab 96. In some embodiments, movement of the second retaining ring 78 may be
limited by the position of the one or more guide pins 98 within the one or more guide pin slots
101. Alternatively, one or more first and second locking elements 84, 86 of the second retaining
ring 78 could interact with one or more elements on first retaining ring 48, for example an
extension of one or more locking tabs 96 to limit the rotation of the second retaining ring 78. As
the second retaining ring 78, along with the syringe 12, is rotated to the first position, the one or
more second recesses 88 are offset relative to the one or more first recesses 60 such that removal
of the syringe 12 in the distal direction is prevented by one or more retention surfaces 64 of the
first retaining ring 48 interacting with one or more base surfaces 38 of one or more lugs 34.
[00109]      In another embodiment, the elastically resilient member 102 continues to exert a
torque to close or hold the lug 34 against locking tab 96. In some embodiments, second inclined
surface 92 continues to be urged against the second surface 42 of the lug 34.                In such
embodiments, because the syringe 12 can rotate no further, the force between the two surfaces
urges the syringe 12 distally, pushing the one or more base surfaces 38 against the one or more
retention surfaces 64. This has the benefit of taking up the mechanical slack, slop, or clearances
that are needed to allow free motion of the syringe 12 during installation and removal. The
strength of the torque, the slopes/tapers of the surfaces, and the friction involved can be adjusted
to lock the syringe 12 tightly enough that minimal reverse or proximal motion will happen
during the filling of a syringe 12. An audible and/or tactile feedback may be provided when the

                                                  31
syringe 12 is seated and locked within the syringe port 16. The audible and/or tactile feedback
may be generated by an interaction of any surface on the syringe 12 with a corresponding
surface on the syringe port 16 when the syringe 12 is in the locked position. For example,
audible and/or tactile feedback may be generated by an interaction of at least one surface on the
lug 34, such as the point 44 and/or at least one first surface 40 and/or at least one second surface
42, with at least a portion of the locking mechanism 35. The rotation of the syringe 12 due to
the force of the elastically resilient member 102 during engagement may produce a tactile
feedback.
[00110]     To unlock and remove the syringe 12 from the syringe port 16, the syringe 12 is
rotated relative to the first retaining ring 48 about the central axis 59 against the restoring force
of the elastically resilient member 102. For example, if the syringe 12 is locked within the
syringe port 16 by rotating the syringe 12 in a clockwise direction, the syringe 12 may be
unlocked by rotating the syringe 12 in a counterclockwise direction. Rotation of the syringe 12
aligns the second recesses 88 with the first recesses 60. The syringe 12 can then be
removed/ejected from the syringe port 16 by movement of the syringe 12 in a distal direction.
In the process of turning the syringe 12 and thus rotating the second retaining ring 78 against the
force of the elastically resilient member 102, the at least one second surface 42 or the point 44
on the syringe 12 and the first and/or second inclined surface 90, 92 on the second retaining ring
78 interact to create a distally directed force on the syringe 12 to eject/urge the syringe 12 out of
syringe port 16. When a syringe 12 is released, unlatched, or disengaged, the syringe 12 is free
to be removed or pulled from the syringe port 16 by the user. In some embodiments of the
present disclosure, when the syringe 12 is released from the syringe port 16, there is an axial
force ejecting, pushing, urging or moving the syringe 12 distally out of the syringe port 16
without any guidance or effort by the technician. In certain embodiments, this force or motion
may not necessarily be sufficient to fully eject the syringe 12 all the way out of the syringe port
16, however, the force or motion may be sufficient so that the user has a tactile indication or
feedback that the rotation is sufficient for release and the syringe 12 may be more readily
removed from the syringe port 16. For example, rotation of the syringe barrel 18 may cause the
point 44 on the lug 34 to slide along the surface in a distal direction along the surface of the first
and/or second inclined surface 90, 92 on the second retaining ring 78. When the base surface 38
of the one or more lugs 34 clears the corresponding one or more retention surfaces 64 on the
second retaining ring 78, the distally directed force causes the syringe 12 to be urged distally
and, if allowed, be ejected to a first position out of the syringe port 16, indicating to the operator
that the syringe 12 has been fully released and can be removed from the syringe port 16. As the

                                                  32
syringe 12 is removed from the syringe port 16, the restoring force of the elastically resilient
member 102 causes the second retaining ring 78 to return to the first position for a subsequent
insertion of the new syringe 12. In the embodiment shown in FIGS 2A-2D, the syringe 12 may
be rotated 30 degrees or less about the longitudinal axis 15 to disengage the syringe 12 for
removal from the syringe port 16.
[00111]     The operation of the locking mechanism 35 can be further explained through the
interaction of the retention surfaces of the syringe 12 and syringe port 16 that cooperate to retain
the syringe 12 in the syringe port 16 once one or more of the base surfaces 38 of the syringe 12
is engaged with the one or more retention surfaces 64 of the first retaining ring 48. The guiding
surfaces of the syringe 12 and syringe port 16 that cooperate to self-align or automatically
rotationally align the syringe 12 and the syringe port 16 for self-oriented installation of the
syringe 12 include the one or more second surfaces 42 and/or point 44 of the syringe 12 and the
one or more guiding surfaces 65 of the syringe port 16. The opening surfaces of the syringe 12
and syringe port 16 that cooperate to open the syringe port 16 for the installation of the syringe
12 include the one or more second surfaces 42 of the syringe 12 and one or more of the first
and/or second inclined surfaces 90, 92 of the syringe port 16.       The tightening surfaces of the
syringe 12 and syringe port 16 that cooperate to take up the mechanical slack or tolerances
include one or more surfaces 38, 40, 42 of the syringe 12 and/or surfaces 64, 96, 90, 92 of
syringe port 16. The detachment surfaces of the syringe 12 and syringe port 16 that cooperate to
disengage or remove the syringe 12 from the syringe port 16 include surfaces 42 of the syringe
16 and surfaces 90, 92 of the syringe port 16.        The ejection surfaces of the syringe 12 and
syringe port 16 that cooperate to create a distally directed force to urge ejection of the syringe 12
from syringe port 16 include the second surfaces 42 of the syringe 12 and second inclined
surfaces 92 of the syringe port 16. The rotational stop surfaces of the syringe 12 and syringe
port 16 that cooperate to prevent rotation as a luer connector is screwed onto the syringe 12
include the one or more first surfaces 40 of the syringe 12 and the one or more locking tabs 96
of the syringe port 16, as well as any frictional force between the one or more base surfaces 38
of the syringe 12 and the one or more retention surfaces 64 of the syringe port 16. The syringe
clearance surface(s), which allow the syringe to fit into the syringe port 16, include outer surface
21 of the barrel 18 on one radially adjacent side (left or right) of the lug 34 which clear the
sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48.
[00112]     With reference to FIGS. 3A-3B, a connection interface 100 for loading and removing
the at least one syringe 12 from the at least one syringe port 16 of the injector 10 is shown in

                                                 33
accordance with another embodiment. The syringe 12 and the injector 10 include the connection
interface 100 having at least one syringe retaining member 32 provided on the syringe 12 and a
corresponding locking mechanism 35 provided on the syringe port 16 of the injector 10.
[00113]     With reference to FIGS. 3A-3B, the syringe 12 generally has a cylindrical syringe
barrel 18 formed from glass or a suitable medical-grade plastic. The barrel 18 has a proximal
end 20 and a distal end 24, with a substantially cylindrical sidewall 19 (shown in FIG. 3B)
extending therebetween along a length of a longitudinal axis 15 extending through a center of
the barrel 18. A nozzle 22 extends from the distal end 24 of the barrel 18. The barrel 18 has an
outer surface 21 and an inner surface 23 (shown in FIG. 3B) that defines an interior volume 25
(shown in FIG. 3B) configured for receiving a medical fluid therein.
[00114]     A drip flange 36 may optionally extend radially outward from the outer surface 21 of
the syringe barrel 18 relative to the longitudinal axis 15. The drip flange 36 may extend around
at least a portion of the outer circumference of the barrel 18. In one embodiment, the drip flange
36 is positioned distally along the longitudinal axis 15 relative to the syringe retaining member
32. The drip flange 36 may be configured to prevent fluid that drips from the nozzle 22 from
entering the syringe port 16 on the injector 10. In this manner, the drip flange 36 helps reduce
the amount of fluid that may enter the syringe port 16 and jam or interfere with the connection
interface 100 and/or the interior mechanics and electronics of the injector 10 (shown in FIG.
1A). In some embodiments, the drip flange 36 defines a stop surface that delimits the insertion
section 30 of the syringe 12. The drip flange 36 may be formed integrally with the barrel 18 or
it may be affixed or otherwise secured to the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 using, for
example, a frictional fit and/or an adhesive. In other embodiments, the drip flange 36 may be
formed on the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 by etching, laser cutting, machining, or molding.
[00115]     With continued reference to FIGS. 3A-3B, the proximal end 20 of the syringe 12 is
sized and adapted to be inserted in the syringe port 16 of the injector 10 (shown in FIG. 1A). In
some embodiments, the proximal end 20 of the syringe 12 defines an insertion section 30 that is
configured to be removably inserted into the syringe port 16 of the injector 10 while the
remaining portion of the syringe 12 remains outside of the syringe port 16. One or more syringe
retaining members 32 are provided on or near the proximal end 20 of the syringe barrel 18 as
described herein, for forming a locking engagement with a corresponding locking mechanism 35
in the syringe port 16 according to the embodiment shown in FIGS. 3A-3B. For example, the
one or more syringe retaining member 32 may be provided on an outer surface 21 of the syringe
barrel 18. The syringe retaining member 32 may be formed integrally with the barrel 18 or it

                                                 34
may be affixed or otherwise secured to the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 using, for example,
a frictional fit, welding, and/or an adhesive.       In other embodiments, the syringe retaining
member 32 may be formed on the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 by etching, laser cutting,
machining, or molding.      The combination of the syringe 12 having the one or more syringe
retaining members 32 and the locking mechanism 35 of the injector 10 (shown in FIG. 1A)
defines a connection interface for loading and unloading of the syringe 12 to and from the
injector 10. In some embodiments, the one or more syringe retaining members 32 cooperate
with at least a portion of the locking mechanism 35 to self-orient the syringe 12 relative to the
syringe port 16 such that the syringe 12 may be releasably locked with the syringe port 16.
[00116]     In the embodiment shown in FIGS. 3A-3B, the at least one syringe retaining member
32 is formed as one or more first lugs 34 and optionally one or more second lugs 37 that
protrude radially outwardly from the outer surface 21 of the syringe barrel 18 relative to the
longitudinal axis 15. The one or more first lugs 34 and/or one or more second lugs 37 protrude
radially outwardly from the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 in a direction substantially
perpendicular to the outer surface 21.   In embodiments where more than two first and/or second
lugs 34, 37 are provided, the first and second lugs 34, 37 may be evenly or unevenly spaced
apart in a radial direction about an outer circumference of the barrel 18. In such embodiments,
the first and second lugs 34, 37 are separated from each other by portions of the outer surface 21
of the barrel 18. Together, each first or second lug 34, 37 and the outer surface 21 of the barrel
18 on one radially adjacent side (left or right) of the first or second lug 34, 37 define the syringe
retaining member 32. In some embodiments, a plurality of first and/or second lugs 34, 37 may
be clustered and separated radially about the circumference of the barrel 18 from one or more
adjacent clusters of first or second lugs 34, 37. For example, in an embodiment with six syringe
retaining members 32 having equal angular separation therebetween, each syringe retaining
member 32 extends over 60 degrees and is therefore separated by 60 degrees from the syringe
retaining member 32 adjacent on either side. In such an embodiment, each first or second lug
34, 37 may extend over 30 degrees of the circumference of the barrel 18, while the portion of
the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 that defines the remainder of the syringe retaining member
32 extends over the remaining 30 degrees of the circumference. In other embodiments, each
first or second lug 34, 37 may extend over more than 30 degrees or less than 30 degrees of the
circumference of the barrel 18. In some embodiments, the syringe retaining members 32 may
have unequal angular extension and/or unequal angular spacing between the syringe retaining
members 32 about the outer circumference of the barrel 18. The one or more first lugs 34 are
offset longitudinally along the longitudinal axis 15 relative to the one or more second lugs 37.

                                                  35
In one embodiment, the one or more first lugs 34 are positioned closer to the proximal end 20
than the one or more second lugs 37.         In other embodiments, one or more first lugs 34 are
aligned longitudinally with the one or more second lugs 37 along the longitudinal axis 15 such
that at least a portion of the one or more first lugs 34 is at a same longitudinal distance from the
proximal end 20 as at least a portion of the one or more second lugs 37. In an embodiment in
which one or more lugs 34 or 37 are absent, the corresponding retaining member 32 may be
defined as the clearance surface(s), which is the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 between
adjacent lugs 34, 37. While embodiments having each syringe retaining member 32 extending
over 60 degrees are exemplified in the attached drawings, syringes with retaining members 32
having other angles of separation, for example 360/x degrees where x is value from 1 and 36,
are also within the scope of the present disclosure.
[00117]      With continuing reference to FIG. 3A, each of the one or more first lugs 34 may have
a generally triangular, polygonal, or arrowhead shape or alternatively may be shaped according
to FIGS. 5A-Z or 10A-H. Each of the one or more first lugs 34 has a base surface 38 that may
be substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis 15 of the barrel 18.                In some
embodiments, the base surface 38 may be angled relative to the direction of the longitudinal axis
15 in a radial cross-sectional plane. In other embodiments, the base surface 38 may be angled
relative to the direction of the longitudinal axis 15 as it extends around the outer circumference
of the barrel 18 in a radial cross-sectional plane. The base surface 38 may be planar, segmented,
arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the base surface 38 may have
a plurality of individual sections that together define the base surface 38.        The plurality of
individual sections of the base surface 38 may define a surface that may be planar, segmented,
arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof.
[00118]      In certain embodiments, at least one first surface 40 may extend on one end of the
base surface 38 in a direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis 15.           In some
embodiments, at least one first surface 40 may be tapered axially relative to the longitudinal axis
15 in a proximal or a distal direction of the longitudinal axis 15.     The axial tapering of the at
least one first surface 40 relative to the longitudinal axis 15 may be defined as an angle of
inclination of the first surface 40 in a cylindrical plan projection view in a direction from the
distal end 24 toward the proximal end 20. The at least one first surface 40 may be directly
connected with the base surface 38. In some embodiments, at least one first surface 40 may be
disconnected from the base surface 38.          The at least one first surface 40 may be planar,
segmented, arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the at least one

                                                 36
first surface 40 may have a plurality of individual sections that together define the at least one
first surface 40. The plurality of individual sections of the at least one first surface 40 may
define a surface that may be planar, segmented, arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof.
[00119]       At least one second surface 40' may extend on one end of the base surface 38
opposite the first surface 40 in a direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis 15. In
some embodiments, at least one second surface 40' may be tapered axially relative to the
longitudinal axis 15 in a proximal or a distal direction of the longitudinal axis 15. The axial
tapering of the at least one second surface 40' relative to the longitudinal axis 15 may be defined
as an angle of inclination of the first surface 40 in a cylindrical plan projection view in a
direction from the distal end 24 toward the proximal end 20. The at least one second surface 40'
may be directly connected with the base surface 38. In some embodiments, at least one second
surface 40' may be disconnected from the base surface 38. The at least one second surface 40'
may be planar, segmented, arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the
at least one second surface 40' may have a plurality of individual sections that together define
the at least one second surface 40'. The plurality of individual sections of the at least one
second surface 40' may define a surface that may be planar, segmented, arcuate, curved, or a
combination thereof.
[00120]      In some embodiments, at least one third surface 42 extends from one end of the
second surface 40' to the end of the first surface 40. The at least one third surface 42 may be
tapered axially relative to the longitudinal axis 15 in a proximal or a distal direction of the
longitudinal axis 15. In some embodiments, at least one third surface 42 may be tapered axially
relative to the longitudinal axis 15 in a proximal direction. The axial tapering of the at least one
third surface 42 relative to the longitudinal axis 15 may be defined as an angle of inclination of
the at least one third surface 42 in a cylindrical plan projection view in a direction from the
distal end 24 toward the proximal end 20. The at least one third surface 42 and the at least one
first surface 40 may join together at a rounded or a sharp point 44. The at least one third surface
42 may be directly connected with at least one of the first surfaces 40 at the point 44. In some
embodiments, at least one third surface 42 may be disconnected from at least one of the first
surfaces 40 at the point 44. In some embodiments, the point 44 may be disconnected from the at
least one third surface 42 and the first surface 40. The at least one third surface 42 may be
planar, segmented, arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the at least
one third surface 42 may have a plurality of individual sections that together define the at least

                                                  37
one third surface 42. The plurality of individual sections of the at least one third surface 42 may
define a surface that may be planar, segmented, arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof.
[00121]     The base surface 38 and the first, second, and third surfaces 40, 40', 42 define a top
surface 46 of each of the one or more first lugs 34. In some embodiments, the top surface 46
may be shaped to correspond to the curvature of the syringe barrel 18. In other embodiments,
the top surface 46 of one or more of the lugs 34 may be angled relative to the outer surface 21 of
the syringe barrel 18 such that a first end of the top surface 46 is higher than a second end of the
top surface 46 relative to the syringe barrel 18.      The top surface 46 may be continuous and
uninterrupted, or it may be comprised of a plurality of separate surfaces that together define the
top surface 46. The top surface 46 may be planar, segmented, arcuate, curved, or a combination
thereof.
[00122]     Each of the one or more second lugs 37 may be formed as a projection that extends
radially outward from the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18.      The one or more second lugs 37
optionally have an inclined release member 104 that extends from the outer surface 21 of the
barrel 18 to the top surface 106 of the at least one second lug 37 in a direction of the
circumference of the barrel 18. If present, the inclined release member 104 may facilitate the
molding of the syringe 12 in a simple two part mold. In some embodiments, the top surface 106
may be shaped to correspond to the curvature of the syringe barrel 18. In other embodiments,
the top surface 106 may be angled relative to the outer surface 21 of the syringe barrel 18. The
top surface 106 may be continuous and uninterrupted, or it may be comprised of a plurality of
separate surfaces that together define the top surface 106. The top surface 106 may be planar,
segmented, arcuate, curved, or a combination thereof.           The release member 104 may be
configured to engage a third retaining ring 108 to release the syringe 12 from the syringe port
16, as described herein.
[00123]     With continuing reference to FIG. 3A, the at least one syringe port 16 of the injector
10 (shown in FIG. 1A) has a locking mechanism 35 configured to operatively engage the at least
one syringe retaining member 32 of the syringe 12.          The locking mechanism 35 includes a
housing 70 having a substantially circular shape with a central opening 71 configured to receive
the proximal end 20 of the syringe 12. The housing 70 may be formed as part of the housing 14
of the injector 10 (shown in FIG. 1A) or as a fitted attachment of the housing 14 of the injector
10. A first retaining ring 48 is secured to a distal end of the housing 70 such that the central
opening 71 of the housing 70 is aligned with a central opening 50 of the first retaining ring 48.
The first retaining ring 48 has a body 72 having a radially extending flange 74. At least a

                                                 38
portion of the body 72 extends away from the flange 74 in a proximal direction. When installed
on the housing 70, the flange 74 engages a top portion of the housing 70 and is secured by one
or more fasteners (not shown) extending through one or more fastener openings 76. At least a
portion of the body 72 of the first retaining ring 48 is inserted into the central opening 71 of the
housing 70. In other embodiments, the first retaining ring 48 may be secured to the housing 70
by other mechanical fastening arrangement, such as a clip or snap fit. When installed on the
housing 70, the central axis 59 of the first retaining ring 48 is coaxial with a central axis of the
housing 70.
[00124]      With continuing reference to FIG. 3A, an inner portion of a sidewall 58 within the
central opening 50 of the first retaining ring 48 has one or more first recesses 60 that are
configured to receive the one or more first lugs 34 of the syringe 12 when the insertion section
30 of the syringe 12 is inserted through the central opening 50 of the first retaining ring 48. The
one or more first recesses 60 may be evenly spaced about the inner circumference of the
sidewall 58. In such embodiments, the first recesses 60 are separated from each other by
portions of the sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48. Together, each first recess 60 and the
sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48 on one radially adjacent side (left or right) of the first
recess 60 define a clearance space 63 for receiving the syringe retaining member 32 on the
syringe 12. The first recess 60 of each clearance space 63 may be configured to receive at least
one first lug 34 or the second lug 37 of the syringe retaining member 32, while the sidewall 58
of the first retaining ring 48 may be configured to receive a portion of the sidewall 19 of the
barrel 18 when the syringe retaining member 32 is inserted into the clearance space 63. For
example, in an embodiment where the first retaining ring 48 has six clearance spaces 63 equally
separated about the circumference of the first retaining ring 48, each clearance space 63 is
separated 60 degrees apart from the clearance spaces 63 adjacent on either side. In such
embodiments, each first recesses 60 may extend over 30 degrees of the circumference of the
first retaining ring 48 while the portion of the sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48 that
defines the remainder of the clearance space 63 extends over the remaining 30 degrees of the
circumference. In other embodiments, the first retaining ring 48 may include 1-5 or 7-12 or
more clearance spaces 63 wherein each first recess 60 may extend over more than 30 degrees or
less than 30 degrees of the circumference of the sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48. In
some embodiments, the number of first and second lugs 34, 37 on the syringe 12 corresponds to
the number of first recesses 60 on the retaining ring 48. In other embodiments, the number of
first and second lugs 34, 37 on the syringe 12 is smaller than the number of first recesses 60 on
the retaining ring 48. In such embodiments, the first and second lugs 34, 37 on the syringe 12

                                                  39
are spaced apart along an outer circumference of the syringe barrel 18 such that each first or
second lug 34, 37 can be aligned with a corresponding first recess 60 on the retaining ring 48.
In other embodiments, the number of first and second lugs 34, 37 on the syringe 12 is higher
than the number of first recesses 60 on the retaining ring 48 such that more than one first and
second lugs 34, 37 may be received within at least one first recess 60. For example, the first or
second lug 34, 37 may be formed as a collection of lugs, either in one lug position or spread
over two or more lug positions which operate together to perform one or more of the functions
herein attributed to the first or second lugs 34, 37 or any surface thereof.
[00125]      Each of the one or more first recesses 60 extends radially outward into the inner
portion of the sidewall 58 relative to the central axis 59. The lateral surfaces of each first recess
60 define a travel path for guiding the movement of the first and second lugs 34, 37 in and out of
the first recess 60 as the insertion section 30 of the syringe 12 is inserted into and out of the first
retaining ring 48. Each first recess 60 extends substantially parallel along a direction of the
central axis 59. In some embodiments, each first recess 60 may have one or more guiding
surfaces 62 that guide the first and second lugs 34, 37 into self-alignment with the first recesses
60 such that the first and second lugs 34, 37 can be inserted into the first recesses 60 and self
align the syringe 12 within syringe port 16 without any guidance or effort by the technician.
The guiding surfaces 62 may be inclined to toward an opening of the first recess 60 to guide the
movement of the first and second lugs 34, 37. In this manner, the one or more first and second
lugs 34, 37 which may be initially misaligned relative to the corresponding one or more recesses
60 are brought in self-alignment with the one or more recesses 60 by the one or more guiding
surfaces 62.
[00126]      With continued reference to the embodiment in FIG. 3A, the locking mechanism 35
further includes a second retaining ring 78 having a substantially annular shape with an inner
sidewall 80. The second retaining ring 78 is disposed within the central opening 71 of the
housing 70 between a proximal end of the body 72 of the first retaining ring 48 and a bottom 82
of the housing 70. As detailed further herein, the second retaining ring 78 is rotationally
movable and axially fixed relative to the first retaining ring 48 and the housing 70. The second
retaining ring 78 has one or more second recesses 88. The one or more second recesses 88 are
configured to receive the one or more first and second lugs 34, 37 of the syringe 12 when the
insertion section 30 of the syringe 12 is inserted through the central opening 50 of the first
retaining ring 48. The one or more second recesses 88 are arranged around a circumference of
the inner sidewall 80 of the second retaining ring 78 such that the one or more second recesses

                                                  40
88 are aligned with the one or more first recesses 60 on the first retaining ring 48. For example,
in an embodiment where the first retaining ring 48 has six first recesses 60, the second retaining
ring 78 may also have six second recesses 88 separated 60 degrees apart each other.               The
rotational movement of the second retaining ring 48 may be guided and constrained by one or
more proximal pins 98' and/or one or more elastically resilient members 102' housed in one or
more slots in housing 70.
[00127]      With continued reference to FIG. 3A, the locking mechanism 35 may further include
a third retaining ring 108 having a substantially annular shape with an inner sidewall 110. The
third retaining ring 108 is disposed within the central opening 71 of the housing 70 between the
first retaining ring 48 and the second retaining ring 78. As detailed further herein, the third
retaining ring 108 is rotatable relative to the first retaining ring 48, the second retaining ring 78,
and the housing 70, which are all fixed relative to each other. The third retaining ring 108 has
one or more locking elements 112 disposed on at least a portion of the inner sidewall 110. The
one or more locking elements 112 extend radially outward relative to the inner sidewall 110 and
are arranged in an alternating manner such that each locking element 112 is separated by a third
recess 114.
[00128]      The one or more locking elements 112 have an inclined surface 116 configured for
selectively engaging the third surface 42 of the one or more first lugs 34. The inclined surface
116 may be linear, segmented, curved, or a combination thereof.
[00129]      With continued reference to FIG. 3A, the third retaining ring 108 is rotatably retained
within the housing 70. At least one guide pin 98 extends from the third retaining ring 108 and is
received inside at least one guide pin slot 101 (not shown) formed on one or both of the first and
second retaining rings 48, 78. At least one elastically resilient member 102, such as a spring, is
connected at one end to at least a portion of the third retaining ring 108 and to at least a portion
of one or both of the first and second retaining rings 48, 78. In one embodiment, the elastically
resilient member 102 may be connected at one end to the at least one guide pin 98, while the
opposing end of the elastically resilient member 102 may be connected to the at least one guide
pin slot 101. The at least one elastically resilient member 102 urges the third retaining ring 108
to a first position. By inserting the syringe 12 into the syringe port 16 in a proximal direction,
the opening surface, in this embodiment the third surface 42 of one or more lugs 34, engages the
one or more locking elements 112 to rotate the third retaining ring 108 to a second position
where the at least one third recess 114 is aligned with at least one first recess 60 and at least one
second 88. Once the second surface 40' on the first lug 34 clears the inclined surface 116 of the

                                                  41
locking element 112, the third retaining ring 108 rotates in the opposite direction back to its
initial first position and locks the syringe 12 within the syringe port 16 where base surface 38 is
retained proximal to locking element 112, as described herein.           An audible and/or tactile
feedback may be provided when the syringe 12 is locked within the syringe port 16, for example
by the movement of the third retaining ring 108 to the first position.
[00130]       To insert the syringe 12 into the syringe port 16, the insertion section 30 of the
syringe 12 is urged into contact with the first retaining ring 48, such as shown in FIG. 3D. If the
first and second lugs 34, 37 are initially misaligned relative the first recesses 60, the guiding
surfaces 65 guide the first and second lugs 34, 37 toward self-alignment with the first recesses
60 as the insertion section 30 is moved proximally relative to the first retaining ring 48.
Continued proximal movement of the syringe 12 relative the first retaining ring 48 causes the
first and second lugs 34, 37 to be guided within the first recesses 60 until at least a portion of the
third surface 40' of one or more of the first lugs 34 is brought into contact with the inclined
surface 116 of the one or more locking elements 112 of the third retaining ring 108.               The
inclined surface 116 is configured for engaging the second surface 40' of the first lugs 34. As
shown in FIG. 3D, continued proximal movement of the syringe 12 relative the first retaining
ring 48 causes the first lugs 34 to act against the restoring force of the at least one elastically
resilient member 102 to rotate the third retaining ring 108 from the first position shown in FIG.
3D to a second position shown in FIG. 3E. The one or more first lugs 34 may cause the third
retaining ring 108 to rotate in a first direction, such as a clockwise or a counterclockwise
direction. As the third retaining ring 108 is rotated during a proximal movement of the syringe
12 within the syringe port 16, the one or more first lugs 34 and second lugs 37 are guided into
the corresponding one or more second recesses 88 until the base surface 38 of all the first and
second lugs 34, 37 clear the bottom portion of the third retaining ring 108. Under the restoring
action of the elastically resilient member 102, the third retaining ring 108 is rotated in a second
direction which is opposite to the first direction. Rotation of the third retaining ring 108 relative
to the housing 70 causes the locking elements 112 to be positioned over the one or more first
and second lugs 34, 37 such that removal of the syringe 12 in the distal direction is prevented.
[00131]       To unlock the syringe 12 from the syringe port 16, the syringe 12 is rotated in a first
direction around the longitudinal axis 15, as shown in FIG. 3F. The rotational movement of the
syringe 12 causes the third surface 42 of the first lugs 34 to bear against the first inclined surface
90 of the second retaining ring 78 and rotate the second retaining ring 78 against the force of its
resilient member 102' (shown in FIG. 2A). After a rotation, for example of approximately 30

                                                   42
degrees, the guide pin 98 on the second retaining ring 78 engages the third retaining ring 108 to
cause it to also rotate in the first direction. After additional rotation, for example approximately
another 30 degrees of rotation, the first and second lugs 34, 37 line up with the first recesses 60
of the first retaining ring 48, and the locking elements 112 on the third retaining ring 108 move
away to clear the space proximal to the first recesses 60 such that the at least one first recesses
60 are aligned with the at least one third 114, as shown in FIG. 3G. At this point, the distally
directed force component created by the rotational movement of the third surface 42 of the first
lugs 34 against the first inclined surface 90 causes the syringe 12 to move distally and eject from
the syringe port 16, as shown in FIG. 3H. As the syringe 12 is ejected from the syringe port 16,
the restoring force of the elastically resilient members 102 and 102' cause the third retaining
ring 108 and the second retaining ring 78 to return to their respective first positions by rotating
in a second direction in preparation for a subsequent insertion of a new syringe 12.
[00132]      The operation of the locking mechanism 35 can be further discussed with reference
to the retention surfaces of the syringe 12 and syringe port 16 that cooperate to retain the syringe
12 in the syringe port 16 once it is engaged are one or more base surfaces 38 and top surfaces
106 of the syringe 12 and the one or more surfaces of the locking elements 112 of the syringe
port 16. The guiding surfaces of the syringe 12 and syringe port 16 that cooperate to self-align
or automatically rotationally align the syringe 12 and the syringe port 16 for installation are the
one or more points 44 and/or third surfaces 42 of the syringe 12 and the one or more guiding
surfaces 65 of the syringe port 16. The opening surfaces of the syringe 12 and syringe port 16
that cooperate to open the syringe port 16 for the installation of the syringe 12 are the one or
more third surfaces 42 of the syringe 12 and one or more of the inclined surfaces 116 of the
syringe port 16. The detachment surfaces of the syringe 12 and syringe port 16 that cooperate to
disengage or remove the syringe 12 from the syringe port 16 are the third surfaces 42 of the
syringe 16 and inclined surface 90 of the syringe port 16. The ejection surfaces of the syringe
12 and syringe port 16 that cooperate to create a distally directed force to urge ejection of the
syringe 12 from syringe port 16 are the third surfaces 42 of the syringe 16 and inclined surfaces
90 of the syringe port 16. The rotational stop surfaces of the syringe 12 and syringe port 16 that
cooperate to prevent rotation as a luer connector is screwed onto the syringe 12 are the one or
more first surfaces 40 and/or second surfaces 40' of the syringe 12 and the one or more second
recesses 88 of the syringe port 16, as well as any frictional force between the one or more base
surfaces 38 of the syringe 12 and the one or more locking elements 112 of syringe port 16. The
syringe clearance surface(s), which allow the syringe to fit into the syringe port 16, are outer

                                                  43
surface 21 of the barrel 18 on one radially adjacent side (left or right) of the lug 34 which clear
the sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48.
[00133]     The embodiment of the syringe port 16 of FIGS. 3A-3H has been described from the
perspective that there are first recesses 60 cut into the sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48.
In another embodiment, the sidewall 58 can be considered to project from the cylindrical surface
defined by the first recesses 60 of the first retaining ring 48. Each of these two configurations
may be used to describe or be embodied in a single embodiment.
[00134]     While FIGS. 2A-3G illustrate several non-limiting embodiment of the at least one
syringe retaining member 32, various other shapes are also contemplated. For example, the one
or more first lugs 34 and/or second lugs 37 of the at least one syringe retaining member 32 may
have a generally circular, square, rectangular, pentagonal, or any other polygonal shape.
Various features may be provided on the at least one syringe retaining member 32 to help self
orient the syringe 12 relative to the syringe port 16 or to releasably lock the syringe 12 with the
syringe port 16. In each embodiment, the at least one syringe retaining member 32 is configured
for forming a reversible locking engagement with a corresponding locking mechanism in the
syringe port 16 of the injector 10 for retaining the syringe 12 in the syringe port 16. Various
other shapes for one or more lugs 34 of the at least one syringe retaining member 32 are
discussed herein with reference to FIGS. 4A-5Z and 10A-10H.
[00135]     FIGS. 4A-4L show cylindrical plan projection views of various embodiments of the
proximal end 20 of the at least one syringe 12 and a corresponding at least one syringe port 16
for receiving the proximal end 20 of the syringe 12. With reference to FIG. 4A, an embodiment
of the proximal end 20 of the syringe 12, as generally illustrated in FIG. 2A, is rotationally
aligned as shown by the dotted lines for insertion of the syringe 12 into the distal end of the
syringe port 16. From this perspective, when self-aligned, the syringe retaining members 32,
including the lugs 34 and the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18 located between the lugs 34 are
configured to be received within the clearance space 63 of the syringe port 16 to allow insertion
of the syringe 12 into the syringe port 16.     Similarly, the outer surface 21 of the syringe barrel
18 clears the sidewall 58 of the first retaining ring 48.      One way to measure or express the
relationship between these elements is through the angle which they subtend on the outside of
the syringe 12 and the inside of the syringe port 16. For example, in an embodiment with the six
fold symmetry of the syringe retaining members 32, each lug 34 subtends a nominal angle of 30
degrees and each first recess 60 similarly subtends 30 degrees, of course with an allowance for
clearance and tolerance so that the lug 34 can slide within the first recess 60. Because the one or

                                                 44
more locking tabs 96 extend over a finite angular extent, the base surface 38 of the lug 34 may
not be positionable fully under the retention surface 64. For example, if the lugs 34 and the first
recesses 60 are both 30 degrees and locking tab 96 occupies an angle of 4 degrees, then the base
surface 38 of the lug 34 will overlap with the locking tab 96 over a surface of 26 degrees. To
maximize the overlap, the lug 34 can be reduced to 28 degrees and the recess 60 can be
increased in width to 32 degrees, including the 4 degrees of the locking tab 96. Upon insertion,
the entire width of the lug 34 may be positioned under the retention surface 64 adjacent the
locking tab 96. Each lug 34 is configured for being received within the first recess 60 on the
first retaining ring 48. The second surface 42 of each lug 34 may be self-guided into alignment
with the first recess 60 along the guiding surface 65 to enable the insertion of the lug 34 into the
first recess 60.    With reference to FIG. 4K, the second retaining ring 78 has first locking
elements 84 and second locking elements 86 having a substantially rectangular shape with a
recess 91 provided in one of the upper corners. The recess 91 is configured for guiding the
second surface 42 of the lugs 34 into the second recess 88 as the lugs 34 are inserted into the
syringe port 16.
[00136]      FIG. 4B shows another embodiment in which the number of lugs 34 is smaller than
the number of recesses 60 on the syringe port 16. If one or more lugs 34 are absent, the missing
area is taken up by a larger area of the outer surface 21 of the syringe 12.               In some
embodiments, at least two lugs 34 are provided, adjacent to each other, spaced around the barrel
18, or on opposite sides of the barrel 18, so that one of the lugs 34 will rotate against the
corresponding locking tabs 96 for proper engagement of the syringe 12 within the syringe port
16. Each lug 34 is configured for being received within the first recess 60 on the first retaining
ring 48.    The second surface 42 of each lug 34 may be guided into alignment with the first
recess 60 along the guiding surface 65 to enable the insertion of the lug 34 into the first recess
60.
[00137]      FIG. 4C shows another embodiment in which the one or more locking tabs 96 are
formed on the top surface 38 of at least one of the lugs 34. In other embodiments, the one or
more locking tabs 96 may be formed separately from the lugs 34.             In other embodiments,
locking tabs 96 may be provided on both the at least one lugs 34 of syringe 12 and at least one
retaining member 58 of the syringe port 16.
[00138]      FIG. 4D shows a cylindrical plan projection view of an embodiment of the syringe
12 and syringe port 16 shown in FIGS. 3A-3E. FIG. 4E shows a further embodiment in which
some, but not all, of the first and second lugs 34, 37 have been removed.          In FIG. 4J, the

                                                 45
locking elements 112 on the third retaining ring 108 do not have the inclined surface 116 shown
in FIGS. 4D-4E.       Instead, a space SS is provided between the locking elements 112 and the
sidewall 58 for inserting the point 44 of the first lugs 34. In each of these embodiments, at least
one first lug 34 is provided.
[00139]      FIG. 4F shows another embodiment with eight fold symmetry. A benefit of higher
symmetry arrangements is that a lower rotational angle of the syringe 12 is necessary for
installation and removal. For example, with eight fold symmetry, the rotation of the syringe 12
for removal and ejection can be 22.5 degrees or less. The additional lugs also spread the holding
or restraining force more evenly around the syringe barrel 18.          In other embodiments, the
connection between the syringe 12 and the syringe port 16 may have 8-fold, 10-fold, 12-fold,
16-fold, or any other symmetry.
[00140]      With reference to FIG. 4G, the lugs 34 have a generally triangular shape with a pair
of second surfaces 42 tapering axially to a point 44. The second surfaces 42 are configured to
engage the guiding surfaces 65 on the first retaining ring 48 to self-guide the lugs 34 into the
first recess 60. The second retaining ring 78 has second recesses 88 shaped correspondingly to
receive the lugs 34. At least some of the first locking elements 84 have a ramp 89 to guide the
lugs 34 toward the second recess 88 as the syringe 12 is inserted proximally within the syringe
port 16.    In FIG. 411, the lugs 34 have a triangular shape with at least one surface that is
substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis 15 (shown in FIG. 3A). The second retaining ring
78 has second recesses 88 shaped correspondingly to receive the lugs 34. In FIG. 41, the lugs 34
have an integral locking tab 96.
[00141]      FIGS. 5A-5Z illustrate various embodiments of the lug 34.         FIG. 5A shows an
example lug 34 having the configuration described herein with reference to FIGS. 2A-2D, while
FIG. 5B illustrates an outline of the lug 34 with a dotted line indicating each of the surfaces of
the lug 34.
[00142]      FIG. 5C shows an example of a lug 34c in which the center section 612 is hollow
and the lug 34c is defined by perimeter surfaces. In some embodiments, the center section 612
may have a thickness that corresponds to the thickness of the syringe barrel 18 (shown in FIG.
2A). In other embodiments, the center section 612 may have a thickness that is greater or less
than the thickness of the syringe barrel 18 (shown in FIG. 2A).          In some embodiments, the
hollow center section 612 extends only through a portion of the sidewall thickness of the syringe
barrel 18.    The perimeter surfaces may be connected together or have one or more gap

                                                 46
therebetween. One benefit of having a hollow center section 612 is that sinking of the plastic
material can be reduced or eliminated as the material cools during molding. With reference to
FIG. 5D, one or more reinforcing members 614 may be provided in the center section 612. The
one or more reinforcing members 614 may be connected to or separated from the perimeter
surfaces of the lug 34D. In cases where the retention force needs to be high and thus there is
significant stress on the surface of the lug 34D, the presence of additional material or reinforcing
members, for example one or more reinforcing members 614, can allow the lug 34D to operate
under such higher forces.     FIG. 5E shows a lug 34E in which a plurality of voids 612" are
provided.    In some embodiments, the voids 612" may have a substantially circular shape;
however, various other shapes may be readily implemented.
[00143]     FIG. 5F illustrates a lug 34F in which the second surfaces 42 are not physical
surfaces but are virtual surfaces defined by the dashed lines extending between points 620 and
622. These virtual surfaces taper axially in a manner described herein with reference to the first
and second surfaces 40, 42 on the lug 34 shown in FIGS. 2A and 3A.
[00144]     According to certain embodiments, lug 34 may be a combination of a plurality of
lugs that together form the surfaces of lug 34 which can be a combination of physical surfaces
and/or virtual surfaces. FIG. 5G shows an embodiment where the lug 34G is an assembly of a
plurality of lugs 34G-1 to 34G-5. As shown with the dotted lines in FIG. 5G, the functional
surfaces of the lug 34G are defined by the interaction of two or more of the lugs 34G-1 to 34G
5.  The second surfaces 42 are not physical surfaces but are virtual surfaces defined by the
dashed lines extending between 34G-1 and 34G-2 and between 34G-4 and 34G-5.                    These
virtual surfaces taper axially in a manner described herein with reference to the first and second
surfaces 40, 42 on the lug 34 shown in FIG. 2A.
[00145]     FIG. 5H shows a lug 34H having a pair of lugs 3411-1 and 3411-4.                  In the
embodiment of FIG. 511, the base surface 38 and the first surfaces 40 are formed on the lug
3411-1, while point 44 is a surface of lug 3411-2. The second surfaces 42 are virtual surfaces
formed between the two lugs 3411-1 and 3411-2. These virtual surfaces taper axially in a manner
described herein with reference to the first and second surfaces 40, 42 on the lug 34 shown in
FIG. 2A.
[00146]     FIG. 51 shows a lug 341 having four lugs 341-1 to 341-2.         In the embodiment of
FIG. 51, the base surface 38 is formed on the lug 341-1, while point 44 is a surface of lug 341-3.
The first surfaces 40 are virtual surfaces formed between 341-1 and 341-2, and between 341-2

                                                 47
and 341-4.   The second surfaces 42 are virtual surfaces formed between 341-2 and 341-3, and
between 341-3 and 341-4. These virtual surfaces taper axially in a manner described herein with
reference to the first and second surfaces 40, 42 on the lug 34 shown in FIG. 2A.
[00147]     FIG. 5J shows a lug 34J having a T-shaped central lug 34J-1 and a pair of lateral
lugs 34J-2 and 34J-3.     In the embodiment of FIG. 5J, the base surface 38 is formed on the top
surface of the lug 34J-1, while point 44 is on the bottom surface of the lug 34J-1. The first
surfaces 40 are virtual surfaces formed between a top portion of 34J-1 and 34J-2, and between
the top portion of 34J-1 and 34J-3. The second surfaces 42 are virtual surfaces formed between
a bottom portion of 34J-1 and 34J-2, and between the bottom portion of 34J-1 and 34J-3. FIG.
5W shows a T-shaped lug 34W without the pair of lateral lugs shown in FIG. 5J. In FIG. 5W,
the second surfaces 42 are virtual surfaces formed between the top portion of lug 34W and the
bottom portion at the point 44. These virtual surfaces taper axially in a manner described herein
with reference to the first and second surfaces 40, 42 on the lug 34 shown in FIG. 2A.
[00148]     FIG. 5K shows a lug 34K having an upper lug 34K-1 and a lower lug 34K-2. In the
embodiment of FIG. 5K, the base surface 38 is formed on the top surface of the lug 34K-1,
while point 44 is represented by the lug 34K-2. A pair of first surfaces 40 extends along lateral
portions of 34K-1 and 34K-2. The second surfaces 42 are virtual surfaces formed between a
terminal portion of the first surfaces 40 and 34K-2. These virtual surfaces taper axially in a
manner described herein with reference to the first and second surfaces 40, 42 on the lug 34
shown in FIG. 2A.
[00149]     FIG. 5L shows a lug 34L having a shape similar to the shape of lug 34C described
herein with reference to FIG. 5C. Lug 34L further has an integrated locking tab 96a extending
from a portion of the base surface 38.
[00150]     FIG. 5M shows a lug 34M having a substantially linear base surface 38 and curved
first and second surfaces 40, 42. The first and second surfaces 40, 42 may be curved to have a
substantially elliptical form. The first and second surfaces 40, 42 taper axially in a curvilinear
form to point 44. FIG. 5N shows a lug 34N having a shape similar to that of lug 34M shown in
FIG. 5M. The lug 34N is formed from an upper lug 34N-1 and a lower lug 34N-2. The upper
lug 34N-1 defines a substantially linear base surface 38, while the lower lug 34N-2 is spaced
apart from the upper lug 34N-1 by a gap and has a substantially curved shape that tapers axially
inwardly along the second surfaces 42.

                                                  48
[00151]     FIGS. 50-5P show lugs 340, 34P having a shape similar to the shape of lug 34C
described herein with reference to FIG. 5C.       Lugs 340, 34P have at least one of the first or
second surfaces 40, 42 removed such that lugs 340, 34P have a discontinuous outline with at
least one virtual second surface 420 extending between the point 44 and the first surface 40.
This virtual second surface 420 tapers axially in a manner described herein with reference to the
first and second surfaces 40, 42 on the lug 34 shown in FIG. 2A.
[00152]     FIGS. 5Q shows a lug 34Q formed from three circular lugs 34Q-1 to 34Q-3.             The
circular lugs 34Q-1 to 34Q-3 are positioned such that virtual surfaces are defined therebetween.
In particular, a pair of second virtual surfaces is defined by the pair of upper circular lugs 34Q-2
and 34Q-3 and the lower circular lug 34Q-1.         The lugs 34Q-1 to 34Q-3 may have any other
shape, such as oval, square, triangular, rhomboid, or other polygonal shape. Each virtual second
surface 42 tapers axially in a manner described herein with reference to the first and second
surfaces 40, 42 on the lug 34 shown in FIG. 2A.          FIG. 5R shows a lug 34R having a shape
formed from two circular lugs 34R-1 to 34R-2 with a single virtual second surface 42 defined
therebetween.     The lugs 34R-1 to 34R-2 may have any other shape, such as oval, square,
triangular, rhomboid, or other polygonal shape. FIG. 5Y shows a lug 34Y formed from three
circular lugs 34Y-1 to 34Y-3 where the upper pair of lugs 34Y-1 and 34Y-2 is closer axially to
the lower lug 34Y-3 than in the lug embodiment 34Q described with reference to FIG. 5Q.           In
FIG. 5Z, the lower lug 34Z-3 of lug 34Z is represented as a rectangular element rather than a
circular element.
[00153]     With reference to FIGS. 5S(1)-5S(3), a pair of lugs 34SA and 34SB is provided on
separate lugs 34 separated by the outer surface 21 of the barrel 18.        On the first lug 34SA, a
single lug 34S-1 is provided in an upper corner, for example the upper right corner of the outline
of lug 34 where a virtual base surface 38 is joined with a virtual first surface 40. The first lug
34SA is configured to engage the locking tab 96 provided on the first retaining ring 48 of the
locking mechanism 35 when the syringe 12 is inserted into the syringe port 16 (as shown in
cylindrical plan projection FIG. 5S(3)).     The second lug 34SB is formed as a single lug 34S-2
located at the point 44.    The second lug 34SB is configured to self-orient and guide the syringe
12 into the syringe port 16 by engaging the guiding surface 65 on the first retaining ring 48.
The lugs 34S-1 and 34S-2 may have a circular, oval, triangular, square, rectangular, or other
polygonal shape.

                                                 49
[00154]     With reference to FIG. 5T, the lug 34T is formed as a rectangular second surface 42
that tapers axially from the base surface 38 to the point 44.      This second surface 42 tapers
axially in a manner described herein with reference to the first and second surfaces 40, 42 on the
lug 34 shown in FIG. 2A.
[00155]     With reference to FIG. 5U, the lug 34U is shaped as a square lug having two sides
aligned along the direction of tapered second surfaces 42.    FIG. 5V shows a triangular lug 34V
having two sides aligned along the direction of tapered second surfaces 42.               In other
embodiments, lug 34V may include at least one second lug defining the base surface 38. The
second surfaces 42 in FIGS. 5T-5V taper axially in a manner described herein with reference to
the first and second surfaces 40, 42 on the lug 34 shown in FIG. 2A.
[00156]     FIG. 5X shows a lug 34X having a plurality of parallel elements spaced apart
horizontally relative to a vertical axis. A virtual second surface 42 is defined between at least
two adjacent parallel elements. The second surface 42 in FIG. 5X tapers axially in a manner
described herein with reference to the first and second surfaces 40, 42 on the lug 34 shown in
FIG. 2A. Some embodiments of syringe 12 may include various combinations of any of lugs
34A through 34X and/or 1 OA through 10 H in the at least one syringe retaining members 32.
[00157]     With reference to FIG. 6A, a coupling 130, including a mounting member therefor,
can be fabricated to be separate from and attachable to the syringe barrel 18. The coupling 130
can, for example, be configured to accept the syringe 12 having at least one syringe retaining
member 32 described herein and to adapt the syringe 12 for use with a fluid injector having a
syringe port with a locking mechanism not configured to receive the at least one syringe
retaining member 32. For example, the coupling 130 can adapt the syringe 12 for use with the
fluid injector described in United States Patent No. 5,383,858 or United States Patent No.
6,652,489, or any other fluid injector. In some embodiments, the coupling 130 is releasably
connectable to the injector. In other embodiments, the coupling 130 may be inserted into and
retained in a locking mechanism of the fluid injector. The coupling 130 may also be releasably
connected or attached to the syringe 12 independently of the attachment of the coupling to the
injector.
[00158]     With reference to FIG. 6A, the coupling 130 has a first portion 132 configured for
receiving a syringe 12 having at least one syringe retaining member 32, according to an
embodiment described herein, and a second portion 134 configured for loading into an injector
having a syringe port which is not configured to receive the syringe 12 having at least one

                                                50
syringe retaining member 32 according to an embodiment described herein. The first portion
132 may be directly connected and monolithically formed with the second portion 134. In some
embodiments, the first portion 132 may be releasably connected to the second portion 134 such
that various second portions (shown in FIGS. 7A-7B) may be used with the first portion 132.
With continued reference to FIG. 6A, the first portion 132 has a locking mechanism 35
described herein with reference to FIGS. 2A-2D.      In other embodiments, the first portion 132
may have a locking mechanism 35 described with reference to FIGS. 3A-3H.               In various
embodiments, the first portion 132 of the coupling 130 is configured for releasably receiving the
syringe 12 having a corresponding at least one syringe retaining member 32, as described
herein. With reference to FIGS. 7A-7B, the second portion 134 of the coupling 130 may have a
connection interface configured for connecting with an injector that would otherwise not be
capable of receiving the syringe 12 having a syringe retaining member 32 described herein.
FIG. 7A shows the second portion 134 configured for use with an engagement mechanism of the
injector described in United States Patent No. 5,383,858, while FIG. 7B shows the second
portion 134 configured for use with an engagement mechanism of the injector described in
United States Patent No. 6,652,489.    The second portion 134 may be configured to interface
with various other injectors not expressly described herein. In some embodiments, the coupling
130 may have a separate mechanism for engaging and disengaging the coupling 130 to and from
a locking mechanism of the injector.
[00159]    With reference to FIG. 6B, an adapter 230 may be configured to receive a syringe S
not having one or more syringe retaining members 32 described herein for removably
connecting with an injector having the locking mechanism 35 in accordance with one of the
embodiments described herein. In various embodiments, the adapter 230 may be configured for
connecting to a syringe S for subsequent installation on an injector. For example, the adapter
230 may be connected to the non-compatible syringe S releasably or permanently.          Such an
adapter 230 may have a connection interface having at least one engagement member 32 in
accordance with embodiments described herein. The adapter 230 may be configured for being
releasably connectable with an injector having a locking mechanism 35 described herein. The
adapter 230 and the syringe S may be connected prior to connecting to the injector, or the
adapter 230 may be connected to the injector before the syringe S is connected to the adapter
230.   The adapter 230 and syringe S may be removed from the injector after use, with the
adapter 230 being disposed of with the syringe S, or being removed from the used syringe S and
saved for subsequent use with a different syringe S.

                                                  51
 [00160]    In one embodiment, a first portion 232 of the adapter 230 may be configured for
permanently or releasably receiving the syringe S, which is not compatible for use with any of
the locking mechanisms 35 described herein. In some embodiments, the syringe S may be the
syringe described in United States Patent No. 5,383,858 or United States Patent No. 6,652,489,
or any other syringe type. The adapter 230 allows the non-compatible syringe S to engage and
be retained by the locking mechanisms 35 described herein. In some embodiments, the adapter
230 may have a separate mechanism for engaging and disengaging the syringe S while the
adapter 230 remains connected to the locking mechanism 35 of the injector 10. The first portion
232 may also be a cradle or sleeve to hold or retain other syringes S, for example hand held
syringes or syringes having different retention mechanisms or features and allowing them to
engage and be retained by locking mechanisms 35. A second portion 234 of the adapter 230
may have at least one syringe retaining member 32 in accordance with embodiments described
herein. In some embodiments, the at least one syringe retaining member 32 may have one or
more lugs 34 described herein with reference to FIGS. 2A-5Z and 10A-10H.              The second
portion 234 of the adapter 230 may be configured for being releasably connectable with an
injector having a locking mechanism 35 described herein.            In this manner, various non
compatible syringes S may be used with an injector having a locking mechanism 35 described
herein. In various embodiments, the adapter 230 may be configured for connecting a pressure
jacket (not shown) to the injector for use in injection procedures requiring high pressure. For
example, the adapter 230 having the pressure jacket may be configured for being releasably
connectable with an injector. Such an adapter 230 may have a connection interface having at
least one syringe retaining member 32 in accordance with one of the embodiments described
herein or alternatively have a connection interface that allows non-compatible syringes to be
used with the injector. The adapter 230 may be configured for being releasably, permanently, or
semi-permanently connectable with an injector having a locking mechanism 35 described herein
and allowing syringes S having alternate retaining mechanisms to be used with the injector.
Once connected with the injector, the syringe S may be loaded into the adapter 230 or the
pressure jacket and be retained therein at its proximal or distal end.
 [00161]    In various embodiments, an adapter 230 may be configured for connecting a syringe
 12 having some but not all of the features necessary for subsequent installation into an injector
 10 described herein. For example, with reference to FIG. 4L, an adapter 320 may be a ring 300
that provides surfaces 42 and 44 and mates with a syringe that has one or more lugs with at least
a base surface 38 for retention within locking mechanism 35. According to this embodiment,
the ring 300 may be inserted in syringe port 16 and remain therein for use with subsequent

                                                 52
syringes.    The adapter 320 allows a syringe which could not by itself mate or function fully
with the syringe port 16 to mate and at least perform the retention function with the locking
mechanism 35.      FIG. 4M shows another embodiment of an adapter 320 having a ring with
prominences 340 that extend distally out of the syringe port 16. These prominences 340 can be
combined or connected, for example to form a ring extending radially outward from the syringe
port 16. By rotating the adapter 320, the syringe 12 and the adapter 320 may be released from
the syringe port 16.    Similarly upon insertion, to the adapter 320 may be pushed proximally for
engagement with the syringe 12.
[00162]     FIG. 8A is an illustration of a generalized free body diagram of forces present during
ejection of the syringe 12 from the syringe port 16. A normal force NI and a frictional force Fl
of the lug 34 act against the first locking element 84, and a normal force N2 and a frictional
force F2 of the lug 34 act on the retention surface of sidewall 58 as well as the force T applied
by the user to rotate the syringe 12 and any force D urging the syringe 12 distally provided by
the drip flange or other means.      In some embodiments, the syringe 12 may be made from a
polyethylene terephthalate (PET) material, while the first locking element 84 may be made from
a polyoxymethylene (POM) material, such as DELRIN TM . The coefficient of friction p of
DELRINTM on another DELRINTM surface is approximately 0.4. Using this value, a practical
limit of the angle A to enable ejection is approximately 20 degrees relative to a direction of the
longitudinal axis 15 of the syringe 12. Thus for angles greater than 20 degrees, there will be slip
and upon sufficient motion for the lugs 34 to clear the projections, the syringe 12 will be ejected
and pop distally in the syringe port (FIG. 8B).     FIG. 8C shows that the ratio of the force T to
rotate the syringe 12 to the restoring force S of the resilient member 102 increases as the angle
A increases.    The ratio remains substantially constant as the angle increases for low angle
values, but then increases significantly at higher angles. In some examples, an angle of at least
30 degrees and less than approximately 60 degrees may be used.
[00163]     FIG. 9A is an illustration of a generalized free body diagram of forces acting at the
interface during the insertion of the syringe 12 into the syringe port 16. The one or more lugs 34
interact with the one or more first locking elements 84 due to a lateral force P provided by the
user. During the rotation, the one or more lugs 34 are in sliding contact with the sidewall 58. In
addition, the second retaining ring (not shown) slides over the bottom surface 82 of the housing.
Performing a static force analysis on this generalized interaction provides an estimate of the
force for insertion as a function of the angle A of the interaction of the two surfaces for various
coefficients of friction p between the surfaces, as shown in FIG. 9B.

                                                  53
[00164]     FIGS. 10A-10H, illustrate various embodiments of the lug 34 for use with various
embodiments of the locking mechanisms 35 described herein. FIG. 10A shows an example lug
34AA having the configuration described herein with reference to FIGS. 3A-3H, while FIG.
10B illustrates an outline of the lug 34BB with a dotted line indicating each of the surfaces of
the lug 34. FIG. 1OC shows an example of a lug 34CC in which the center section 612 is hollow
and the lug 34CC is defined by perimeter surfaces. In some embodiments, the center section
612 may have a thickness that corresponds to the thickness of the syringe barrel 18 (shown in
FIG. 3A). In other embodiments, the center section 612 may have a thickness that is greater or
less than the thickness of the syringe barrel 18 (shown in FIG. 3A). The perimeter surfaces may
be connected together or have one or more gap therebetween. One benefit of having a hollow
center section 612 is that sinking of the plastic material can be reduced or eliminated as the
material cools during molding. With reference to FIG. 10D, one or more reinforcing members
614 may be provided in the center section 612, which has two peripheral gaps as mentioned
above. The one or more reinforcing members 614 may be connected to or separated from the
perimeter surfaces of the lug 34DD. In cases where the retention force needs to be high and thus
there is significant stress on the surface of the lug 34DD, the presence of additional material or
reinforcing members, for example one or more reinforcing members 614, can allow the lug
34EE to operate under such higher forces. FIG. 1OE shows a lug 34EE having a single vertical
or longitudinal member, for example defining surface 40, point 44, and base surface 38. FIG.
1OF shows a lug 34FF having two generally rounded lugs, for example defining surface 40,
point 44, and base surface 38.      FIG. lOG shows a lug 34GG having one rounded lug. The
bottom of lug 34GG defines the point 44 and the top defines the base surface 38. FIG. 10H
shows a lug 34HH assembled from three generally vertical and parallel lugs with an even top
surface which form the base surface 38 and tapered bottom surface. It should be noted that one
or more variations of the lugs 34 shown in FIGS. 5 and 10 or other variations are within the
scope of this disclosure can operate with one or more variations of the syringe ports 16 that are
within the scope of this disclosure.
[00165]     With reference to FIG. 1B, a system may be provided to transmit information from
the syringe 12 to the injector 10 (shown in FIG. 1A). In one embodiment, the syringe 12 may be
provided with one or more encoding devices 49 for example, on one or more of the syringe
retaining members 32. In other embodiments, the one or more encoding devices 49 may be
provided on the outer surface 21 (shown in FIG. 1B), the inner surface 23 (shown in FIG. 1B),
within at least a portion of the sidewall 19 (shown in FIG. 1B) of the proximal end 20 of the
syringe 12, or on the plunger 26. In some embodiments, the encoding device 49 may be an

                                                  54
optically readable member, such as a barcode, while in other embodiments, the encoding device
49 may be an RFID tag, near-field communication device, or any other suitable encoding
device.    A plurality of encoding devices 49 may be disposed around an inner or outer
circumference of the syringe 12 and/or the plunger 26. At least one sensor 51 (shown in FIG.
2A) may be provided on the syringe port 16 to read the encoding device 49.                  In some
embodiments, the at least one sensor 51 may be provided on at least one second recess 88.
Examples of information which could be encoded on encoding device 49 include, without
limitation, dimensions of syringe 12, volume of syringe 12, content of the syringe 12 (in the case
of a pre-filled syringe), manufacturing information such as lot numbers, dates and tool cavity
number, recommended contrast media flow rates and pressures, and/or loading/injection
sequences. In one embodiment, the presence, absence, or shape of one or more syringe retaining
members 32 may serve as the encoding device.            For example, one absent syringe retaining
members 32 may represent a first code.           Two or more adjacent absent syringe retaining
members 32 may represent a second code. Two or more non-adjacent absent syringe retaining
members 32 may represent a third code. Various other combinations of present/absent or
differently shaped syringe retaining members 32 may represent various other codes.               The
presence or absence of individual syringe retaining members 32 can be determined by the
injector using mechanical switches, electrical material sensors, optically, visually, or by other
means know in the sensing art.       This syringe encoding information is communicated to the
injector control for communication to the operator and for subsequent use in correctly
programming and controlling the injector.
[00166]     In some embodiments, at least a portion of the injector 10 (shown in FIG. 1A), such
as the base 70 of the locking mechanism 35 shown in FIGS. 2A and 3A, may have an inner
support ring (not shown) that protrudes into at least a portion of the interior volume 25 of the
proximal end 20 of the syringe 12. Such a support ring may be removably extendable into at
least a portion of the interior volume 25. The support ring may provide radial and axial support
to at least a portion of one or more syringe retaining members 32 and/or the inner sidewall 23
(shown in FIG. 1B) of the syringe 12 when the syringe 12 is inserted into the locking
mechanism 35. In embodiments where at least one sensor 51 is provided on the syringe port 16,
such as shown in FIG. 2A, the support ring may provide a contrasting surface for detecting the
presence or absence of the at least one encoding device 49 on syringe 12. For example, the
support ring may provide a contrasting opaque surface against a translucent or transparent
sidewall 19 of the syringe 12 to facilitate the detection of the at least one encoding device 49.

                                                 55
[00167]    Although the disclosure has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration
based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, it is
to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the disclosure is not limited
to the disclosed embodiments, but, on the contrary, is intended to cover modifications and
equivalent arrangements.     For example, it is to be understood that the present disclosure
contemplates that, to the extent possible, one or more features of any embodiment can be
combined with one or more features of any other embodiment.
[00168]    The word 'comprising'      and forms of the word 'comprising'          as used in this
description and in the claims does not limit the invention claimed to exclude any variants or
additions.
[00169]    In this specification where a document, act or item of knowledge is referred to or
discussed, this reference or discussion is not an admission that the document, act or item of
knowledge or any combination thereof was at the priority date publicly available, known to the
public, part of the common general knowledge or known to be relevant to an attempt to solve
any problem with which this specification is concerned.

                                                    56
Claims
1.       A medical injector comprising at least one syringe port for engaging at least one
syringe, the syringe port comprising a locking mechanism comprising:
         a housing; and
         a first retaining ring at a distal end of the housing, the first retaining ring having a
central opening and a sidewall, wherein the sidewall has one or more first recesses extending
radially outward into the sidewall and lateral surfaces of each first recess defining a travel
path for guiding movement of one or more retaining lugs of a syringe,
         wherein each first recess comprises at least one first guiding surface and a second
guiding surface to guide the retaining lug into self-oriented alignment with the first recess.
2.       The medical injector of claim 1, wherein the at least one first guiding surface and the
second guiding surface are inclined radially and axially toward the central opening of the first
retaining ring.
3.       The medical injector of claim 1 or 2, wherein the at least one first guiding surface
comprises an axial point which separates a first portion of the first guiding surface and a
second portion of the first guiding surface, wherein the first portion of the first guiding
surface is inclined towards one of the first recesses and the second portion of the first guiding
surface is inclined towards a second of the first recesses adjacent to the first recess.
4.       The medical injector of any one of claims I to 3, wherein the second guiding surface
is radially inclined towards the central opening from a distal end of the second guiding
surface to the proximal end of the second guiding surface.
5.       The medical injector of any one of claims I to 4, wherein the at least one first guiding
surface and the second guiding surface guide the syringe into rotational alignment with the
one or more recesses and into axial alignment with the syringe port.
6.       The medical injector of any one of claims I to 5, wherein the one or more first
recesses are evenly spaced about an inner circumference of the sidewall.

                                                   57
7.      The medical injector of any one of claims I to 6, wherein each of the one or more first
recesses and the sidewall of the first retaining ring on one radially adjacent side of the first
recess define a clearance space for receiving a syringe retaining member on the syringe,
wherein the syringe retaining member comprises a lug and an outer surface of a barrel of the
syringe on one radially adjacent side of the lug.
8.      A medical injector comprising at least one syringe port for engaging at least one
syringe, the syringe port comprising a locking mechanism comprising:
        a housing;
        a first retaining ring at a distal end of the housing, the first retaining ring having a
central opening and a sidewall, wherein the sidewall has one or more first recesses extending
radially outward into the sidewall and lateral surfaces of each first recess defining a travel
path for guiding movement of one or more retaining lugs of a syringe; and
        a second retaining ring that is rotatable relative to the first regaining ring and the
housing,
        wherein the second retaining ring comprising one or more locking elements extending
radially from an inner sidewall of the second retaining ring and are separated by one or more
second recesses for receiving the one or more retaining lugs when an insertion section of the
syringe is inserted through the central opening of the first retaining ring, wherein the one or
more locking elements comprise a first inclined surface for engaging a corresponding
inclined surface of the one or more retaining lugs for axially ejecting the syringe upon
disengagement of the syringe from the syringe port.
9.      The medical injector of claim 8, wherein the one or more locking elements further
comprise a second inclined surface.
10.     The medical injector of claim 8 or 9, wherein the second retaining ring further
comprises at least one elastically resilient member to bias the second retaining ring to a first
locked position.
11.     The medical injector of claim 10, wherein when the syringe is inserted into the
syringe port, the inclined surface of the one or more retaining lugs engage the first inclined
surface of the one or more locking elements to rotate the second retaining ring from the first

                                                   58
locked position to a second insertion or release position to allow the one or more second
recesses to receive the one or more retaining lugs and wherein the at least one elastically
resilient member returns the second retaining ring to the first locked position after the one or
more retaining lugs is received by the one or more second recesses.
12.     The medical injector of claim 10 or 11, wherein rotation of the syringe against a
biasing force of the at least one elastically resilient member rotates the second retaining ring
from the first locked position to a second insertion or release position to disengage the one or
more lugs from the one or more locking elements.
13.     The medical injector of claim 12, wherein rotation of the syringe causes the inclined
surface of the one or more retaining lugs rides up the first inclined surface of the one or more
locking elements to axially ejecting the syringe from the syringe port.
14.     A medical injector comprising at least one syringe port for engaging at least one
syringe, the syringe port comprising a locking mechanism comprising:
        a housing;
        a first retaining ring at a distal end of the housing, the first retaining ring having a
central opening and a sidewall, wherein the sidewall has one or more first recesses extending
radially outward into the sidewall and lateral surfaces of each first recess defining a travel
path for guiding movement of one or more retaining lugs of a syringe; and
        a second retaining ring that is rotatable relative to the first regaining ring and the
housing,
        wherein each first recess comprises at least one first guiding surface and a second
guiding surface to guide the retaining lug into self-oriented alignment with the first recess,
and
        wherein the second retaining ring comprising one or more locking elements extending
radially from an inner sidewall of the second retaining ring and are separated by one or more
second recesses for receiving the one or more retaining lugs when an insertion section of the
syringe is inserted through the central opening of the first retaining ring, wherein the one or
more locking elements comprise a first inclined surface for engaging a corresponding
inclined surface of the one or more retaining lugs for axially ejecting the syringe upon
disengagement of the syringe from the syringe port.

                                                 59
15.      The medical injector of claim 14, wherein the at least one first guiding surface
comprises an axial point which separates a first portion of the first guiding surface and a
second portion of the first guiding surface, wherein the first portion of the first guiding
surface is inclined towards one of the first recesses and the second portion of the first guiding
surface is inclined towards a second of the first recesses adjacent to the first recess.
16.      The medical injector of claim 14 or 15, wherein the second guiding surface is radially
inclined towards the central opening from a distal end of the second guiding surface to the
proximal end of the second guiding surface.
17.      The medical injector of any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein the at least one first
guiding surface and the second guiding surface guide the syringe into rotational alignment
with the one or more recesses and into axial alignment with the syringe port.
18.      The medical injector of any one of claims 14 to 17, wherein the second retaining ring
further comprises at least one elastically resilient member to bias the second retaining ring to
a first locked position.
19.      The medical injector of claim 18, wherein when the syringe is inserted into the
syringe port, the inclined surface of the one or more retaining lugs engage the first inclined
surface of the one or more locking elements to rotate the second retaining ring from the first
locked position to a second insertion or release position to allow the one or more second
recesses to receive the one or more retaining lugs and wherein the at least one elastically
resilient member returns the second retaining ring to the first locked position after the one or
more retaining lugs is received by the one or more second recesses.
20.      The medical injector of claim 18 or 19, wherein rotation of the syringe against a
biasing force of the at least one elastically resilient member rotates the second retaining ring
from the first locked position to a second insertion or release position to disengage the one or
more lugs from the one or more locking elements, and
         wherein the inclined surface of the one or more retaining lugs rides up the first
inclined surface of the one or more locking elements to axially ejecting the syringe from the
syringe port.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<U+2736><U+2736>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+273B><U+2701>
 <U+273B>
                                    <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
     <U+2736>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+273A><U+2701>
       <U+273A>
                                      <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<U+273E>
 <U+2736><U+2736><U+2736>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
     <U+2739>
                                    <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                        <U+2736>
<U+273A><U+273A>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             <U+2736><U+2736><U+2701>
<U+2736><U+2736><U+2701><U+2739>
       <U+2736><U+2736><U+273B>
                   <U+2739><U+2736><U+2739>                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2738>
                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
    <U+273B>
        <U+2738>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2738><U+2739> <U+2701><U+2738>
                                   <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

