ABSTRACT
This invention relates to a modular walling system. The system includes a plurality of primary
structural members and securing means. Each primary structural member has a generally
channel-shaped cross-sectional profile with an outer wall defining surface and two flanges
extending away from the outer wall defining surface. The securing means is configured to
retain pairs of primary structural members in a side-by-side relationship and secures adjacent
flanges of respective pairs of the primary structural members such that the adjacent flanges
are held together in secure face-to-face abutment.
FIG. 1

   1/14
            00
          o
      0
      000
C~C,

                                                -1
                               MODULAR WALLING SYSTEM
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]     This application is a divisional of Australian patent Application No. 2012269731
which claims convention        priority from Australian      Provisional Patent Application   No.
2011902388, filed 17 June 2011            and Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
2012900575, filed 16 February 2012. The entire content of the earlier related patent
applications is herein incorporated by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     The present invention relates generally to building systems and in particular to
modular building systems for single and multi-storey residential, commercial and industrial
buildings.
[0003]     The invention has been developed primarily as a modular walling system for use in
low rise buildings up to three stories in height and will be described hereinafter with reference
to this application. However, it will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to this
particular field of use and could be readily adapted for use in high-rise constructions such as
office buildings.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0004]     The following discussion of the prior art has been provided in order to place the
invention in an appropriate technical context and allow the advantages of it to be more fully
appreciated. However, any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should not
be considered as an express or implied admission that such prior art is widely known or forms
part of common general knowledge in the field.
[0005]     A variety of methods and systems have been developed for the construction of both
residential, commercial and industrial buildings. The systems used often vary depending on
whether the building is a single storey, low-rise or high-rise building.
[0006]     However, many building systems are inefficient to construct requiring highly skilled
labour and are thus highly expensive. Problems with existing building systems include the use
of wet trade processes and other complex construction techniques, concerns over

                                                 -2
environmental issues relating to the negative impact of pollution, and the high costs associated
with machinery and labour. In addition, building systems must comply with strict building
codes.
[0007]     Currently there is no single building system which adequately addresses all of the
abovementioned issues. In addressing these issues there is a continuing need to reduce the
cost of construction processes whilst improving or at least maintaining the performance levels
required by the building codes.
[0008]     The conventional cavity masonry wall is an example of a two-leaf wall which is
connected by masonry ties. A stud wall with interior and/or exterior sheeting, which are
mechanically connected, is an example of an attempt to reduce the cost of on-site labour.
[0009]     The cost of labour in in-situ construction of multi-layered walls is necessarily
dependent on the time required to complete the assembly process. In particular, the cost
primarily depends on the speed of assembly of each layer. Accordingly, there is a desire to
simplify the process of erecting a building so as to reduce the time required to complete a
construction and thus reduce the associated labour costs.
[0010]     Currently available modular building systems have a number of inherent problems
ranging from a lack of structural integrity to the inability to be readily adapted to various
designs.
[0011]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate one or more of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or at least to provide a useful alternative.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0012]     In broad terms, the present invention provides a modular walling system including a
plurality of primary structural members and a securing means for securing adjacent primary
structural members together to form a structural wall section.
[0013]      According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a modular walling
system, including:
           a plurality of primary structural members, each primary structural member having a
generally channel-shaped cross-sectional profile with an outer wall defining surface and two
flanges extending away from the outer wall defining surface; and

                                                -3
           securing means configured to retain pairs of primary structural members in a side
by-side relationship, wherein the securing means secures adjacent flanges of respective pairs
of the primary structural members such that the adjacent flanges are held together in secure
face-to-face abutment.
[0014]     For ease of description, the phrase "structural wall section" will be used herein to
refer to two or more primary structural members which have been secured together.
[0015]     Preferably, the securing means is configured to retain pairs of primary structural
members in a side-by-side relationship such that the respective outer wall defining surfaces
are generally contiguous. Preferably, the side-by-side outer wall defining surfaces define a
planar base surface to which a desired wall finish can be applied. In other embodiments, the
primary structural members and/or the securing means are configured such that the respective
outer wall defining surfaces of a pair of retained primary structural members are stepped,
staggered or offset relative to one another to provide a desired aesthetic effect.
[0016]     Preferably, each primary structural member is configured to be a load bearing
member of the walling system such that the primary structural members transfer the vertical
load acting on the wall to the ground or foundation on which the wall is constructed. Each
primary structural member is preferably longitudinal or elongate. Preferably, each primary
structural member has a length equal to the desired height of the wall so as to extend from the
ground to the desired roof height (or floor to ceiling height).
[0017]     Preferably, the outer wall defining surface and the two flanges of each primary
structural member are the same length. The outer wall defining surface and the two flanges
are preferably formed to have the same thickness as each other. In other embodiments, the
thickness of the outer wall defining surface can be thinner than the thickness of the two
flanges, or vice-versa.
[0018]     Preferably, the flanges of each primary structural member extend generally normal
(or perpendicular) to the associated outer wall defining surface such that two or more primary
structural members can be secured together to form a structural wall section having a
generally planar outer wall surface of a desired length (or span). In sorfie embodiments, the
flanges may have an outer flange surface which extends normal to the outer wall defining
surface and an inner flange surface which is angled relative to the outer flange surface for

                                                -4
setting a desired corner configuration or angle. The planar structural wall section can be
configured to be either an external wall section or an internal wall section of a building.
[0019]      In certain preferred embodiments, the primary structural members are formed of a
material selected from the group consisting of steel, timber, plastic, concrete, and fibre cement.
It will of course be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the primary structural members
are not limited to being formed of the above listed materials but may be formed of any suitable
building material, including naturally occurring and man-made materials. The primary structural
modules are preferably formed by a casting or extruding process.
[0020]      In some preferred forms of the walling system, each primary structural member may
be formed of the same material. However, in other preferred forms, some of the plurality of
primary structural members can be formed of one material whilst the other primary structural
members can be formed of one or more different materials to enable various aesthetic
appearances to be achieved, or to combat the expected climatic and/or environmental
conditions of a particular location and/or side of a building.
[0021]      In certain embodiments, the flanges of each primary structural member include a
linear array of apertures, each aperture being configured for accommodating an associated
securing means. The apertures are preferably equally spaced apart. The distance between the
top of the flange and the first aperture is preferably less than the equidistant spacing between
the apertures. Similarly, the lower most or bottom aperture is preferably located at a distance
above the bottom of the associated flange which is less than the equidistant spacing between
the apertures.
[0022]      It will be appreciated that the provision of a linear array of equally spaced apart
apertures enables the securing means to be secured to a particular or selected one of the
apertures, as desired. The arrays of apertures also ensure that the primary structural members
can be readily cut to a desired length to suit a particular building application. Accordingly, the
modular building system can be readily made to suit a particular design, rather than having the
design of a building dictated by the parts of the building system.
[0023]      The linear array of equally spaced apart apertures also enables a structural wall
section to be formed with primary structural members of varying lengths. A range of lengths
can be used to provide a desired aesthetic effect and/or to readily form openings, such as door
and window openings, in the structural wall section. In certain embodiments, cut-outs can also

                                                 -5
be made in the primary and secondary structural members to form the window and door
openings.
[0024]     Preferably, each aperture is a through opening. In preferred embodiments, each
aperture is circular. The through openings are preferably arranged such that, when pairs of
primary structural members are in face-to-face abutment, the apertures of adjacent flanges are
aligned, more preferably, coaxially aligned to define a passage for receiving a portion of the
securing means.
[0025]     Preferably, the securing means includes a locking member and a locking element
securable to a securing formation at the distal end of the locking member. The apertures in the
flanges of the primary structural members are preferably configured to have complementary
configurations to that of the locking member (e.g. tie). In one preferred embodiment, the tie is
in the form of a locking pin having a head and a shaft extending from the head, and the locking
element is in the form of a wedge. The securing formation at the end of the locking member is
preferably in the form of a slot, the slot being configured to securely receive and retain the
wedge in locking engagement.
[0026]     In other embodiments, the locking member may be in the form of a headless pin or
key and includes a securing formation at each end. The securing formations at the ends of the
headless key are preferably in the form of slots, each slot being configured to receive a wedge.
In various embodiments, the headless key has a cross-sectional profile which is one of round,
rectangular or square. Preferably, the headless key is tapered at both ends.
[0027]     Preferably, the securing means used to secure adjacent flanges of a pair of primary
structural members cooperates with the flanges (e.g. acts against) to securely hold the primary
structural members together. Preferably, the locking pin is dimensioned to be inserted into and
pass through an aligned pair of apertures formed in the flanges of the primary structural
members. Preferably, the head is dimensioned (i.e. enlarged) to limit the extent to which the
pin passes through the apertures. The enlarged head also advantageously acts to distribute
the force applied to the flange, as described in more detail below.
[0028]     Preferably, the shaft of the locking pin has a securing or receiving formation in the
form of, for example, a slot at its distal end for receiving the wedge. The cross -sectional profile
of the shaft is preferably one of round, rectangular or square. It has been found that round
shafts (together with complementary circular through openings in the flanges) advantageously

                                                 -6
facilitates ease of alignment and insertion of the shaft of the locking tie through the
openings in adjacent flanges.
[0029]     The distal end of the locking pin is preferably configured to act as a guide (e.g.
chamfered or tapered) to further facilitate passing the shaft through the respective mounting
holes in the support bracket and flanges of the primary structural members.
[0030]      Preferably, the wedges of the securing means have a tapered profile such that one
end is wider than the other. It will be appreciated that the tapered profile facilitates driving the
wedge into the slot of the ties, advantageously providing a self-fitting type characteristic to
match the size of the slot. This self -fitting characteristic ensures a simple, efficient and secure
locking of each wedge such that the wedge and the pin head (for a headed pin), or both
wedges (for a headless pin) tightly engage the respective sides of the flanges, holding it in
place and maintaining the secure face-to-face abutment of the abutting flanges of the primary
structural members.
[0031]     The locking elements (e.g. wedges) of the securing means exert relatively high
bearing stresses onto the side faces of the flanges. Preferably, the securing means includes at
least one force distributing element configured to be mounted between the flange and the
locking element (e.g. wedge) of the securing means for distributing the force applied by the
locking element on the flange of the associated primary structural member. The force
distributing element is preferably in the form of a spacer or washer-type member. In some
embodiments, the spacer is in the form of a cylindrical sleeve with a through bore for mounting
the spacer onto the shaft of the locking member (e.g. pin or tie).
[0032]      For embodiments making use of a headed pin it will be appreciated that the head of
the pin may act as a force distributing element at that end of the locking member and the
spacer/washer may be used behind the wedge at the other end such that the securing force
applied by the securing means is distributed on both of the retained flanges. In those
embodiments employing a headless pin, a washer may be used behind the wedges at each
end of the pin for distributing the forces applied to the respective flanges against which they
are abutting.
[0033]      Preferably, the spacer is positioned between the locking element and the closest
face of the respective flange of the primary structural member such that the locking element
bears against and lockihgly engages the spacer element against the flange so that the two
adjacent flanges are tightly held between the head of the locking pin and the spacer.

                                                -7
Preferably, the head of the locking pin and the spacer have bearing surfaces which define the
force distributing element to distribute the load applied to the respective faces of the flanges by
the securing means. The bearing surfaces preferably are in the form of a plate or disc having
an enlarged surface area for distributing the force applied by the securing means across that
surface area.
[0034]      In certain preferred embodiments, the head of each locking pin has a cylindrical
central body and a first circular plate at one end defining the bearing surface of the pin head
and a second circular plate member at its other end defining a stop.
[0035]      In some embodiments, the spacer has a hollow central cylindrical body defining a
sleeve so that the spacer can be positioned on to the protruding portion of the free end of the
locking pin extending from the pair of flanges through which it is inserted. The spacer includes
a first plate or disc member defining its bearing surface at one end of its body and a second
plate or disc member at its second end, the second plate member being arranged such that
the locking wedge bears against it as the wedge is driven into the slot to push the first plate
member of the spacer against the respective flange.
[0036]      Preferably, the head of the locking pin and the spacer/washer are formed to have the
same (external) shape/profile.
[0037]      Preferably, the securing means defines a mounting formation for mounting
secondary structural members to the structural wall section. Preferably, the mounting formation
is defined by the pin head and spacer of the securing means. In certain embodiments, the
cylindrical central bodies of the head and the spacer define mounting surfaces for the
secondary structural members, which together define the mounting formation.
[0038]      It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the securing means (i.e. the
locking pin, spacer and wedge assembly) acts in combination with the secure face-to-face
abutment of the flanges of the primary structural members to enhance the overall in-plane
shear capacity bf the wall. In particular, when the load -bearing structural wall section is
subjected to external forces (e.g. earthquake loads, wind loads) such that it is in racking shear,
the abutting flanges of the primary structural members together with the securing means
resists in-plane shear of the wall.

                                                -8
[0039]     Preferably, primary corner members are securable to the end of a structural wall
section. Each primary corner member is generally L-shaped. Preferably, each primary corner
member has a first flange securable to the adjacent flange of the primary structural member at
the end of the structural wall section and a second flange having an outer corner defining
surface extending perpendicular to the first flange.
[0040]     The first flange preferably has a linear arrange of apertures for cooperating with the
securing means. The linear array of apertures in the first flange of each primary comer
member preferably has the same configuration as the array of apertures in the flanges of the
primary structural members. Preferably, the securing means is located in the second aperture
down from the top and the second aperture up from the bottom to secure the primary comer
member to the adjacent flange of the respective primary structural member.
[0041]     The second flange of each primary comer member is preferably mitred to facilitate
alignment with an adjacent primary corner member of a mating wall section. Preferably, the
second flange is mitred at approximately 45 degrees. The mitre is preferably formed in the end
of the second flange. Each primary comer member is preferably configured such that it can be
used as a right hand comer member or a left hand corner member simply by inverting and
rotating the comer member, as required. In other embodiments, specific right- and left-hand
primary comer members can be provided. In some embodiments, the second flange may be
angled relative to the first flange so that mating second flanges form a desired corner
formation.
[0042]     It will be appreciated that separate planar structural wall sections secured to the
normal and tapered flanges of the corner can be used to form the various sides of a building.
For example, the planar structural wall sections can be used to form the front, back and sides
of a building, as desired.
[0043]     Preferably, a corner bracket is secured to mating primary corner members to connect
the respective structural wall sections together and provide structural integrity to the corner of
the building. A comer bracket is preferably secured to the top set of aligned apertures of each
primary corner module via a securing means. Preferably, each comer bracket is an L-shaped
angle bracket having two (preferably equal length) arms, with a hole in each arm positioned
and sized to align with the apertures in the flanges of the primary structural and corner
members for allowing passage of the locking pin of the securing means. In certain preferred
embodiments, a bracing member extends between the arms of the corner bracket to resist

                                                -9
deformation of the corner bracket under load. Each corner bracket is preferably formed of a
rigid material, such as a metal.
[0044]     The first flange of each primary corner member is preferably secured, via the
securing means, in face-to-face abutment with a flange of a primary structural wall member at
the end of a planar structural wall section.
[0045]     Preferably, certain of the primary structural members are fixed to the ground or
foundation on which the wall is constructed. In certain embodiments, a floor bracket is attached
to the flange of a primary structural member and fastened to the foundation by a suitable
fastening means. Each floor bracket is preferably an angle bracket having a first portion which
sits against the respective flange and a second portion which extends from the first portion so
as to sit (preferably flush) on the foundation. Preferably, the first portion has a hole so that the
tie of the securing means can pass through to secure the floor bracket to the flange and the
second portion has a hole through which a fastening member such as an anchor bolt can pass
to secure the floor bracket and thus the primary structural member to the foundation. It will be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that a floor bracket need not be secured to each primary
structural member. For example, in certain preferred embodiments, a floor bracket is secured
to every fourth primary structural member. A floor bracket is also preferably secured to each
end member to which a comer member is secured. It will be appreciated that additional floor
brackets can be used in, for example, earthquake or cyclone prone zones to increase the
structural integrity of the wall.
[0046]     Preferably, one or more secondary structural members are mounted oh the securing
means to form a secondary wall surface of the modular walling system. The secondary
structural members are advantageously configured to provide a generally planar secondary
wall surface. Preferably, the secondary structural members are mounted such that a wall cavity
is provided between the primary and secondary structural members of the building system. It
will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the wall cavity can be used to accommodate
a range of building service equipment such as, for example, electrical and plumbing lines,
and/or insulation.
[0047]     Each secondary structural member is preferably a load bearing member of the
modular walling system. In some embodiments, one or more of the secondary structural
members are arranged as non-load bearing members. In certain embodiments, the secondary
structural members act as internal cladding members.

                                               -10
[0048]     Preferably, each secondary structural member advantageously has the same
configuration as each primary structural         member. Each secondary structural member
preferably has a generally channel-shaped cross-sectional profile with an inner wall defining
surface and a pair of flanges extending away from the inner wall defining surface.
[0049]     Preferably, a mounting means is provided for interconnecting the associated primary
structural members with the secondary structural members such that the secondary structural
members are held in fixed spaced-apart relation relative to the primary structural members. In
some preferred embodiments, the mounting means enables the secondary structural members
to be mounted onto the securing means connecting the primary structural members.
[0050]     Preferably, the mounting means includes a plurality of support brackets. Each
support bracket is preferably releasably mountable to a respective secondary structural
member. Preferably, each support bracket has a main plate with two outer arms and two inner
arms extending outwardly from the main plate, the two outer arms being adapted for
connecting the support bracket to respective flanges of a secondary structural member and the
two inner arms defining engaging means for engaging the securing means to interconnect the
secondary structural member with the primary structural members. Each support bracket is
preferably configured such that the inner and outer arms extend in the same direction as the
flanges of the secondary structural member to which the support bracket is attached.
[0051]     Each of the two outer arms preferably has a protruding lug or tab dimensioned to fit
into an aperture in a flange of a secondary structural member to mount the support bracket.
The outer arms are preferably resiliently and outwardly biased to maintain the tab in the
respective aperture of the flange to which it is mounted, wherein the outer arms move inwardly
against the bias to fit and position the bracket during mounting.
[0052]     Preferably, the two inner arms are longer than the two outer arms. Each inner arm
preferably has a hook-type formation for hooking the secondary member onto the securing
means of the primary structural members. Preferably, the hook-type formation includes a
stepped cut-out to define a step, wherein the step acts as an initial contact point against the
securing means when mounting the secondary members thereto. The hook -type formation is
configured to point or open downwardly such that the inner arms sit on top of the mounting
surface of the head and spacer of the securing means, in use.

                                               -11
[0053]     Preferably, two support brackets are connected to each secondary structural
member, each support bracket being mounted in apertures corresponding with the position of
the securing means. In some embodiments, each support bracket is a one-piece construction.
In other embodiments, the main plate and the outer arms arm formed from a first piece of
material, and the two inner arms are formed from a second piece of material and connected to
the main plate.
[0054]     It will be appreciated that the support bracket provides the means for linking or
connecting together the load bearing primary structural wall section and the secondary
cladding wall section of the modular walling system, and retains the desired spaced
relationship therebetween.
[0055]     Preferably, the secondary structural members (cladding members) are configured
such that the flanges are spaced to lie at approximately the midpoint of the respective primary
structural members of the pair of primary structural members to which the cladding member is
mounted. The cladding members are preferably mounted to each pair of abutting flanges of the
primary structural members such that the inner wall defining surfaces are generally contiguous,
wherein the outer flanges of adjacent cladding members are close to or in face-to-face
abutment to thereby provide the generally planar secondary wall surface. The face-to-face
abutment of the flanges of the primary and secondary members advantageously provides a
self-bracing feature enhancing the structural integrity of the primary and secondary wall
sections, respectively.
[0056]     The secondary structural members are preferably formed of any suitable cladding
material selected from the group consisting of steel, timber, plastic, concrete, and fibre cement.
It will of course be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the secondary structural
members are not limited to being formed of the above listed materials but may be formed of
any suitable building material, including naturally occurring and man-made materials.
[0057]     In certain preferred embodiments, the secondary structural members include end
modules for forming an end wall surface for the secondary wall surface. Each end module
preferably has a generally L-shaped profile wherein the end module has a flange for abutting
against the flange of the next adjacent cladding member, and an end wall surface defining
panel extending from the flange to provide a square end to the secondary (inner) wall.
Preferably, each end module is essentially half a cladding member. The flange of each end
module preferably has a linear array of apertures for cooperating with the securing means so

                                                - 12
that the flange is securable to the adjacent flange of the secondary structural member at the
end of the secondary wall section.
[0058]     In some embodiments, the structural wall sections include one or more bracing
elements fixed to the primary structural members to provide structural support for long span
sections over wide openings in the structural wall section. The or each bracing element is
preferably a diagonal bracing element extending between the flanges of a primary structural
member. Preferably, the bracing elements are configured such that they can be secured in
place by the same securing means used to hold the primary structural members together.
Each bracing element preferably has tabs extending from its ends to facilitate securing of the
bracing element to the primary structural member. In certain embodiments, two bracing
elements can be arranged in a criss-cross type arrangement in the primary structural members
bounding the primary structural members spanning the opening. In various embodiments, the
bracing elements can be formed as a wire or thin strap.
[0059]     It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that, for those structural wall sections
without openings, or those where only relatively small spans across door or window openings
are required, there is no requirement to secure bracing elements to the primary structural
members as the secure face-to-face abutment of the flanges of these members resists lateral
forces acting on the wall section in a "self-bracing" manner.
[0060]     In certain embodiments, the modular building system includes a floor support for
supporting a floor such that a multi-storey building can be constructed. The floor can be any
suitable floor such as, for example, a concrete or timber floor.
[0061]     In some preferred embodiments, a roof bracket is secured to an upper end of one or
more pairs of adjacent flanges of primary structural members for supporting a roof structure on
the structural wall section. Preferably, a roof bracket is secured to every fourth pair of adjacent
flanges. Additional roof brackets can be used in earthquake or cyclone prone zones. A roof
bracket is preferably secured to each primary structural member to which a primary comer
module is secured. Each roof bracket is preferably secured in place via the same securing
means used to secure together the respective pair of adjacent flanges. Preferably, each roof
bracket is generally h-shaped having two spaced apart prongs for close fit mounting over the
adjacent flanges. Each prong has a hole positioned and sized to align with the apertures in the
flanges so as to allow passage of the tie pin of the securing means therethrough. A roof plate
preferably extends upwardly from one of the prongs so as to stand proud of the primary

                                                - 13
structural members of the wall section, wherein the roof plate has a hole' (or other formation) to
facilitate attachment to a member of the roof construction.
[0062]      According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a modular walling
system for forming a structural wall, the system including:
            a plurality of primary structural members adapted to be arranged in side -by-side
relation to form a primary side wall surface of the structural wall;
            a plurality of secondary structural members adapted to be arranged in side -by-side
relation to form a secondary side wall surface of the structural wall; and
            a plurality of support brackets, each support bracket being configured to interconnect
one or more primary structural members with one or more secondary structural members such
that the secondary structural members are held in fixed spaced-apart relation relative to the
primary structural members.
[0063]      In certain preferred embodiments, the primary structural members define an outer
wall surface and the secondary structural members define an inner wall surface, in use. In
other embodiments, the primary structural members define an inner wall surface and the
secondary structural members define an outer wall surface, in use.
[0064]      Preferably, the primary structural members are configured to act as load bearing
members of the structural wall. In various preferred embodiments, one or more of the
secondary structural members can act as load bearing members. In other preferred forms, the
secondary structural members act as non-load bearing members of the structural waif. In yet
other embodiments, a combination of load bearing and non-load bearing secondary structural
members are used.
[0065]      Each primary structural member preferably has a generally channel-shaped cross
sectional profile with a primary wall defining surface and two flanges extending away from the
wall defining surface. Preferably, each secondary structural member has a generally channel
shaped cross-sectional profile with a secondary wall defining surface and two flanges
extending away from the wall defining surface.
[0066]      The modular walling system preferably includes securing means for securing pairs of
primary structural members in side-by-side relation. Preferably, the securing means secures
each pair of primary structural members such that the respective primary wall defining surfaces
are substantially contiguous.

                                                  - 14
[0067]      Preferably, the securing means secures together pairs of primary structural members
such that adjacent flanges are held in secure face-to-face abutment.
[0068]     The securing means preferably includes a pin (or tie) for passing through adjacent
flanges of the primary structural members and a locking element securable to the end of the
pin to secure the pair of primary structural members together. In some embodiments, the pin
has a head at one end and a receiving formation at the other end for receiving the locking
element. The receiving formation is preferably a slot and the locking element is preferably a
wedge. In other forms, the pin is headless and has a receiving formation at each end,
preferably a slot at each end for receiving a wedge. Each wedge is preferably tapered to
provide a self-fitting characteristic to the pin and wedge combination.
[0069]      Preferably, the securing means includes at least one force distributing element
configured to be mounted behind the locking element (e.g. wedge) of the securing means for
distributing the force applied by the locking element on the flange of the associated primary
structural member. The force distributing element is preferably in the form of a spacer or
washer-type member. Preferably, the force distributing element is in the form of a cylindrical
sleeve with a through bore for mounting onto the tip end of the shaft of the locking pin.
[0070]      For embodiments making use of a headed pin it will be appreciated that the head of
the pin may act as a force distributing element at that end and the spacer/washer may be used
behind the wedge at the other end for distributing the force on that side. In those embodiments
employing a headless pin, a spacer/washer may be used behind the wedges at each end of
the pin for distributing the forces applied to the respective flanges against which they are
abutting.
[0071]      Preferably, the support brackets retain the primary and secondary structural
members such that the primary side wall surface and the secondary side wall surface are
substantially parallel to one another.
[0072]      In certain preferred     embodiments, the primary structural      members     and the
secondary structural members have the same cross-sectional profile. It will be appreciated by
those skilled in the art that using primary and secondary structural members of the same
general construction (i.e. members having the same cross-sectional profile) advantageously
reduces the costs associated with manufacturing the structural members as well as facilitating

                                               -15
more efficient in situ construction as the primary and secondary structural members of the
same length can be used interchangeably.
[0073]     Preferably, each support bracket is configured to be attached to an associated
structural member. In some embodiments, each support bracket is configured to be attached
to a primary structural member. In these embodiments, each support bracket has a mounting
means for mounting the primary structural member to one or more opposed secondary
structural members. To facilitate mounting of each support bracket to the secondary structural
members, a supporting element is preferably associated with the flanges of the secondary
structural members, wherein the mounting means engages the supporting element to hold the
primary and secondary structural members in the desired spaced-apart relation.
[0074]     In other embodiments, each support bracket is configured to be attached to a
secondary structural member. In these embodiments, each support bracket has a mounting
means for mounting the secondary structural member to one or more opposed primary
structural members. Preferably, in these embodiments, the mounting means is configured to
engage the securing means and mount the respective secondary structural member thereto.
The mounting means is preferably a hook-type formation. Preferably, the mounting means is
configured to engage (e.g. hook onto) the force distributing element of the securing means (i.e.
the pin head and the spacer).
[0075]     According to a third aspect of the invention, there is provided a support bracket for a
modular walling system having primary and secondary structural members, the support
bracket including:
           a base plate mountable to one of the primary (or secondary) structural members;
and
           at least one engaging means or connecting member extending from the base plate,
the or each connecting member being adapted for connection with a secondary (or primary)
structural member so as to interconnect the primary and secondary structural members such
that the secondary structural members are held in fixed spaced-apart relation relative to the
primary (or secondary) structural members.
[0076]     According to a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided a securing means for
a modular walling system, the securing means including:
           a locking member having an elongate body with a head at its proximal end and a
receiving formation at its distal end;

                                               - 16
           a spacer mountable onto the body of the locking member; and
           a locking element receivable in the receiving formation for securely retaining
modules of the modular walling system between the head and the spacer, wherein the locking
element bears against the spacer, in use.
[0077]     Preferably, the body is a cylindrical shaft. The distal end of the cylindrical shaft is
preferably configured to define a guide for feeding the shaft through flanges of the modules.
Preferably, the head and the spacer have the same external shape/profile as each other. The
head and the spacer preferably each have a main body and force distributing member at one
end of the main body. Preferably, the head and the spacer each have a stop of the other end
of the main body.
[0078]     According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a primary structural
member as described herein.
[0079]     According to a fifth aspect of the invention, there is provided a primary corner
member as described herein.
[0080]     According to a sixth aspect of the invention, there is provided a secondary corner
member as described herein.
[0081]     According to a seventh aspect of the invention, there is provided a corner system for
a modular walling system as described herein.
[0082]     According to a eighth aspect of the invention, there is provided a kit of parts for a
modular walling system, the kit including:
           a plurality of primary structural members; and
           securing means for securing pairs of primary structural members in a side-by-side
relationship.
[0083]     The kit preferably includes one or more of the following elements: a plurality of
secondary structural members; a plurality of support brackets; a plurality of corner brackets, a
plurality of floor brackets, a plurality of roof brackets, wherein the various elements are
interconnectable as described herein to form a structural wall of a building.

                                               - 17
[0084]     According to a ninth aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of erecting a
modular walling system, the method including:
           standing a pair of primary structural members side-by-side on a foundation; and
securing the pair of primary structural members together with a securing means, the securing
means engaging the flanges of the primary structural members.
[0085]     In embodiments according the ninth aspect, the securing means preferably includes
the locking pin, spacer and wedge assembly as described herein.
[0086]     According to a tenth aspect of the invention, there is provided a modular walling
system including:
           a plurality of primary structural members, each primary structural member having a
generally channel-shaped cross-sectional profile with an outer wall defining surface and two
flanges extending away from the outer wall defining surface;
           a plurality of support brackets, the support brackets being configured to retain pairs
of primary structural members in a side-by-side relationship such that the respective outer wall
defining surfaces are generally contiguous; and
           securing means for securing each support bracket to adjacent flanges of the
respective pairs of primary structural members such that the adjacent flanges are held together
in secure face-to-face abutment.
[0087]     In embodiments according to the tenth aspect of the invention, the support bracket
may be a generally U- or channel-shaped bracket configured to extend around the adjacent
longitudinal edges of abutting flanges of the primary structural members, more preferably, the
primary structural wall members. Each channel-shaped support bracket preferably has a web
and two side members extending from the web. Preferably, the side members are spaced
apart for close fitting engagement around the abutting flanges.
[0088]     The side members preferably include mounting holes through which the securing
means can secure the support bracket to the adjacent abutting flanges. Preferably, the
mounting holes for the securing means are located towards the distal end of the side members
such that they can be aligned with the passage of coaxially aligned apertures in the abutting
flanges of the primary structural members. The mounting holes are preferably positioned such
that the web is spaced from the flanges of the primary structural members to which the support
bracket is secured. That is, there is preferably a gap between the ends of the flanges of the
primary structural members and the web of the support bracket.

                                               -18
[0089]     The support brackets can be readily secured to the abutting flanges of the primary
structural members via any one of the passages defined by the aligned apertures of the linear
array of apertures in the flanges using the securing means discussed below. It will therefore be
appreciated that linear array of apertures in the flanges of the primary support members allows
the support bracket to be readily relocated to a desired position along the flanges to which it is
secured. In other forms, the support bracket is not limited to being secured at one of a number
of discrete positions determined by a linear array of apertures, but instead can be
advantageously adapted to be securely located at any desired point along the height of the
flange such as, for example, by sliding movement along the respective flanges. It will be
appreciated that the ability to relocate the support bracket along the length of the flanges
greatly enhances the versatility of the modular walling system. In particular, it enables the
secondary structural members described below to be mounted to the structural wall sections at
various desired positions relative to the primary structural members, including overlapping
positions (as opposed to matched height mounting of primary and secondary structural
members).
[0090]     Preferably, at least two support brackets are secured to each pair of abutting
flanges, with one support bracket preferably being arranged towards the top of the flanges and
one arranged towards the bottom of the flanges. In other forms, each support bracket can be
configured to span a predetermined number of passages such that two or more securing
means can be used to secure each support bracket to the flanges of the primary structural
members. It will thus be appreciated that the support brackets are not restricted to being
secured in one particular position on the flanges and thus can be readily positioned to join
together primary structural members of different lengths.
[0091]     In yet other forms, the support brackets can be approximately the same length
(height) as the flanges and can include an array of mounting holes corresponding to the array
of apertures in the flanges such that two or more securing means can be used to secure a
single support bracket to the flanges.
[0092]     In certain preferred embodiments, the support bracket is formed of a sheet metal
such as, for example, mild steel, stainless steel and aluminium. It will of course be appreciated
that the support bracket could be formed of other suitable materials not listed above, including
plastics.

                                               -19
[0093]     Preferably, each support bracket includes a mounting formation for supporting a
secondary     structural member      such as for example a cladding          member.     In certain
embodiments, the mounting formation is in the form of a pair of open ended slots, each slot
being formed in an upper edge of the respective side member of the support bracket. In other
preferred forms, the mounting formation is in the form of openings such as holes in the sides of
the support bracket. Preferably, the mounting formation is arranged close to or adjacent the
web of the support bracket such that the receiving formation lies between the web of the
support bracket and the ends of the flanges to which it is secured.
[0094]     In other preferred forms, the mounting formation is in the form of a projection
extending from a rear surface of the web of the support bracket. The rearward projection is
preferably T-shaped, but could be any suitable shape for supporting the secondary structural
member.
[0095]     In order to inhibit rotation of the support bracket about the securing means (and
relative to the flanges of the primary structural members), the support brackets can be
configured to reduce the size of the gap between the ends of the flanges and the web of the
support bracket. Alternatively, the web of the support bracket can be angled such that its lower
edge rests against the ends of the flanges whilst still providing a gap at the top for the securing
means. Another alternative includes the use of an additional pin through the sides of the
support bracket to inhibit rotation of the support bracket relative to the flanges of the primary
structural members.
[0096]     Accordingly, in embodiments of the tenth aspect of the invention, the support bracket
may serve the dual purpose of acting as a linking element between the two halves of the wall,
as well as acting as the shear connector between the modules of the load bearing structural
wall section.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0097]     A preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[0098]     Figure 1 shows a schematic plan view of a modular walling system according to the
invention, wherein the primary structural members forming a structural wall section have a
secondary structural member and secondary end module mounted thereto via the support
bracket.

                                               - 20
[0099]     Figure 2 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a primary structural member for a
modular walling system according to the invention;
[00100]    Figure 3 is a perspective view showing a pair of primary structural members secured
together with a securing means;
[00101]    Figure 4 is a perspective view of a planar structural primary wall section of the
modular walling system with a wall opening;
[00102]    Figure 5 shows a secondary structural member of the modular walling system with
two support brackets fitted thereto;
[00103]    Figure 6 shows a primary structural wall section and a secondary structural member
ready to be mounted thereto;
[00104]    Figure 7 shows the primary structural wall section of Figure 6 with the secondary
structural member mounted thereto;
[00105]    Figure 8 shows the lighted mating relationship between the opposite hand primary
corner members;
[00106]    Figure 9 shows a primary structural corner with one secondary structural member
and a secondary end module secured thereto mounted at the end of a first of the structural
wall sections of the corner, together with an opposite hand secondary structural/end module
ready for mounting to the other structural wall section;
[00107]    Figure 10 shows a complete comer system with mating primary comer modules and
opposite handed inner secondary end modules;
[00108]    Figure 11 shows an enlarged perspective view of a secondary structural member
with mounting brackets mounted thereto and a secondary end module connected via the
securing means;
[00109]    Figure 12 shows a completed modular wall with a free end and a window opening;
[00110]    Figure 13 shows a locking pin of the securing means;

                                              - 21
[00111]    Figure 14 shows a side and end view of a spacer of the securing means;
[00112]    Figure 15 shows a locking wedge of the securing means;
[00113]    Figure 16 shows the securing means of the modular walling system;
[00114]    Figure 17 shows a top view and a front view of a support bracket for interconnecting
the primary and secondary structural members;
[00115]    Figure 18 shows a floor bracket for connecting the primary structural members to the
ground or foundation on which the wall is erected;
[00116]    Figure 19 shows a close up view of the floor bracket of Figure 18 held in place with
the locking pin of the securing means;
[00117]    Figure 20 shows a perspective view of the roof bracket of the modular walling
system;
[00118]    Figure 21 shows the roof bracket of Figure 20 secured in place over flanges of
adjacent primary structural members and secured in place via the securing means;
[00119]    Figure 22 shows a comer bracket for connecting together mating primary corner
members;
[00120]    Figure 23 shows a top view of the corner bracket of Figure 22 secured in place via
the securing means;
[00121]    Figure 24 shows a top view of the locking pin of the securing means;
[00122]    Figure 25 shows a cross-sectional view of adjacent flanges of primary structural
members secured together with a securing means;
[00123]    Figure 26 shows a top view of the cross-sectional profile of either a primary structural
member or a secondary structural member;
[00123] Figure 27 shows the cross-sectional profile of an embodiment of a primary
corner module;

                                              - 22
[00124]    Figure 28 shows the cross-sectional profile of the secondary corner / end module;
[00125]    Figure 29 shows the two inner arms of the support bracket formed from a single
piece of material;
[00126]    Figure 30 shows a plan view of the main body and the outer arms with the protruding
lugs of the support bracket;
[00127]    Figure 31 shows an upside down perspective view of the support bracket;
[00128]    Figure 32 is an enlarged schematic plan view showing the securing arrangement of
the flanges of adjacent primary structural members and a secondary structural member
mounted to a support bracket in an alternative embodiment of the modular walling system; and
[00129]    Figure 33 is a perspective view of the support bracket of the embodiment of the
modular walling system shown in Figure 32.
PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE INVENTION
[00130]    Referring to the drawings, the invention provides a modular walling system 1 having
a plurality of longitudinal primary structural members 2. The modular walling system 1 is
preferably assembled and arranged such that the primary structural members 2 form the outer
or external load bearing members of the walling system.
[00131]    As seen in Figure 2, each primary structural member 2 has a generally channel
shaped cross-sectional profile with an outer wall defining surface 3 and two flanges 4
extending away from the outer wall defining surface 3. The flanges 4 preferably extend along
the entire length of each primary structural member 2.
[00132]    Each flange 4 of the primary structural members 2 includes a linear array of
apertures in the form of cylindrical through-bores 5 for cooperating with a securing means 6 for
securing together pairs of primary structural members. The apertures 5 are equally spaced
apart along the length of the respective flange 4. The apertures 5 are arranged such that when
pairs of primary structural members 2 are in face-to-face abutment, the apertures 5 of adjacent
flanges 4 are coaxially aligned to define a passage for receiving a portion of the securing
means 6.

                                                 - 23
[00133]      The securing means 6 includes a locking member in the form of a locking pin 7, a
spacer 8 and a locking element in the form of a wedge 9. As most clearly shown in Figure 3,
the securing means 6 is secured to adjacent flanges 4 of a pair of primary structural members
2 to retain the primary structural members in a side-by-side relationship such that the
respective outer wall defining surfaces 3 are generally contiguous, thereby defining a generally
planar structural wall section.
[00134]      In the illustrated embodiment, one securing means is securely located towards the
top of the abutting flanges 4 and a second securing means is securely located towards the
bottom of the flanges 4 to form a structural wall section.
[00135]      Referring to Figures 13 to 16, the locking pin 7 has a cylindrical shaft body 12 with a
head 10 at one end and a securing formation in the form of a slot 11 at the other end for
receiving the wedge 9. As shown in Figures 15 and 16, the wedge 10 of the securing means
has a tapered profile such that one end is wider than the other. It will be appreciated that the
tapered profile facilitates driving the wedge 9 into the slot 11 of the locking pin 7 and provides
a self-fitting type characteristic to match the size of the slot 11 for secure locking engagement.
[00136]      In addition, the length of the slot 11 is such that, in combination with the self-fitting
characteristic of the wedge 9, additional brackets (e.g. floor or corner brackets) can be secured
onto the locking pin 7 without requiring a selection of pins of different lengths to accommodate
the thickness of the additional brackets. The wedge 9 simply fits into the available length slot to
securely engage the various components and retain these in place.
[00137]      It can also be seen in Figures 13 and 24 that the distal end of the locking pin shaft
body 12 is tapered to form a guide 13 for the locking pin 7 to facilitate inserting the pin into the
apertures 5 of the flanges 4.
[00138]      Referring to Figures 14 and 16, the spacer 8 of the securing means 6 is shown. The
spacer 8 is in the form of a cylindrical sleeve 14 having a through bore 15 for mounting the
spacer 8 onto the shaft 12 of the locking pin 7. The cylindrical sleeve 14 has a first plate 16 for
distributing the securing force of the securing means 6 applied to the respective flange 4 to
which it is secured. The spacer 8 also includes a second stop plate 16* at the opposite end of
the sleeve 14.

                                                - 24
[00139]    With reference to Figure 24, it can be seen that the pin head 10 advantageously has
the same outer profile shape as the spacer 8. It particular, the pin head 10 has a cylindrical
body 17 with a first plate 18 for distributing the securing force applied to the respective flange
to which it abuts and a second stop plate 19.
[00140]    The spacer 8 and pin head 10 together define a mounting means for mounting a
second structural member 20. The portion of the cylindrical bodies (14, 17) between the
respective first and second plates defines a mounting surface 21 on which the secondary
structural members 20 can be connected. Figure 16 shows a complete securing means 6.
[00141]    Figure 3 shows two securing means 6 securing a pair of primary structural members
2 together in a side-by-side relationship such that the adjacent flanges 4 are abutting each
other and the outer wall defining surfaces 3 form a generally planar outer wall surface. It can
be seen that force distributing plates (15, 18) abut against the respective flanges. In the
illustrated embodiment, one securing means 6 is secured to the top set of apertures and a
second securing means 6 is secured to the bottom set of apertures.
[00142]    As shown in Figure 4, a structural wall section of a desired length can be constructed
by securing a number of primary structural members 2 together to form the wall section. The
wall section of Figure 4 includes primary structural members with cut-outs 22 for forming a
window opening 23. Additional securing means are preferably fitted to the flanges about the
opening for increased structural integrity around the window opening 23.
[00143]    Referring now to Figures 9 and 23, a corner system for adjoining two primary
structural wall sections to form a comer of a building is shown. The corner system includes L
shaped primary structural corner members 24 having a first flange 25 with an array of
apertures 26 in the same formation as that on the flanges 4 of the primary corner members 2,
and a second flange 27 defining an outer comer surface. As most clearly shown in Figure 23,
the second flange 27 has a 45-degree mitred end 28 to facilitate abutment with the adjoining
primary corner member 24. Figures 8 and 9 shown left-hand and right-hand primary corner
members connected to primary corner members 2 and brought together to form a corner of a
building.
[00144]    In these Figures it can be seen that the upper securing means 6 is secured in the
second row of apertures (rather than the top) of the associated primary corner member 25. As
shown in Figure 23, this enables an L-shaped comer bracket 29 to be secured with securing

                                               - 25
means 6 to the upper most apertures 26 of the primary corner members to secure the left- and
right-hand corner members together.
[00145]    Figure 22 shows the corner bracket 29. The corner bracket 29 has two equal length
arms 30 extending perpendicular to each other. Each arm 30 has a hole 31 positioned to align
with the apertures 26 in the flange 25 of the primary corner member 24 and sized to allow
passage of the locking pin shaft 12. Each corner bracket 29 has a bracing member 32 for
resisting deformation of the comer bracket under load.
[00146]    Figure 18 shows a floor bracket 33 for connecting primary structural members 2 to
the foundation on which the building is constructed. The floor bracket 33 is an L-shaped
bracket having a first flange 34 for sitting against the flange 4 of the associated primary
structural member 2 and a second flange 35 extending perpendicular to the first flange to rest
substantially flush with the foundation. The first flange 34 of the floor bracket 33 has a hole 36
positioned and sized to align with the lower most aperture in the flange 4 and allow passage of
a locking pin shaft 12 such that the floor bracket 33 can be secured to the flange 4 via a
securing means 6, as shown in Figure 19. The second flange 35 has a hole 37 through which
an anchor bolt (not shown) can pass for securing the floor bracket 33 to the foundation. A floor
bracket 33 is preferably secured to every fourth primary structural member 2. A floor bracket
33 should be secured to each primary structural member 2 connected to a primary corner
member 24.
[00147]    Referring now to Figures 5 and 26, it can be seen that each secondary structural
member 20 has a generally channel-shaped cross-sectional profile.
[00148]    In the illustrated embodiment, the primary structural members 2 and the secondary
structural members advantageously have the same cross-sectional profile and, preferably, are
formed of the same material. The primary structural members 2 and the secondary structural
members 20 are arranged with the inner profiles facing each other. The primary and secondary
structural sections are offset from each other such that the abutting flanges of adjacent
secondary     structural members     are positioned     at approximately the      midpoint of the
corresponding primary structural member.
[00149]    It will be appreciated that the use of primary and secondary structural members of
the same form reduces manufacturing costs and increases the efficiency of construction of a

                                                 - 26
wall using the modular walling system. The secondary structural members 20 are preferably
 used to form the inner loading bearing members of the structural wall.
 [00150]     Each secondary structural member 20 has an inner wall defining surface 38 and a
 pair of flanges 39 extending away from the inner wall defining surface 38.
 [00151]     Figure 28 shows an end module 40 to be connected to a secondary structural
 member 20 for forming an internal corner of the wall system to adjoin internal side walls. As
clearly shown in Figure 11, each end module 40 has a generally L-shaped cross-sectional
 profile having a first flange 41 with a set of apertures 42 corresponding to the apertures in the
flanges of the secondary structural members and a second flange 43 defining an inner end
wall surface 44. The second flange 43 of each end module 40 preferably is reinforced at its
distal end to provide additional rigidity to the end the second flange 43.
 [00152]     As shown in Figure 10, the end modules 40 can be configured as right-hand or left
 hand members to form the respective parts of the internal corner. The end modules 40 are
secured to the secondary structural members using the securing means. One securing means
6 is provided in the second from top apertures and one securing means is secured in the
second from bottom apertures. As will be described below, this allows a support bracket 44 to
 be mounted to the uppermost and lowermost apertures of the secondary structural members
20. Figure 9 shows one secondary structural member 20 with an end module 40 mounted to
the primary structural members 2 forming a first side of a building. Figure 10 shows a
completed internal comer with secondary structural members with end modules mounted to
two primary side walls joined via a corner system as described above. Figure 19 shows an end
 module 40 used to form an end of a straight wall section.
 [00153]     Referring to Figure 17, a support bracket 44 for interconnecting the primary and
secondary structural members is shown. As shown in Figure 5, a support bracket 44 is
 mountable to the uppermost and lowermost apertures in the flanges of each secondary
structural member 20 so as to correspond with the mounting position of the securing means 6
joining the primary structural members 2 together.
 [00154]     The support bracket 44 has a main plate 45 with two outer arms 46 and two inner
arms 47. Each outer arm 46 has a protruding lug 48 extending outwardly thereform and
dimensioned to fit into the apertures in the flanges of the secondary structural members. To
 install the support brackets 44, the outer arms 46 and flexed inwardly to allow the bracket to be

                                              - 27
pushed in and towards the back of the secondary structural member. When in protruding lugs
48 come into line with the apertures, the outer arms 46 spring outwardly to bear against the
respective flange such that lugs enter the aperture to retain the support bracket 44 in position.
[00155]    The two inner arms 47 are longer than the two outer arms 46 and are configured to
have a hook-type formation 53 for hanging the secondary structural member 20 on the
mounting surface 21 of the securing means 6. The hook formation 53 faces downwardly so
that the inner arms 47 sit on top of the securing means. As most clearly shown in Figures 1
and 6, the support bracket 44 interconnects and retains the primary and secondary structural
members in a fixed spaced apart relationship such that the outer planar wall surface defined by
the primary structural members and the inner planar wall surface defined by the secondary
structural members are substantially parallel to each other.
[00156]    In the embodiment shown in Figure 6, the inner arms of the support bracket 44 have
a stepped hook-formation. The first step is advantageously used during installation and the
second step is the point of contact between the securing means and the inner arms when the
secondary structural member is mounted in position as shown in Figure 7.
[00157]    Referring now to Figures 20 and 21, a roof bracket 49 securable via a securing
means 6 to the upper end of adjacent flanges 4 of the primary structural members 2 is shown.
The roof bracket 49 is h-shaped having a two spaced apart prongs 50 for close fit mounting
over the adjacent flanges of the primary structural members. Each prong 50 has a hole 51
positioned and sized to align with the apertures in the flanges so as to allow passage of the
locking pin shaft 12 therethrough. A roof plate 51 extends upwardly from one of the prongs so
as to stand proud of the primary structural members 2 of the wall section. The roof plate 51
has a hole 52 to secure the roof in place.
[00158]    As described above, the slot 11 in the locking pin 7 is dimensioned to be long
enough such that the wedge 9 can still be received in the slot despite the extra material
thickness of the roof bracket.
[00159]    Figures 32 and 33 show an alternative embodiment of the modular walling system in
which the support bracket is configured to retain pairs of primary structural members in a side
by-side relationship such that the respective outer wall defining surfaces are generally
contiguous. In this embodiment, the securing means secures each support bracket to adjacent

                                              - 28
flanges of the respective pairs of primary structural members such that the adjacent flanges
are held together in secure face-to-face abutment.
[00160]    Accordingly, the present invention, at least in its preferred embodiments, provides a
robust and versatile modular walling system which can be readily assembled with relatively
unskilled labour. The elements of preferred embodiments of the modular walling system can
be easily interconnected in a secure fashion to ensure the structural integrity of the assembled
building without the need for heavy equipment or tools. Preferred embodiments of the modular
walling system reduce the need for wet construction processes thus enabling an assembled
wall to be easily dismantled for access to the wall cavity for maintenance and repair of internal
building services, or to readily modify the design of the building. The dismantled elements of
the system can be re-used due to the use of dry mechanical connections, with no glue or
mortar being used. In addition, preferred embodiments of the modular walling system can be
advantageously used to construct walls and buildings which have high thermal efficiency
ratings. It should also be appreciated that the modular walling system is not limited to
producing only the external walls of a building, but could be readily used to construct internal
walls throughout a building to, for example, divide a space into one or more areas or rooms as
desired. In these and other respects, the invention in its preferred embodiments, represents a
practical and commercially significant improvement over the prior art.
[00161]    Although the invention has been described with reference to specific examples, it will
be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many other
forms.

                                                - 29
CLAIMS
1.         A modular walling system, including:
            a plurality of primary structural members, each primary structural member having a
generally channel-shaped cross-sectional profile with an outer wall defining surface and two
flanges extending away from the outer wall defining surface; and
            securing means configured to retain pairs of primary structural members in a side
by-side relationship, wherein the securing means secures adjacent flanges of respective pairs
of the primary structural members such that the adjacent flanges are held together in secure
face-to-face abutment.
2.         A modular walling system according to claim 1, wherein the flanges of each primary
structural member include a linear array of apertures, each aperture being configured for
accommodating an associated securing means.
3.         A modular walling system according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the securing
means includes a locking member and a locking element securable to a securing formation at
the distal end of the locking member.
4.         A modular walling system according to claim 3, wherein the locking member is a
locking pin having a head and a shaft extending from the head.
5.         A modular walling system according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the securing
formation is a slot configured for securely receiving the locking member.
6.         A modular walling system according to any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein the locking
element is a wedge.
7.         A modular walling system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
securing means includes at least one force distributing element for distributing the force
applied by the securing means on the flange of the associated primary structural member.
8.         A modular walling system according to claim 7, wherein the force distributing
element is a spacer or washer-type member mountable onto the shaft of the locking member.

                                                - 30
9.         A modular walling system according to any one of the preceding claims, including
one or more primary comer members securable to an end of a structural wall section formed
by two or more secured primary structural members.
10.        A modular walling system according to any one of the preceding claims, including
one or more secondary structural members mountable on the securing means to form a
secondary wall surface of the modular walling system.
11.        A modular walling system according to claim 10, wherein each secondary structural
member has the same configuration as each primary structural member.
12.        A modular walling system according to claim 10 or claim 11, including a mounting
means for interconnecting the secured primary structural members with the secondary
structural members such that the secondary structural members are held in fixed spaced
apart relation relative to the primary structural members.
13.        A modular walling system according to claim 12, wherein the mounting means
enables the secondary structural members to be mounted onto the securing means connecting
the primary structural members.
14.        A modular walling system according to claim 12 or claim 13, wherein the mounting
means includes a plurality of support brackets, each support bracket is releasably mountable
to a respective secondary structural member.
15.        A modular walling system according to claim 14, wherein each support bracket has a
main plate with two outer arms and two inner arms extending outwardly from the main plate,
the two outer arms being adapted for connecting the support bracket to respective flanges of a
secondary structural member and the two inner arms defining engaging means for engaging
the securing means to interconnect the secondary structural member with the primary
structural members.
16.        A modular walling system according to claim 15, in which each outer arm has a
protruding lug for mounting the associated support bracket to apertures in flanges of the
associated secondary structural member.
17.        A modular walling system according to claim 15 or claim 16, wherein the outer arms
are resiliently and outwardly biased to maintain the tabs in the respective apertures of the

                                                - 31
flanges to which the support bracket is mounted, the outer arms being adapted to move
inwardly against the bias to fit and position the bracket during mounting.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
