                                           ABSTRACT
  A device configured to sense a touch on a surface of the device. The device includes a
  cover and a force-sensing structure disposed below the cover. The force-sensing structure
  may be positioned below a display and used in combination with other force-sensing
5 elements to estimate the force of a touch on the cover of a device.

      FORCE DETERMINATION EMPLOYING SHEET SENSOR AND CAPACITIVE ARRAY
   Cross-Reference to Related Applications
   [0001]     This Patent Cooperation Treaty patent application claims priority to U.S.
   Provisional Patent Application No. 62/047,645, filed September 8, 2014 and titled "Force
 5 Determination Employing Sheet Sensors and Capacitive Array," U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application No. 61/941,988, filed February 19, 2014 and titled "Force Determination
   Employing Sheet Sensors and Capacitive Array," and U.S. Provisional Patent Application
   No. 61/939,252, filed February 12, 2014 and titled "Force Determination Employing Multiple
   Force-Sensing Structures," the disclosure of each of which is incorporated by reference in its
 0 entirety.
   [0001 A]      Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2015/015451
   (published as WO 2015/123322), filed on 11 February 2015.
   Technical Field
   [0002]     This application generally relates to systems and methods sensing the force of a
 5 touch, and in particular to a capacitive force sensor integrated with a device for detecting
   and measuring the amount or magnitude of a touch applied to a surface of the device.
   Background
   [0003]     Touch devices can be generally characterized as devices that are capable of
   receiving touch input on the surface of the device. The input may include the location of one
 O or more touches on the device, which may be interpreted as a command, gesture, or other
   type of user input. In one example, touch input on a touch device may be relayed to an a
   computing system and used to interpret user interaction with a graphical user interface
   (GUI), including, for example, selecting elements on a display, reorienting or repositioning
   elements on a display, entering text, and user input. In another example, touch input on a
25 touch device may be relayed to a computer system and used to interpret a user's interaction
   with an application program. The user's interaction may include, for example, the
   manipulation of audio, video, photographs, presentations, text, and the like.
   [0004]     Typically, touch input on a touch device is limited to the location of a touch on the
   device. However, in some cases, it may be advantageous to also detect and measure the
30 force of a touch that is applied to the device. For example, it might be advantageous for a
   user to be able to manipulate a computer-generated object on a display in a first way using a
   relatively light touch and, alternatively, interact with the object a second way using a
   relatively heavy or sharper touch. By way of example, it might be advantageous for a user to
                                                      I1

   move a computer-generated object on the display using a relatively light touch and then,
   alternatively, select or invoke a command with respect to the same computer using a
   relatively heavy or sharper touch. More generally, it might be advantageous for the user to
   be able to provide input in multiple ways depending on the force of the touch. For example,
 5 a user may provide input that is interpreted a first way for a light touch, a second way for a
   medium touch, and a third way for a heavy touch, and so on. Additionally, it might be
   advantageous for the user to be able to provide an analog input using a varying amount of
   force. This type of input may be useful for controlling, for example, a gas pedal on a
   simulated car or a control surface of an airplane in a flight simulator, or similar applications.
 0 It may be further advantageous for the user to be able to provide input, such as simulated
   body movements or otherwise, in a virtual reality (VR) simulation (possibly with haptic
   feedback), or in an augmented reality program. It might be further advantageous to use the
   force of a touch to interpret the relative degree (e.g., force) and locations of multiple touches
   that are provided to multiple user interface objects or elements that are in use on a touch
 5 device at the same time. For example, the force of a touch could be used to interpret
   multiple touches due to a user pressing more than one element in an application for playing
   a musical instrument. In particular, the force of multiple touches may be used for interpreting
   multiple touches by a user on the keys of a piano. Similarly, the force of multiple touches
   can be used to interpret a user's multiple touches in an application for controlling a motor
 O vehicle (having separate controls for accelerating, braking, signaling, and turning).
   Summary
   [0005]     This application provides techniques, which can be used to measure or determine
   the amount or magnitude of force applied, and changes in the amount or magnitude of force
   applied, by a user contacting a touch device (such as a touch-sensitive surface, one
25 example of which is a touch display), or other pressure-sensitive input elements (such as a
   virtual analog control or keyboard), or other input device. These techniques can be
   incorporated into various devices using touch recognition, touch elements of a GUI, and
   touch input or manipulation in an application program, such as touch devices, touch pads,
   and touch screens. This application also provides systems and techniques that can be used
30 to measure or determine the amount or magnitude of force applied, and changes in the
   amount or magnitude of force applied, by the user when contacting a touch device, and in
   response thereto, provide additional functions available to a user of a touch device.
   [0006]     Certain embodiments described herein are directed to a force sensor, also referred
   to as a "force-sensing structure" or a "force sensitive sensor." The force sensor may be
35 integrated with the housing of an electronic device, one example of which is a touch
                                                    01

    sensitive electrical device or simply a touch device. A sample force sensor may include an
    upper portion and a lower portion separated by a compressible element or by an air gap.
    The upper portion may include an upper body connected to an upper capacitive plate and
    the lower portion may include a lower body connected to a lower capacitive plate. In some
 5  cases, the upper portion and the lower portion form a capacitor that can be used to measure
    or detect an amount or magnitude of applied force. The compressible element is typically
    formed form a compliant or springy material. In some cases, the compressible element is
    referred to as a deformablee middle body," an intermediate element, or a "compressible
    layer." In some cases, the force sensor includes other force-sensing elements, such as a
 0  resistive strain gauge, piezoelectric element, and the like.
    [0007]      Some example embodiments are directed to an electronic device having a cover, a
    display positioned below the cover, and a force-sensing structure disposed below the
    display. The force-sensing structure may include an upper capacitive plate, a compressible
    element disposed on one side of the upper capacitive plate, and a lower capacitive plate
 5  disposed on a side of the compressible element that is opposite the upper capacitive plate.
    The force-sensing structure may also include a plate affixed to and supporting the force
    sensing structure. In some embodiments, the electronic device also includes sensing
    circuitry that is operatively coupled to the force-sensing structure. The sensing circuitry may
    be configured to estimate the force of a touch on the cover based on a change in
 '0 capacitance between the upper capacitive plate and the lower capacitive plate of the force
    sensing structure.
    [0008]      In some embodiments, the force-sensing structure is separated from the display by
    a compliant layer including an air gap. In some cases, the force-sensing structure is
    separated from the display by a compliant layer comprised of compressible foam. The force
25  sensing structure may be separated from the display by a compliant layer comprised of an
    array of compliant pillars and an optically transparent fluid.
    [0009]      In some embodiments, the electronic device also includes a housing having a
    bezel surrounding the cover and a gasket disposed in a gap between the cover and the
    bezel. The device may also include an oleophobic coating disposed over at least a portion
30  of the gap.
    [0010]      Some example embodiments are directed to an electronic device including a
    housing, a cover disposed within an opening of the housing, and a strain-sensitive gasket
    disposed between the cover and the housing along a perimeter of the cover. The device
    may also include a force-sensing structure disposed below the cover. The device may also
35  include a plate fixed relative to the housing and supporting the force-sensing structure. In
                                                     Q

    some cases, the strain-sensitive gasket includes a gasket upper capacitive plate, a gasket
    lower capacitive plate, and a gasket compressible element disposed between the gasket
    upper capacitive plate and the gasket lower capacitive plate.
    [0011]     In some embodiments, the electronic device also includes a display disposed
 5  between the cover and the force-sensing structure, and a compressible layer comprising an
    air gap between the display and the force-sensing structure. In some implementations, the
    air gap of the compressible layer is configured to at least partially collapse in response to a
    force of a touch that exceeds a first threshold. The first threshold may be less than a second
    threshold that corresponds to a maximum force that can be detected by the strain-sensitive
 0  gasket.
    [0012]     In some embodiments, the electronic device also includes a display disposed
    between the cover and the force-sensing structure, and a compressible layer between the
    display and the force-sensing structure. In some cases, the compressible layer may be
    configured to at least partially collapse in response to a force of a touch that exceeds a first
 5  threshold. The first threshold may be less than a second threshold that corresponds to a
    maximum force that can be detected by the strain-sensitive gasket.
    [0013]     In some embodiments, the force-sensing structure includes: an upper capacitive
    plate, a lower capacitive plate; and a compressible element disposed between the upper
    capacitive plate and the lower capacitive plate. In some embodiments, the force-sensing
 '0 structure includes a strain gauge and/or a piezoelectric element.
    [0014]     Some example embodiments are directed to an electronic device including a
    cover, a capacitive sense layer positioned below the cover, and a compressible layer below
    the capacitive sense layer. In some embodiments, the compressible layer comprises an air
    gap. The electronic device may also include a force-sensing structure disposed below the
25  compressible layer, which includes an upper capacitive plate, a compressible element
    disposed on one side of the upper capacitive plate, and a lower capacitive plate disposed on
    a side of the compressible element that is opposite the upper capacitive plate. Some
    embodiments include a plate positioned below the force-sensing structure and supporting
    the force-sensing structure.
30  [0015]     In some embodiments, the electronic device includes a display positioned below
    the cover. The device may also include a backlight positioned below the display. The
    capacitive sense layer may be disposed between the display and the backlight.
    [0016]     In some embodiments, the electronic device includes sensing circuitry that is
    operatively coupled to the capacitive sense layer and the force-sensing structure. The
                                                     A

    sensing circuitry may be configured to estimate the force of a touch on the cover based on a
    change in mutual capacitance between the capacitive sense layer and the upper capacitive
    plate of the force-sensing structure. In some embodiments, the sensing circuitry may be
    configured to obtain a first capacitance between the upper capacitive plate and the lower
 5  capacitive plate of the force sensing structure. The circuitry may also be configured to
    obtain a second capacitance between the upper capacitive plate and the capacitive sense
    layer. The circuitry may also be configured to generate an estimate of a force of a touch on
    the cover using the first and second capacitances.
    [0017]     While multiple embodiments are disclosed, including variations thereof, still other
 0  embodiments of the present disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from
    the following detailed description, which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the
    disclosure. As will be realized, the disclosure is capable of modifications in various obvious
    aspects, all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.
    Accordingly, the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature
 5  and not restrictive.
    Brief Description of the Drawings
    [0018]     FIG. 1 depicts an example touch device.
    [0019]     FIG. 2A depicts a cross-sectional view taken along line 1-1 of FIG. 1, of an
    example touch device having a force-sensing structure.
 '0 [0020]     FIG. 2B depicts a cross-sectional view taken along line 1-1 of FIG. 1, of an
    example touch device having an alternative force-sensing structure.
    [0021]     FIG. 3 depicts a cross-sectional view taken along line 2-2 of FIG. 2, of an example
    touch device having a force-sensing structure.
    [0022]     FIG. 4 depicts a cross-sectional view taken along line 2-2 of FIG. 2, of an example
25  touch device having a force-sensing structure.
    [0023]     FIG. 5 depicts a cross-sectional view taken along line 2-2 of FIG. 2, of an example
    touch device having a force-sensing structure.
    [0024]     FIG. 6 depicts a cross-sectional view of an embodiment of a touch device having a
    capacitive force sensor.
30  [0025]     FIG. 7 depicts another embodiment of a touch device having a capacitive force
    sensor.

   [0026]     FIG. 8 depicts a cross sectional view of another embodiment of a touch device
   having a capacitive force sensor.
   [0027]     FIG. 9 depicts an exemplary communication between a touch 1/O device and a
   computing system.
 5 [0028]     FIG. 10 depicts a schematic of a system including a force sensitive touch device.
   [0029]     FIG. 11 A depicts an example method of operation.
   [0030]     FIG. 11 B depicts another example method of operation.
   [0031]     FIG. 12 depicts a force-sensitive structure having an electrical connector tail.
   [0032]     FIG. 13 depicts a cross-sectional view of an electrical connector tail.
 0 [0033]     FIG. 14 depicts an example method of manufacturing a force-sensitive structure
   having an electrical connector tail.
   [0034]     FIG. 15A depicts a sample cross-section of another force-sensitive structure
   incorporated into an electronic device.
   [0035]     FIG. 15B depicts a sample cross-section of still another force-sensitive structure
 5 incorporated into an electronic device.
   [0036]     FIG. 15C depicts a sample cross-section of yet another force-sensitive structure
   incorporated into an electronic device.
   [0037]     FIGS. 15D-15E depict a portion of the cross-section of FIG. 15C in greater detail.
   [0038]     FIG. 16 depicts a sample cross-section of an electronic device incorporating two
20 force-sensitive structures.
   [0039]     FIG. 17 depicts a sample cross-section of an electronic device incorporating a
   multi-layered sheet force sensor, coupled with a capacitive sensing array positioned in a
   display stack.
   Detailed Description
25 [0040]     Generally, embodiments may take the form of an electronic device capable of
   sensing force and distinguishing between multiple different levels of force, beyond simple
   binary sensing. Some embodiments may have an enclosure incorporating a force sensor
   therein (e.g., a force-sensitive sensor, a force-sensing element, or force-sensing structure).

   The force sensor may be incorporated in, for example in a groove, cutout, or aperture
   formed in one or more sidewalls or other surfaces of the device. The force-sensing element
   may extend along an entire periphery, sidewall, or set of sidewalls in certain embodiments.
   For example, the force sensor may encircle an interior cavity formed within the device, or
 5 may otherwise extend around an interior of the device. As force is exerted on an exterior of
   the device, such as an upper surface, the force sensor may detect the force and generate a
   corresponding input signal to the device.
   [0041]     Some embodiments may incorporate multiple force sensors spaced about a
   perimeter of the electronic device, rather than a single force-sensing structure or element.
 0 Further, the multiple force sensors need not form a continuous array or structure, but may be
   discretely spaced from one another. The number of force sensors may vary between
   embodiments, as may the spacing. Each force sensor may sense a force exerted on an
   adjacent or nearby surface within a certain region of the device. Thus, a force exerted at a
   point that is between two underlying force sensors may be sensed by both.
 5 [0042]     Generally, the force sensor or device may include one or more capacitive plates,
   traces, flex, or the like that are separated by a compressible element (e.g., a compliant
   member). As a force is transmitted through the device enclosure and to the force sensor,
   the compressible element may compress, thereby bringing the capacitive plates closer
   together. The change in distance between the capacitive plates may increase a measured
 O capacitance therebetween. A circuit may measure this change in capacitance and output a
   signal that varies with the change in capacitance. A processor, integrated circuit or other
   electronic element may correlate the change in capacitance to a force exerted on the
   enclosure, thereby facilitating the detection, measurement, and use of force as an input to an
   electronic device. Although the term "plate" may be used to describe the capacitive
25 elements, it should be appreciated that the capacitive elements need not be rigid but may
   instead be flexible (as in the case of a trace or flex).
   1.            Terminology
   [0043]     The following terminology is exemplary, and not intended to be limiting in any way.
   [0044]     The text "applied force", and variants thereof, generally refers to the force of a
30 touch applied to a surface of the device. Generally, the degree, amount, or magnitude of the
   applied force can be detected and measured using the techniques described herein. The
   degree, amount, or magnitude of an applied force need not have any particular scale. For
   example, the measure of applied force can be linear, logarithmic, or otherwise nonlinear, and
   can be adjusted periodically (or otherwise, such as aperiodically, or otherwise from time to
                                                    7

   time) in response to one or more factors, either relating to applied force, location of touch,
   time, or otherwise.
   [0045]     The text "finger", and variants thereof, generally refers to a user's finger, or other
   body part. For example and without limitation, a "finger" can include any part of the user's
 5 finger or thumb and any part of the user's hand. A "finger" may also include any covering on
   the user's finger, thumb, or hand.
   [0046]     The text "touch," and variants thereof, generally refers to the act of an object
   coming into contact with a surface of a device. The object may include a user's finger, a
   stylus or other pointing object. Example objects include, a hard stylus, a soft stylus, a pen,
 0 finger, thumb or other part of the user's hand. A "touch" typically has an applied force and a
   location that can detected and measured using the techniques described herein.
   [0047]     After reading this document, those skilled in the art would recognize that these
   statements of terminology would be applicable to techniques, methods, physical elements,
   and systems (whether currently known or otherwise), including extensions thereof inferred or
 5 inferable by those skilled in the art after reading this application. Likewise, it should be
   appreciated that any dimensions set forth herein are meant to be examples only, and may
   change from embodiment to embodiment.
   2.            Force-Sensitive Device
   [0048]     In one embodiment, a force sensitive device and system can include a cover glass
 O element, such as a relatively transparent (in most or all locations) substance capable of
   isolating circuitry or other internal elements of the touch device from external objects. The
   term "glass" refers to the relatively hard sheet-like qualities of the material and does not limit
   the material of the cover glass element to only glass materials. The cover glass element
   may be made from a variety of materials including, for example, glass, treated glass, plastic,
25 treated plastic, and sapphire. In many cases, the cover glass is transparent, however it is
   not necessary that the cover glass be completely or even partially transparent. The cover
   glass can be disposed in a substantially rectilinear shape, such as to cover the circuit for the
   touch device and to serve as a touch plate for the user. The cover glass may also be formed
   in a variety of other shapes depending on the application.
30 [0049]     In some embodiments, the cover glass is integrated with or attached to a
   transparent or non-transparent touch sensor that is configured to detect the location of a
   touch. The transparent touch sensor may be a capacitive touch sensor formed from one or
   more arrays of transparent conductive lines. For example, the transparent touch sensor may
   be a mutually capacitive touch sensor formed from two arrays of transverse transparent

   conductive lines operatively coupled to touch sensing circuitry. Such a transparent touch
   sensor may be able to detect and track multiple touches on the surface of the cover glass.
   The touches may include multiple finger touches, multiple stylus touches, or a combination
   of different types of touches on the cover glass. Other types of transparent touch sensors
 5 may also be used, including, for example, self-capacitive touch sensors, resistive touch
   sensors, and the like.
   [0050]     In one embodiment, the cover glass element is coupled to a frame or housing for
   the touch device, such as a case constructed of metal, elastomer, plastic, a combination
   thereof, or some other substance. In such cases, the frame for the touch device can include
 0 a shelf or ledge on which the cover glass element is positioned. The cover glass is typically
   positioned above the circuitry for the touch device. For example, the frame can include a
   shelf on which an edge of the cover glass element is positioned, with the (or some of the)
   remainder of the cover glass element positioned over the circuitry for the touch device.
   [0051]     In many of the embodiments described herein, a force sensor, (e.g. a force
 5 sensing structure, force-sensing element, or force sensitive sensor), is positioned below the
   cover glass and the shelf or ledge of the frame or housing. The force sensor typically
   includes a compressible element and is configured to detect and measure a relative
   displacement between the cover glass and the frame or housing. As previously mentioned,
   the amount that the cover glass is displaced can be used to estimate the applied force. The
 O following embodiments are directed to different techniques and methods of detecting and
   measuring this displacement.
   3.       Exemplary Devices having a Force Sensor
   [0052]     FIG. 1 depicts an exemplary device 100 that incorporates one or more force
   sensing structures, as described herein. With respect to FIG. 1, the device 100 is depicted
25 as a tablet computing device, but it should be appreciated that it may also be any of a
   number of other devices, including a mobile phone, portable computer, wearable device,
   touch screen, and the like. The device 100 may have an enclosure 102 including multiple
   sidewalls and a bezel 106. In other embodiments, the device 100 may be flush-mounted
   into a larger surface or enclosure and so the device may lack an identifiable bezel or
30 sidewall.
   [0053]     As shown in FIG. 1, the electronic device 100 includes an electronic display,
   located beneath a cover glass 104, for conveying graphical and/or textual information to the
   user. The electronic display may include a liquid crystal display (LCD), organic light omitting
   diode (OLED), or other electronic display component. In some embodiments, the display
                                                  a

   may be omitted. For example, the cover glass may be placed over a control button or track
   pad that is not configured to convey graphical and/or textual information to the user. (In
   such a case, the cover glass may not be transparent.)
   [0054]     As shown in FIG. 1, the device includes multiple ports and mechanisms for
 5 electrically and mechanically coupling the device to external devices or elements. The input
   mechanisms, ports, and the like may vary between versions, types and styles of the
   electronic device 100. Accordingly, they are shown in FIG. 1 only as examples of such
   devices and in sample positions.
   [0055]     FIG. 2A depicts a cross-sectional view taken along line 1-1, shown in FIG. 1. The
 0 cross-sectional view depicts the interior of a device 100 having one type of force-sensing
   structure. A central portion of the enclosure 102 may enclosure electronic circuitry,
   mechanical structures, and other internal elements. As shown in the figure, a bezel 106 is
   formed around the perimeter of the device 100.
   [0056]     A ledge 202 may be formed along the perimeter of the bezel 106. The exact
 5 dimensions of the ledge 202 may vary between embodiments. In this embodiment, the
   ledge 202 includes a width configured to support the base of a force-sensing structure 200.
   The base of the force-sensing structure 200 may abut and attach to the top of the ledge 202
   in certain embodiments. Likewise, as shown in FIG. 2A, an inner edge of the force-sensing
   structure 200 may be parallel and approximately aligned with an inner surface of the bezel
 O 106. In other embodiments, the inner edge of the force-sensing structure 200 may be offset
   from an inner edge of the bezel 106.
   [0057]     As shown in FIG. 2A, a single force-sensing structure 200 may encircle the entirety
   of the inner cavity of the enclosure 102. That is, the force-sensing structure 200 may extend
   along the entirety of the perimeter of the device and along the ledge 202. Thus, it may be
25 appreciated that the force-sensing structure 200 may be formed as a single unit or element.
   [0058]     FIG. 2B depicts an alternate cross-sectional view taken along line 1-1, shown in
   FIG. 1. As shown in FIG. 2B, the device 100b includes an alternative force-sensing structure
   200b. In the alternative embodiment of FIG. 2B, multiple force-sensing structures 200b may
   be placed at different locations along the perimeter of the bezel 106. In this example, a
30 force-sensing structure 200b is placed at or near each edge of the bezel 106 of the
   electronic device 100b. Additionally, a force-sensing structure 200c is placed at each of the
   corners of the bezel. Thus, in the example device 100b shown in FIG. 2B, there are eight
   force-sensing structures (200b, 200c).

   [0059]     With regard to FIG. 2B, it should be appreciated that more or fewer force-sensing
   structures 200b may be used. For example, three force-sensing structures 200b may be
   used and a location of a force may be triangulated by comparing the outputs of each device.
   Alternately, an array of more than four force-sensing structures 200b may be used in a
 5 device. Additionally, each of the force-sensing structures shown in FIG. 2B may represent a
   number of individual force-sensing structures in a linear or two-dimensional array, for
   example. Accordingly, the number and positioning of the various force-sensing structures
   200b depicted in FIG. 2B is merely exemplary and other variations are possible.
   [0060]     FIG. 3 depicts a cross-sectional view taken along 2-2 of the electronic device 100,
 0 as shown in FIG. 2A. As shown in FIG. 3, the physical relationship between the cover glass
   104, bezel 106, and force-sensing structure 300 is shown in more detail, although it should
   be appreciated that the exact geometry, sizes, tolerances, positions and the like may vary.
   As shown in FIG. 3, the force-sensing structure 300 may be mounted or otherwise be
   positioned beneath a portion of the cover glass 104. A display element 304 may likewise be
 5 positioned beneath the cover glass 104. In some embodiments, the force-sensing structure
   300 may be concealed from external view by an ink or print layer deposited on the cover
   glass between the cover glass 104 and the force-sensing structure 300. In other
   embodiments, the ink or print layer may be omitted.
   [0061]     In some embodiments, the display element 304 may act as an shield to electrically
 O isolate the force-sensing structure from other components within the electronic device.
   Likewise, a shield may be formed on the ledge 202 and portion of the housing 102 adjacent
   the gap 302 in order to electrically isolate the force-sensing structure 300 from external
   signals, or at least reduce the impact of external noise on the force-sensing structure. The
   shield layers may be deposited by physical vapor deposition, as one non-limiting example.
25 Further, any or all of the shield layers may extend into the interior of the electronic device to
   connect to a common or system ground. For example, the shield layer may extend from the
   ledge down the interior wall of the enclosure 102 to a system ground.
   [0062]     In certain embodiments, the ledge and/or portion of the housing may themselves
   act as shielding structures, rather than having any shield formed thereon. It should be
30 appreciated that one or more of the various shield layers/structures may be electrically tied
   to one another in certain embodiments, although this is not necessary.
   [0063]     As shown in FIG. 3, the bezel 106 is adjacent to the ledge 202, which is recessed
   from the surface of the bezel 106 and is configured to support the force-sensing structure
   300. As shown in FIG. 3, a gap 302 may exist between the interior edge of the bezel 106
                                                    11

   and the outer edge of the cover glass 104. The gap may allow free movement of the cover
   glass 104 with respect to the enclosure 102.
   [0064]     In certain embodiments, a portion or all of the surfaces of the gap 302 may be
   coated with an oleophobic material. The oleophobic material may serve as a barrier against,
 5 or repel, oils, dust, dirt and other similar materials from entering the gap 302 and/or
   impacting the force-sensing structure 300. In this fashion the coating may serve to maintain
   operation of the force-sensing structure over time. Coatings other than an oleophobic
   coating may be used; other dust- and/or oil- and/or dirt-repellent coatings may be used in
   different embodiments.
 0 [0065]     As shown in FIG. 3, the force-sensing structure 300 includes multiple layers. In
   this example, the force-sensing structure includes an upper portion 310 and a lower portion
   320 separated by a deformable middle body or compressible element 330. The upper
   portion 310 includes an upper body 311 which may be formed from a layer of polyimide flex
   material. The upper portion 310 also includes an upper capacitive plate 312 formed from a
 5 layer of copper bonded to or deposited on the upper body 311. Likewise, the lower portion
   320 includes a lower body 321 which may also be formed from a layer of polyimide flex
   material. The lower portion 320 also includes a lower capacitive plate 322 formed from a
   layer of copper bonded to or deposited on the lower body 321. In this example, the
   polyimide flex material is approximately 0.05 millimeters thick. However, other thicknesses
 O and other materials may be used to form the force-sensing structure 300.
   [0066]     As shown in FIG. 3, a capacitance (shown by the capacitor symbol) may be formed
   between the upper and lower capacitive plates 312, 322, which, in this example, are
   separated by the compressible element 330. In this example, the compressible element 300
   is formed from a silicone material approximately 0.2 millimeters thick with a tolerance of plus
25 or minus 0.09 millimeters. In other embodiments, the compressible element 300 may be
   formed from a different material and have a different thickness.
   [0067]      The force-sensing structure 300 depicted in FIG. 3 can be used to detect and
   measure a user-applied force. For example, a user may press down on the cover glass 104
   (or on an upper surface of the electronic device 100, in embodiments lacking a display
30 and/or cover glass) to exert a force on the device 100. The cover glass 104 may move
   downward in response to the force, compressing the compressible element 330 of the force
   sensing structure 300. In some cases, the compressible element 330 becomes flattened by
   the compression resulting the in first and second capacitive plates 312, 322 moving closer
   together. As a result, the capacitance between the first and second capacitive plates 312,
35 322 may change. As previously mentioned, a change in capacitance may produce an
                                                    10

   electrical signal or change in an electrical signal, which may be detected and measured by
   associated circuitry and may be used to estimate the force exerted on the cover glass 104
   by the user.
   [0068]     As shown in FIG. 3, the upper and lower capacitive plates 312, 322 may extend
 5 outward from the upper and lower bodies 311, 321, respectively. That is, at certain locations
   along the length of the force-sensing structure 300, a portion of the capacitive plates 312,
   322 may be bare and exposed. The exposed portion of the capacitive plates may facilitate
   connection to a wire, conduit, or other electrical connection and allow signals to be
   communicated between the force-sensing structure 300 and associated electronic circuitry in
 0 order to measure capacitance changes and estimate force.
   [0069]     In some embodiments, a second, auxiliary structure may be formed within the
   device 100 or within a segment of the force-sensing structure. The auxiliary structure may
   also include an upper capacitive plate and a lower capacitive plate separated by a
   compressible element. However, the auxiliary structure may not be configured to be
 5 compressed by the cover glass 104, and instead may serve as a reference capacitance
   used to account for changes in environmental conditions surrounding the device. For
   example, the elasticity and/or compressibility of the compressible element (e.g., a silicone
   material) may vary due to changes in the amount of absorbed moisture. In this case, it may
   be advantageous to use an auxiliary structure to measure (directly or indirectly) changes in
 O the physical properties of the compressible element to account for changes in the moisture
   content. In one example, the auxiliary structure may form a capacitor with the upper and
   lower capacitive plates separated by a compressible element. The capacitor may be
   connected to a second electrical circuit that monitors the capacitance between the plates of
   the auxiliary structure separately from any force-sensitive structure. The auxiliary structure
25 may be positioned in a part of the device such that it does not experience any (or very little)
   compression when a user presses down on the cover glass but is still exposed to the same
   or a similar environment as the force-sensing structure. Thus, any changes in the
   capacitance between the plates of the auxiliary structure may be purely due to absorbed
   moisture and/or aging of the compressible element (e.g., a silicone material). The output
30 signal from the auxiliary structure may be used to adjust readings from force-sensitive
   structure to compensate for changes in the environmental conditions that affect the physical
   properties of the compressible element.
   [0070]     FIGS. 4 and 5 depict alternative embodiments of a force-sensitive structure.
   Specifically, FIG. 4 depicts a force-sensitive structure 400 having an upper portion 410
35 including an upper body 411 attached to an upper capacitive plate 412. The force-sensitive
                                                    IQ

   structure 400 also includes a lower portion 420 including a lower body 421 attached to a
   lower capacitive plate 422. The upper and lower portions 410, 420 are separated by a
   compressible element 430 and form a capacitor that can be used to detect a force applied to
   the cover glass 104. In the example depicted in FIG. 4, the upper and lower capacitive
 5 plates 412, 422 do not extend beyond the upper and lower bodies 411, 421. In this case,
   electrical communication with the force-sensitive structure 400 may be facilitated by an
   electrical terminal or conduit located within the profile of the force-sensitive structure 400.
   [0071]     FIG. 5 depicts another alternative embodiment of an electronic device 100
   incorporating a force-sensitive structure 500. In this embodiment, an environmental seal 550
 0 may be positioned between the cover glass 104 and the force-sensitive structure 500 to
   prevent ingress of moisture, dust, dirt, and other potential environmental contaminants. The
   environmental seal 550 may be formed, for example, from an extruded compliant material,
   such as Buna rubber, Viton, EPDM, or the like. In some cases, the environmental seal 550
   is formed as a bead of sealant material that cures after being applied to an element of the
 5 device 100.
   [0072]     Optionally, as shown in FIG. 5, the device may also include a support 552
   positioned between the seal 550 and the cover glass 104 to provide a bonding surface for
   the environmental seal 550. In this example, the support 552 is attached to the cover glass
   104 and, therefore, is movable with respect to the enclosure 102. Thus, as a force is applied
 O to the cover glass 104, the cover glass 104, optional support 552, and seal 550 may all
   move downward to compress the force-sensing structure 500. Thus, in the present
   embodiment, the seal 550 can be used to isolate the force-sensing structure 500 from
   moisture and external debris while still allowing operation force-sensing structure 500. In
   addition to or in place of the seal 550, the device 100 may also include one or more wiping
25 seals located between an edge of the cover glass 104 and a portion of the enclosure 102.
   Furthermore, a baffle seal or membrane may be installed between the cover glass 104 and a
   portion of the enclosure 102, the baffle seal configured to prevent contaminates from
   entering the internal portion of the device 100.
   [0073]     In some embodiments, the environmental seal 550 is compliant and in other
30 embodiments, the environmental seal 550 is not compliant and may be rigid. A rigid seal
   may be advantageous by transmitting force to the force-sensing structure 500 directly, while
   a compliant or flexible seal may compress somewhat before transmitting any force. Either
   type of seal may be used, although the output of the force-sensitive structure 500 may be
   affected by compression of a flexible seal.
                                                   IA

   [0074]     FIG. 6 depicts another alternative embodiment of a device having a capacitive
   force sensor. As shown in FIG. 6, a touch device case 605 (e.g., housing) can be shaped
   and positioned to hold a cover glass element 610. For example, the touch device case 605
   can include a rectilinear frame, such as having a shape of a picture frame, with the cover
 5 glass element 610 having the shape of a picture cover (as would occur if a picture were
   placed below the cover glass element 610). The touch device case 605 can include a
   backing (not shown) or a midframe element (not shown), which can stabilize the touch
   device case 605 against bending, warping, or other physical distortion. The touch device
   case 605 can also define a space in which circuitry for the touch device (as described
 0 herein) can be positioned. This has the effect that the circuitry for the touch device can be
   protected against foreign contaminants or unwanted touching, and against bending or
   warping, or other electrical or physical effects that might possibly cause circuitry errors or
   other problems for the touch device.
   [0075]     As shown in FIG. 6, the touch device case 605 can include an outer edge 615,
 5 such as can be defined by an outer lip or a protrusion upward from a baseline of the touch
   device case 605, and which can be positioned to prevent excess slippage or other
   movement of the cover glass element 610 in either an X or Y direction. In this context, a Z
   direction generally indicates a direction substantially normal (likely to be at a 90 degree
   angle, but this is not required) to a plane of the cover glass element 610 and a top surface of
 O the touch device, while the X and Y directions generally indicate directions substantially
   within the same plane of the cover glass element 610 (likely to be at 90 degree angles with
   respect to each other, but this is not required).
   [0076]     As shown in FIG. 6, the cover glass element 610 and the outer edge 615 define a
   cover glass gap 620 between them, with the effect that the cover glass element 610 does
25 not bump or rub against the touch device case 605. In one embodiment, the touch device
   can include an optional elastomer 625, or other substance, positioned between the cover
   glass element 610 and the outer edge 615. This can have the effect of providing shock
   absorption in the event of a sudden acceleration of the cover glass element 610 in the
   direction of the outer edge 615, such as in the event the touch device is dropped, hit, kicked,
30 or otherwise catastrophically moved. For example, the elastomer 625 can be disposed
   around the edges of the cover glass element 610, with the effect of forming an O-ring shape
   or similar shape. The elastomer 625 can also have the effect of preventing, or at least
   militating against, foreign object damage that might be caused by dust or other objects
   slipping between the cover glass element 610 and the outer edge 615.
                                                    1r

   [0077]      As shown in FIG. 6, the touch device case 605 includes a cover glass shelf 630,
   such as can be defined by an inner lip or internal protrusion inward from the outer edge 615
   of the touch device case 605, and which can be positioned to support the cover glass
   element 610. For example, the cover glass element 610 can rest on the cover glass shelf
 5 630, which can prevent the cover glass element 610 from slipping down into the circuitry for
   the touch device. In alternative embodiments, the touch device case 605 can include a
   midframe (not shown), such as can be defined by an internal support element positioned to
   support the cover glass element 610. For example, the midframe can include a relatively
   solid (absent optional holes) element positioned to support at least some of the circuitry for
 0 the touch device.
   [0078]      As shown in FIG. 6, the device includes a force-sensing structure 600. In this
   example, the force-sensing structure 600 includes a first upper portion comprising a first
   pressure sensitive adhesive (PSA) layer 635, having a thickness of about 100 microns and a
   first flex circuit 640. The first flex circuit 640 includes a set of drive/sense lines configured to
 5 conduct electric signals and/or act a capacitive plate. The force-sensing structure 600 also
   includes a lower portion comprising a second PSA layer 645, such as also having a
   thickness of about 100 microns, and a second flex circuit 650 also having conductive
   drive/sense lines for conducting signals and acting as a capacitive plate. The first flex circuit
   640 and the second flex circuit 650 are configured to operate in response to control by the
 O drive/sense lines and can form a capacitive sensor. As explained above with respect to
   previous embodiments, changes in the capacitance between the upper and lower portions of
   the force-sensing structure 600 may be related to an amount of deflection or change in
   distance between the first flex circuit 640 and the second flex circuit 650. (In other
   embodiments, one or more strain gauges can be used instead of a capacitive sensor.) In
25 one example, if the cover glass element 610 is tilted (such as by pressure or other applied
   force), the first flex circuit 640 and the second flex circuit 650 can become closer or become
   farther away, depending on location with respect to the axis and location of tilt. As further
   described herein, the first flex circuit 640 and the second flex circuit 650 can be replicated in
   several locations on the touch device case 605.
30 [0079]      The force-sensing structure 600 is typically operatively connected to a force
   sensing circuit configured to detect and measure changes in capacitance. By measuring
   changes in capacitance, the force-sensing circuit can be used to estimate relative
   displacement of one or more force-sensing structures which, in turn can be used to
   determine an axis and location of tilt of the cover glass element 610. Furthermore, the
35 changes in capacitance can be used to estimate a force applied to the cover glass element
   610. In some embodiments, the force-sensing circuit includes or is coupled to a processor.

   [0080]       In one embodiment, a region between the first flex circuit 640 and the second flex
   circuit 650 can define a substantially empty space (that is, filled with air). In alternative
   embodiments, the region between the first flex circuit 640 and the second flex circuit 650 can
   include a compressible layer 655. For a first example, the space between the first and
 5 second flex circuits 640, 650 can include a set of spring elements interspersed within the
   space. In this case, the first flex circuit 640 and the second flex circuit 650 are held apart by
   spring forces and do not generally touch. For a second example, the compressible layer 655
   can include a microstructure constructed at least in part from silicone, such as a set of
   silicone pyramids or a set of silicone springs, also with the effect that the first flex circuit 640
 0 and the second flex circuit 650 are held apart by a spring force and do not generally touch.
   [0081]      As described generally above, the cover glass element 610 may include a
   transparent touch sensor that is configured to detect the location of one or more touches. As
   mentioned previously, the transparent touch sensor may be formed from one or more arrays
   of transparent conductive lines coupled to touch sensor circuitry. Types of transparent touch
 5 sensors that may be integrated into the cover glass element 610, include, without limitation,
   mutual capacitive sensors, self-capacitive touch sensors, and resistive touch sensors.
   [0082]       In one embodiment, an area of the cover glass element 610 above the first flex
   circuit 640 and the second flex circuit 650 can be covered with an ink mask 660. In one
   embodiment, the ink mask 660 is disposed below the cover glass element 610 and above
 O the first flex circuit 640. This has the effect that a user of the touch device does not
   generally see either the first flex circuit 640 or the second flex circuit 650, or any of the
   elements coupling them to the touch device case 605, the cover glass element 610, or any
   circuits for touch device (not shown). For example, the touch device can include a surface
   665, which can include a surface of the cover glass element 610 in places where the ink
25 mask 660 is absent, and can include a surface of the ink mask where the ink mask 660 is
   present. As described above, a Z direction 670 can indicate a direction substantially normal
   to the surface 665 of the touch device.
   [0083]       In one embodiment, the interaction between the cover glass element 610 and the
   outer edge 615 may result in a set of forces at the outer edge of the cover glass element
30 610. In some embodiments, a force-sensing structure 600 (or alternatively a strain gauge) is
   placed at two or more edges of the cover glass element 610. Each of the two or more force
   sensing structures may be operatively coupled to force-sensing circuitry in the touch device
   and can be used to detect and measure these forces. Additionally, by estimating the relative
   displacement in each of the two or more force-sensing structures, the circuit can be used to
35 determine a normal vector to the cover glass element 610 that represents a location of
                                                     17

   applied force (that is, a location of the normal vector) as well as an amount applied force
   (that is, a magnitude of the normal vector).
   [0084]      In one embodiment, the normal vector can be determined in response to an
   amount of tilt of the cover glass element or an amount of pressure at a X and the Y location.
 5 For example, a set of displacements can be measured using two or more force-sensing
   structures located at one or more edges on the perimeter of the cover glass element. In one
   embodiment, the displacements are proportional or can be correlated to one or more applied
   forces. A total force Fz can be determined in response to the individual forces at the edges
   of the cover glass element, and a centroid location (x0, y0) can be determined based on a
 0 correlation between the individual forces. Thus, using two or more force-sensing structures,
   a total force Fz and central location (x0, y0) can be computed that correlates to the actual
   force exerted on the cover glass element. Additionally, signals generated by multiple force
   sensing structures can be coupled with the output of a touch sensor (potentially integrated
   into the cover glass elements) to resolve both the location a magnitude (applied force) for
 5 multiple finger touches on a cover glass element.
   [0085]      FIG. 7 depicts another exemplary embodiment of a device having a capacitive
   force sensor. The device may include a touch-sensitive region 710, which may (or may not)
   coincide with a display region such as an LED, LCD or OLED display. In this example, the
   touch-sensitive region 710 is formed from a transparent touch sensor integrated with the
 O cover glass element 610.
   [0086]      FIG. 7 depicts, the touch device as viewed from above and includes the touch
   device case 605, the cover glass element 610, and the outer edge 615. The touch device
   also includes a home button 705, and a touch-sensitive region 710 (in which the touch
   device can determine a location of one or more touches using, for example, a capacitive
25 touch sensor). The home button 705 may be partially or fully within the touch-sensitive
   region 710, or may be located outside the touch-sensitive region 710.
   [0087]      In one embodiment, the shape of the touch device can be indicated by a pair of
   centerlines 715, such as an X direction centerline 715x and a Y direction centerline 715y.
   The touch device can include, along one or more edges, such as bordering the touch
30 sensitive region 710, a set of force sensors 700. The force sensors 700may be formed from
   one or more capacitive force sensors similar to those as described with respect to FIGS. 3-6.
   Alternatively, the force sensors 700 may include other devices capable of sensing applied
   force, such as a strain gauge.

   [0088]      As shown in FIG. 7, a device may include a plurality of force sensors 700 located
   along one or more edges of the perimeter of the touch-sensitive region 710. Each force
   sensor 700 includes at least two capacitive plates separated by a compressible intermediate
   layer. In one embodiment, the set of force sensors 700 can be disposed substantially
 5 outside a transparent portion of the touch-sensitive region 710. For example, the force
   sensors 700 may be located under an ink mask 660 (such as similar to or like that described
   with reference to the FIG. 6). In such cases, the force sensors 700 can be positioned with a
   gauge spacing 725 between pairs of the force sensors 700, and with an edge spacing 730
   between individual ones of the force sensors 700 and an edge the touch device. In
 0 alternative embodiments, the force sensors 700 may be positioned beneath a display stack
   or located in another position with respect to the touch-sensitive region 710. The force
   sensors 700 may be evenly spaced from one another, spaced at uneven intervals, at
   repeating intervals, or as necessary. Likewise, the force sensors 700 may be positioned
   along all sides of the touch-sensitive region 710, at corners of the device, along less than all
 5 sides of the touch-sensitive region 710, or along a single edge of the touch-sensitive region
   710. Accordingly, the sensor distribution shown in FIG. 7 is meant to be a sample, partial
   distribution and not limiting.
   [0089]      In one embodiment, each force sensor 700 is coupled to force-sensing circuitry
   that is configured to measure an amount of capacitance between a first flex circuit and a
 O second flex circuit, which may be correlated to estimate a distance between the first flex
   circuit and the second flex circuit. The relative position of the first and second flex circuits
   may be similar to the configuration depicted in FIG. 6, discussed above. Similar to
   embodiments described above, an amount of capacitance between the first sensing element
   defined on the first flex circuit and the second sensing element defined on the second flex
25 circuit can be detected and measured using force detection circuitry, which may include a
   processor. In such cases, the amount of applied force can be correlated to a relative change
   in distance between the first flex circuit and the second flex circuit, relative to a rest position
   when there is no force applied to the cover glass element 610. It should be appreciated that
   each force sensor 700 may be formed from first and second flex circuits, or may be a
30 separate element.
   [0090]      In an alternative embodiment, each force sensor 700 is coupled to force-sensing
   circuitry that is configured to measure an amount of resistance between the first flex circuit
   and the second flex circuit. For example, the first and second flex circuits may be coupled
   by resistive layer. By measuring the resistance or change in resistance, the force-sensing
35 circuitry can be used to determine a distance between the first flex circuit and the second
   flex circuit. For example, an amount of resistance between the first flex circuit and the
                                                    10

   second flex circuit can be correlated to a distance between the first flex circuit and the
   second flex circuit. This may occur when, for example the compressible, resistive layer is
   formed from a material that has a variable resistivity dependent on its thickness or an
   amount of compression. In one such case, the compressible, resistive layer includes a
 5 microstructure that has a resistance that increases like a spring force, similar to a strain
   gauge. The force-sensing circuitry may estimate the distance between the flex circuits by
   measuring the resistance or changes to the resistance in the compressible, resistive layer.
   [0091]     With reference to FIG. 7, the force sensors 700 can be operatively coupled to
   force-sensing circuitry (including a processor) that is configured to determine a set of
 0 distances (at distinct locations along the edge of the cover glass element 110) corresponding
   to the set of force sensors 700. That is, the force-sensing circuitry can estimate the distance
   between the first flex circuit and the second flex circuit based on the measured capacitance
   at each force sensor. In one embodiment, the displacements at each sensor 700 correlate
   to applied forces at the locations of those force sensors 700. Similar to the technique
 5 described above with respect to FIG. 6, a total force Fz can be determined based on an
   estimate of the individual forces, and a centroid location (xO, yO) can be determined based
   on a weighting of the estimate of the individual forces. In one embodiment, the total force Fz
   and the centroid location (x0, y0) is calibrated such that a set of computed forces and
   moments in response to the values of the total force Fz and the centroid location (x0, y0)
 O best matches the observed values for displacements and forces at each of the set of force
   sensors 700. Thus, using multiple force sensors, a total force Fz and central location (x0,
   y0) can be computed that correlates to the actual force exerted on the device. Additionally,
   signals generated by multiple force sensors can be coupled with the output of a touch sensor
   (potentially integrated into the cover glass elements) to resolve both the locations and
25 magnitudes (due to applied forces) for multiple finger touches on the device.
   [0092]     FIG. 8 depicts another exemplary embodiment of a device having a capacitive
   force sensor. In particular, the device depicted in FIG. 8 includes a cover glass element that
   is deformable.
   [0093]     As shown in FIG. 8, a cover glass element 805 can be coupled to a frame element
30 810, which can be coupled to a touch device frame 815. In one embodiment, there is a
   spatial separation between the cover glass element 805 and the frame element 810. For a
   first example, the cover glass element 805 can have a thickness of about 0.90 mm, although
   this particular thickness is merely exemplary and is not required. For a second example, the
   frame element 810 can include an elastomer, a plastic, or include construction from other
35 substances. The cover glass element 805 can also be positioned above a display stack 820,
                                                   on

   such as a display stack from a touch device and adapted to provide a graphical or text
   display.
   [0094]     In one embodiment, the display stack 820 can be positioned above a reflector
   sheet 825 including an electrode pattern, such as can be used for drive and sense lines in a
 5 rectilinear capacitive array or individual sensor structures in an array. The reflector sheet
   825 can be positioned above an air gap 830, such as can be used for capacitance between
   the reflector sheet 825 and another element. For example, the air gap 830 can have a
   thickness of about 0.10 mm, although this particular thickness is merely exemplary and is
   not required.
 0 [0095]     In one embodiment, the air gap 830 can be positioned above a circuit 835 having
   capacitive traces or elements, which may include a set of drive and sense traces/elements
   or be formed from an array of individual sensing traces/elements. For example, the circuit
   835 can have a thickness of about 0.10 mm, although this particular thickness is merely
   exemplary and is not required.
 5 [0096]     In one embodiment, the circuit 835 can be positioned above a pressure sensitive
   adhesive (PSA) element 840. For example, the PSA element 840 can have a thickness of
   about 0.03 mm, although this particular thickness is merely exemplary and is not required.
   Further, a primer may be used between PSA and the housing to affix the structure to the
   housing. The structure may be optically aligned with the housing prior to bonding.
 O [0097]     In one embodiment, the PSA element 840 can be positioned above a midplate
   element 845. For a first example, the midplate element 845 can have a thickness of about
   0.25 mm, although this particular thickness is merely exemplary and is not required. For a
   second example, the midplate element 845 can be supportive of the elements coupled
   thereto and below the air gap 830.
25 [0098]     In one embodiment, the cover glass element 805, the display stack 820, and
   related elements can be relatively deformable. This can have the effect that applied force to
   the surface of the touch device can cause a change in distance between elements near the
   air gap 830, and a change in measured capacitance by circuits positioned near the air gap
   830. For example, a set of drive and sense lines, or an array of individual sensing elements,
30 could be positioned in the reflector sheet 825 or in the circuit 835, can measure a
   capacitance across the air gap 830.
   [0099]     In such cases, the capacitance across the air gap 830 would be subject to change
   in response to deformation of the cover glass element 805, the display stack 820, and
   related elements. This would have the effect that elements positioned near the air gap 830
                                                   01

   would be able to measure the change in capacitance, and would be able to determine an
   amount or magnitude of an applied force in response thereto.
   [0100]      In some embodiments, multiple force sensors may be formed over the area of the
   cover glass element 805. In one embodiment, the set of force sensors can be positioned in
 5 a rectilinear array, such as an array in which each one of the force sensors is positioned at
   an [X, Y] location over the area of the cover glass element 805. For example, each one of
   the force sensors can include a capacitive force sensor exhibiting mutual capacitance
   between drive and sensor elements, or exhibiting self-capacitance. In another example,
   each one of the sensors can include a resistive strain gauge exhibiting a change in
 0 resistance in response to applied force, such as a resistive strain gauge as described with
   respect to FIG. 6, above.
   [0101]      In one embodiment, the applied force can affect each force sensor that is
   substantially near the applied force. The applied force affects each such force sensor
   differently depending on an amount of the applied force and a distance between the [X, Y]
 5 location of the applied force and the [X, Y] location of the affected force sensor. This has the
   effect that a processor or other circuit in the touch device can determine a mapping of
   applied force, and in response thereto, a set of [X, Y] locations and a Z displacement of the
   cover glass element 805. For example, particular Z displacement of points along the edges
   of the cover glass element 805 (or within a touch-sensitive region) can be used to determine
 O the [X, Y] location of the applied force. In one embodiment, the cover glass element 805
   may be approximately 700 microns thick, although this thickness may vary between
   embodiments.
   [0102]      In one embodiment, the same or similar information can be used to determine the
   [X, Y] location and Z displacement of more than one such applied force. In such cases
25 where multiple forces are applied, a processor or other circuit in the touch device can
   determine a centroid of applied force, from which the touch device can determine one or
   more individual forces. For example, from this information, a processor or other circuit can
   determine one or more [X, Y] locations where force is being applied, and an amount or
   magnitude of force being applied at each such location.
30 [0103]      In one embodiment, the interaction between the cover glass element 805 and the
   air gap 830 defines a set of forces at each location of applied force. A processor or other
   circuit in the touch device can measure these forces, such as using one or more capacitive
   sensing elements (as described herein) or using one or more strain gauges, distributed at
   locations throughout cover glass element 805. In response to those forces, the circuit can
                                                    00

   determine a set of normal vectors to the cover glass element 805 representing one or more
   locations of applied force and one or more amounts or magnitudes of the applied force.
   [0104]     In one embodiment, the locations of applied force can be determined in response
   to the distribution of sensed applied force at each location on the cover glass element 805,
 5 as described above, at each of the X and the Y locations, thus assigning each such location
   a Z amount of applied force. For a first example, a total centroid of applied force can be
   determined in response to the distribution of sensed applied force. The processor or other
   circuit can then locate each individual likely applied force, identify its amount of force, and
   subtract out that identified force from the sensed applied force at each location. This can
 0 have the effect of providing the processor or other circuit with a way to identify each applied
   force individually, until all such individual applied forces have been found.
   [0105]     In one embodiment, an amount or magnitude of force can be determined at each
   of a set of distinct locations at which a distinct force sensor is disposed below the cover
   glass element 805. For example, in one embodiment, the force sensors can be disposed in
 5 a grid below the cover glass element 805. Having the amount of force at each such location,
   a weighted centroid of that set of force amounts can be computed using a weighted sum of
   the locations at which each applied force is measured. Having determined such a centroid,
   the processor can determine a nearest local maximum force, either in response to the
   nearest maximum force sensor, or in response to a touch location sensor, or both. Having
 O determined a nearest local maximum force, the processor can subtract that force and its
   expected effect on each force sensor, and repeat the process until each individual applied
   force is determined. In alternative embodiments, other and further techniques could be used
   in addition or instead.
   4.            Force-Sensitive Device System
25 [0106]     FIG. 9 depicts an exemplary communication between a touch 1/O device and a
   computing system. In this example, the touch 1/O device 901 includes one or more sensors
   for detecting a touch by an operator or user. The touch device 901 transmits electronic
   signals from the one or more sensors to a computing system 903 over a communication
   channel 902. An example computing system 903 is described below with respect to FIG. 10
30 and includes one or more computer processors and computer-readable memory for storing
   computer-executable instructions. The touch 1/O device, communication channel 902 and
   computing system 903 may all be integrated together as a part of the same touch device.
   [0107]     As shown in FIG. 9, embodiments may include touch 1/O device 901 that can
   receive touch input and force input (such as possibly including touch locations and applied

    force at those locations) for interacting with computing system 903 via wired or wireless
    communication channel 902. Touch 1/O device 901 may be used to provide user input to
    computing system 903 in lieu of or in combination with other input devices such as a
    keyboard, mouse, or possibly other devices. In alternative embodiments, touch 1/O device
 5  901 may be used in conjunction with other input devices, such as in addition to or in lieu of a
    mouse, trackpad, or possibly another pointing device. One or more touch 1/O devices 901
    may be used for providing user input to computing system 903. Touch 1/O device 901 may
    be an integral part of computing system 903 (e.g., touch screen on a laptop) or may be
    separate from computing system 903.
 0  [0108]     Touch 1/O device 901 may include a touch sensitive and/or force sensitive panel
    which is wholly or partially transparent, semitransparent, non-transparent, opaque or any
    combination thereof. Touch 1/O device 901 may be embodied as a touch screen, touch pad,
    a touch screen functioning as a touch pad (e.g., a touch screen replacing the touchpad of a
    laptop), a touch screen or touchpad combined or incorporated with any other input device
 5  (e.g., a touch screen or touchpad disposed on a keyboard, disposed on a trackpad or other
    pointing device), any multi-dimensional object having a touch sensitive surface for receiving
    touch input, or another type of input device or input/output device.
    [0109]     In one example, touch 1/O device 901 is a touch screen that may include a
    transparent and/or semitransparent touch-sensitive and force-sensitive panel at least
 '0 partially or wholly positioned over at least a portion of a display. (Although, the touch
    sensitive and force sensitive panel is described as at least partially or wholly positioned over
    at least a portion of a display, in alternative embodiments, at least a portion of circuitry or
    other elements used in embodiments of the touch sensitive and force sensitive panel may be
    at least positioned partially or wholly positioned under at least a portion of a display,
25  interleaved with circuits used with at least a portion of a display, or otherwise.) According to
    this embodiment, touch 1/O device 901 functions to display graphical data transmitted from
    computing system 903 (and/or another source) and also functions to receive user input. In
    other embodiments, touch 1/O device 901 may be embodied as an integrated touch screen
    where touch sensitive and force sensitive components/devices are integral with display
30  components/devices. In still other embodiments a touch screen may be used as a
    supplemental or additional display screen for displaying supplemental or the same graphical
    data as a primary display and to receive touch input, including possibly touch locations and
    applied force at those locations.
    [0110]     Touch 1/O device 901 may be configured to detect the location of one or more
35  touches or near touches on device 901, and where applicable, force of those touches, based

   on capacitive, resistive, optical, acoustic, inductive, mechanical, chemical, or
   electromagnetic measurements, in lieu of or in combination or conjunction with any
   phenomena that can be measured with respect to the occurrences of the one or more
   touches or near touches, and where applicable, force of those touches, in proximity to the
 5 touch 1/O device 901. Software, hardware, firmware or any combination thereof may be
   used to process the measurements of the detected touches, and where applicable, force of
   those touches, to identify and track one or more gestures. A gesture may correspond to
   stationary or non-stationary, single or multiple, touches or near touches, and where
   applicable, force of those touches, on touch 1/O device 901. A gesture may be performed by
 0 moving one or more fingers or other objects in a particular manner on touch 1/O device 901
   such as tapping, pressing, rocking, scrubbing, twisting, changing orientation, pressing with
   varying pressure and the like at essentially the same time, contiguously, consecutively, or
   otherwise. A gesture may be characterized by, but is not limited to a pinching, sliding,
   swiping, rotating, flexing, dragging, tapping, pushing and/or releasing, or other motion
 5 between or with any other finger or fingers, or any other portion of the body or other object.
   A single gesture may be performed with one or more hands, or any other portion of the body
   or other object by one or more users, or any combination thereof.
   [0111]     Computing system 903 may drive a display with graphical data to display a
   graphical user interface (GUI). The GUI may be configured to receive touch input, and
 O where applicable, force of that touch input, via touch 1/O device 901. Embodied as a touch
   screen, touch 1/O device 901 may display the GUI. Alternatively, the GUI may be displayed
   on a display separate from touch 1/O device 901. The GUI may include graphical elements
   displayed at particular locations within the interface. Graphical elements may include but are
   not limited to a variety of displayed virtual input devices including virtual scroll wheels, a
25 virtual keyboard, virtual knobs or dials, virtual buttons, virtual levers, any virtual UI, and the
   like. A user may perform gestures at one or more particular locations on touch 1/O device
   901 which may be associated with the graphical elements of the GUI. In other
   embodiments, the user may perform gestures at one or more locations that are independent
   of the locations of graphical elements of the GUI. Gestures performed on touch 1/O device
30 901 may directly or indirectly manipulate, control, modify, move, actuate, initiate, or generally
   affect graphical elements such as cursors, icons, media files, lists, text, all or portions of
   images, or the like within the GUI. For instance, in the case of a touch screen, a user may
   directly interact with a graphical element by performing a gesture over the graphical element
   on the touch screen. Alternatively, a touch pad generally provides indirect interaction.
35 Gestures may also affect non-displayed GUI elements (e.g., causing user interfaces to
   appear) or may affect other actions within computing system 903 (e.g., affect a state or
   mode of a GUI, application, or operating system). Gestures may or may not be performed

   on touch 1/O device 901 in conjunction with a displayed cursor. For instance, in the case in
   which gestures are performed on a touchpad, a cursor (or pointer) may be displayed on a
   display screen or touch screen and the cursor may be controlled via touch input, and where
   applicable, force of that touch input, on the touchpad to interact with graphical objects on the
 5 display screen. In other embodiments in which gestures are performed directly on a touch
   screen, a user may interact directly with objects on the touch screen, with or without a cursor
   or pointer being displayed on the touch screen.
   [0112]     Feedback may be provided to the user via communication channel 902 in
   response to or based on the touch or near touches, and where applicable, force of those
 0 touches, on touch 1/O device 901. Feedback may be transmitted optically, mechanically,
   electrically, olfactory, acoustically, haptically, or the like or any combination thereof and in a
   variable or non-variable manner.
   [0113]     As previously mentioned, the touch 1/O device, communication channel 902, and
   the computing system 903 may all be integrated into a touch device or other system. The
 5 touch device or system may be a portable or non-portable device, including, but not limited
   to, a communication device (e.g., mobile phone, smart phone), a multi-media device (e.g.,
   MP3 player, TV, radio), a portable or handheld computer (e.g., tablet, netbook, laptop), a
   desktop computer, an all-in-one desktop, a peripheral device, or any other (portable or non
   portable) system or device adaptable to the inclusion of system architecture depicted in FIG.
 O 10, including combinations of two or more of these types of devices.
   [0114]     FIG. 10 depicts a block diagram of one embodiment of system 1000 that generally
   includes one or more computer-readable mediums 1001, processing system 1004,
   Input/Output (1/O) subsystem 1006, electromagnetic frequency circuitry, such as possibly
   radio frequency (RF) or other frequency circuitry 1008 and audio circuitry 1010. These
25 components may be coupled by one or more communication buses or signal lines 1003.
   Each such bus or signal line may be denoted in the form 1003-X, where X can be a unique
   number. The bus or signal line may carry data of the appropriate type between components;
   each bus or signal line may differ from other buses/lines, but may perform generally similar
   operations.
30 [0115]     It should be apparent that the architecture shown in FIG. 10 is only one example
   architecture of system 1000, and that system 1000 could have more or fewer components
   than shown, or a different configuration of components. The various components shown in
   FIG. 10 can be implemented in hardware, software, firmware or any combination thereof,
   including one or more signal processing and/or application specific integrated circuits.

   [0116]     Shown in FIG. 10, RF circuitry 1008 is used to send and receive information over a
   wireless link or network to one or more other devices and includes well-known circuitry for
   performing this function. RF circuitry 1008 and audio circuitry 1010 are coupled to
   processing system 1004 via peripherals interface 1016. Interface 1016 includes various
 5 known components for establishing and maintaining communication between peripherals
   and processing system 1004. Audio circuitry 1010 is coupled to audio speaker 1050 and
   microphone 1052 and includes known circuitry for processing voice signals received from
   interface 1016 to enable a user to communicate in real-time with other users. In some
   embodiments, audio circuitry 1010 includes a headphone jack (not shown).
 0 [0117]     Peripherals interface 1016 couples the input and output peripherals of the system
   to processor 1018 and computer-readable medium 1001. One or more processors 1018
   communicate with one or more computer-readable mediums 1001 via controller 1020.
   Computer-readable medium 1001 can be any device or medium that can store code and/or
   data for use by one or more processors 1018. Medium 1001 can include a memory
 5 hierarchy, including but not limited to cache, main memory and secondary memory. The
   memory hierarchy can be implemented using any combination of RAM (e.g., SRAM, DRAM,
   DDRAM), ROM, FLASH, magnetic and/or optical storage devices, such as disk drives,
   magnetic tape, CDs (compact disks) and DVDs (digital video discs). Medium 1001 may also
   include a transmission medium for carrying information-bearing signals indicative of
 O computer instructions or data (with or without a carrier wave upon which the signals are
   modulated). For example, the transmission medium may include a communications
   network, including but not limited to the Internet (also referred to as the World Wide Web),
   intranet(s), Local Area Networks (LANs), Wide Local Area Networks (WLANs), Storage Area
   Networks (SANs), Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN) and the like.
25 [0118]     One or more processors 1018 run various software components stored on medium
   1001 to perform various functions for system 1000. In some embodiments, the software
   components include operating system 1022, communication module (or set of instructions)
   1024, touch and applied force processing module (or set of instructions) 1026, graphics
   module (or set of instructions) 1028, and one or more applications (or set of instructions)
30 1030. Each of these modules and above noted applications correspond to a set of
   instructions for performing one or more functions described above and the methods
   described in this application (e.g., the computer-implemented methods and other information
   processing methods described herein). These modules (i.e., sets of instructions) need not
   be implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various
35 subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise rearranged in various
   embodiments. In some embodiments, medium 1001 may store a subset of the modules and
                                                   07

    data structures identified above. Furthermore, medium 1001 may store additional modules
    and data structures not described above.
    [0119]    Operating system 1022 includes various procedures, sets of instructions, software
    components and/or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks (e.g., memory
 5  management, storage device control, power management, etc.) and facilitates
    communication between various hardware and software components.
    [0120]    Communication module 1024 facilitates communication with other devices over
    one or more external ports 1036 or via RF circuitry 1008 and includes various software
    components for handling data received from RF circuitry 1008 and/or external port 1036.
 0  [0121]    Graphics module 1028 includes various known software components for rendering,
    animating and displaying graphical objects on a display surface. In embodiments in which
    touch 1/O device 1012 is a touch sensitive and force sensitive display (e.g., touch screen),
    graphics module 1028 includes components for rendering, displaying, and animating objects
    on the touch sensitive and force sensitive display.
 5  [0122]    One or more applications 1030 can include any applications installed on system
    1000, including without limitation, a browser, address book, contact list, email, instant
    messaging, word processing, keyboard emulation, widgets, JAVA-enabled applications,
    encryption, digital rights management, voice recognition, voice replication, location
    determination capability (such as that provided by the global positioning system, also
 '0 sometimes referred to herein as "GPS"), a music player, and otherwise.
    [0123]    Touch processing module 1026 includes various software components for
    performing various tasks associated with touch 1/O device 1012 including but not limited to
    receiving and processing touch input and applied force input received from 1/O device 1012
    via touch 1/O device controller 1032. In some cases, the touch processing module 1026
25  includes computer instructions for operating the force sensor 1060. For example, the touch
    processing module 1026 may include instructions for performing one or more operations
    described below with respect to processes 1100 and 1150 of FIGS. 11 A-B. In some cases,
    the touch processing module 1026 includes parameters or settings that may be implemented
    in the operation of the force sensor 1060.
30  [0124]    I/O subsystem 1006 is coupled to touch 1/O device 1012 and one or more other 1/O
    devices 1014 for controlling or performing various functions. Touch 1/O device 1012
    communicates with processing system 1004 via touch 1/O device controller 1032, which
    includes various components for processing user touch input and applied force input (e.g.,
    scanning hardware). One or more other input controllers 1034 receives/sends electrical

   signals from/to other 1/O devices 1014. Other 1/O devices 1014 may include physical
   buttons, dials, slider switches, sticks, keyboards, touch pads, additional display screens, or
   any combination thereof.
   [0125]     If embodied as a touch screen, touch 1/O device 1012 displays visual output to the
 5 user in a GUI. The visual output may include text, graphics, video, and any combination
   thereof. Some or all of the visual output may correspond to user-interface objects. Touch
   1/O device 1012 forms a touch-sensitive and force-sensitive surface that accepts touch input
   and applied force input from the user. Touch 1/O device 1012 and touch screen controller
   1032 (along with any associated modules and/or sets of instructions in medium 1001)
 0 detects and tracks touches or near touches, and where applicable, force of those touches
   (and any movement or release of the touch, and any change in the force of the touch) on
   touch 1/O device 1012 and converts the detected touch input and applied force input into
   interaction with graphical objects, such as one or more user-interface objects. In the case in
   which device 1012 is embodied as a touch screen, the user can directly interact with
 5 graphical objects that are displayed on the touch screen. Alternatively, in the case in which
   device 1012 is embodied as a touch device other than a touch screen (e.g., a touch pad or
   trackpad), the user may indirectly interact with graphical objects that are displayed on a
   separate display screen embodied as another 1/O device 1014.
   [0126]     In embodiments in which touch 1/O device 1012 is a touch screen, the touch
 O screen may use LCD (liquid crystal display) technology, LPD (light emitting polymer display)
   technology, OLED (organic LED), or OEL (organic electro luminescence), although other
   display technologies may be used in other embodiments.
   [0127]     Feedback may be provided by touch 1/O device 2012 based on the user's touch,
   and applied force, input as well as a state or states of what is being displayed and/or of the
25 computing system. Feedback may be transmitted optically (e.g., light signal or displayed
   image), mechanically (e.g., haptic feedback, touch feedback, force feedback, or the like),
   electrically (e.g., electrical stimulation), olfactory, acoustically (e.g., beep or the like), or the
   like or any combination thereof and in a variable or non-variable manner.
   [0128]     System 1000 also includes power system 1044 for powering the various hardware
30 components and may include a power management system, one or more power sources, a
   recharging system, a power failure detection circuit, a power converter or inverter, a power
   status indicator and any other components typically associated with the generation,
   management and distribution of power in portable devices.
                                                       00

    [0129]     In some embodiments, peripherals interface 1016, one or more processors 1018,
    and memory controller 1020 may be implemented on a single chip, such as processing
    system 1004. In some other embodiments, they may be implemented on separate chips.
    [0130]     In one embodiment, an example system includes a force sensor 1060 integrated
 5  with the touch 1/O device 2012. The force sensor 1060 may include one or more of the
    force-sensitive structures described above with respect to any one of the example
    embodiments. Generally, the force sensor 1060 is configured to generate an electronic
    signal or response that can be interpreted or processed as a magnitude of force of a touch
    on touch 0/I device 1012. In some cases, the force sensor 1060 transmits electronic signals
 0  directly to the touch 1/O device via signal line 1003-10. The signals may be relayed to the
    force sensor controller 1061 in the 1/O subsystem 1006. In some cases, the force sensor
    1060 transmits signals directly to the force sensor controller 1061 via signal line 1003-11
    without passing through the touch 1/O device 1012.
    [0131]     The force sensor controller 1061 either alone or in combination with one or more of
 5  the processors (e.g., processor 1018 or secure processor 1040) may serve as the force
    sensing circuitry for the force sensor 1060. In particular, the force sensor controller 1061
    can be coupled to a processor or other computing device, such as the processor 1018 or the
    secure processor 1040. In one example, the force sensor controller 1061 is configured to
    calculate and estimated force based on electronic signals generated by the force sensor
 '0 1060. Data regarding estimated force may be transmitted to the processor 1018 or secure
    processor 1040 for use with other aspects of the system 1000, such as the touch processing
    module 1026. In one example, the force sensor controller 1061 performs signal processing
    on the electronic signal that is produced by the force sensor 1060, including, for example,
    analog to digital conversion, filtering, and sampling operations. In some cases, other
25  processors in the system 1000 (e.g., processor 1018 or secure processor 1040) that
    calculate an estimated force based on the processed signal. As a result, the system 1000
    can utilize signals or data produced by the force sensor controller 1061, which can be
    measured, calculated, computed, or otherwise manipulated. In one embodiment, the output
    of the force sensor 1060 is used by one or more processors or other computing devices,
30  coupled to or accessible to the force sense controller 1061 or the touch 1/O device, such as
    the processor 1018, the secure processor 1040, or otherwise. Additionally, output from the
    force sensor 1060 can be used by one or more analog circuits or other specialized circuits,
    coupled to or accessible to the force sensor controller 1061 or the touch 1/O device 1012.
    [0132]     After reading this application, those skilled in the art would recognize that
35  techniques for obtaining information with respect to applied force and contact on a touch 1/O
                                                     Qn

    device, and using that associated information to determine the magnitude and locations of
    applied force and contact on a touch 1/O device, is responsive to, and transformative of, real
    world data such as attenuated reflection and capacitive sensor data received from applied
    force or contact by a user's finger, and provides a useful and tangible result in the service of
 5  detecting and using applied force and contact with a touch 1/O device. Moreover, after
    reading this application, those skilled in the art would recognize that processing of applied
    force and contact sensor information by a computing device includes substantial computer
    control and programming, involves substantial records of applied force and contact sensor
    information, and involves interaction with applied force and contact sensor hardware and
 0  optionally a user interface for use of applied force and contact sensor information.
    [0133]     Certain aspects of the embodiments described in the present disclosure may be
    provided as a computer program product, or software, that may include, for example, a
    computer-readable storage medium or a non-transitory machine-readable medium having
    stored thereon instructions, which may be used to program a computer system (or other
 5  electronic devices) to perform a process according to the present disclosure. A non
    transitory machine-readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a
    form (e.g., software, processing application) readable by a machine (e.g., a computer). The
    non-transitory machine-readable medium may take the form of, but is not limited to, a
    magnetic storage medium (e.g., floppy diskette, video cassette, and so on); optical storage
 '0 medium (e.g., CD-ROM); magneto-optical storage medium; read only memory (ROM);
    random access memory (RAM); erasable programmable memory (e.g., EPROM and
    EEPROM); flash memory; and so on.
    [0134]     While the present disclosure has been described with reference to various
    embodiments, it will be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and that the
25  scope of the disclosure is not limited to them. Many variations, modifications, additions, and
    improvements are possible. More generally, embodiments in accordance with the present
    disclosure have been described in the context of particular embodiments . Functionality may
    be separated or combined in procedures differently in various embodiments of the disclosure
    or described with different terminology. These and other variations, modifications, additions,
30  and improvements may fall within the scope of the disclosure as defined in the claims that
    follow.
    5.      Methods of Operation
    [0135]     FIG. 11 A depicts an exemplary process for operating a device having a force
    sensor. The process may be applied using the force sensors described above with respect
35  to FIGS. 2A, 2B, 3-8, discussed above.
                                                    Q1

    [0136]     FIG. 11 A depicts an exemplary flow chart for a process 1100 that includes flow
    points and operational steps or functions. Although these flow points and operations are
    shown in a particular order, in the context of a more generalized technique, there is no
    particular requirement that the order of the operations must be followed as shown. For
 5  example, the flow points and operations could be performed in a different order,
    concurrently, in parallel, or otherwise. Similarly, although these flow points and operations
    are shown performed by a general purpose processor in a device, in the context of a more
    generalized approach, there is no particular requirement for any such limitation. For
    example, one or more such operations could be performed by a special purpose processor,
 0  by another circuit, or be offloaded to other processors or other circuits in other devices, such
    as by offloading those functions to nearby devices using wireless technology or by offloading
    those functions to cloud computing functions. In some cases, prior to performing the
    operations of process 1100, the electronic device has been turned on and the operating
    system has been loaded and is running. Also, the relevant hardware including, for example,
 5  touch screen sensors, display devices, and force sensor devices may have been powered
    and may have been initialized.
    [0137]     At operation 1105, a force is applied to a location [X, Y] on the cover glass of the
    device. The force may be applied using either a finger or other pointing devices, such as a
    stylus or pen. In some cases, multiple touches may be applied to the cover glass of the
 '0 device. For example, a multi-touch gesture or command may be input on the cover glass
    resulting in a net applied force.
    [0138]     At operation 1110, an electrical signal is detected and measured in response to the
    applied force. In one example, force-sensing circuit (which may include a processor) in the
    device measures a value from one or more force sensors in response to the applied force.
25  In one embodiment, as described above with respect to FIGS. 2A, 2B, and 3-5, a force
    sensing circuit detects a change in the capacitance at one or more force-sensing structures.
    The change in capacitance may be correlated or used to estimate a deflection in the cover
    glass resulting from the applied force. In another embodiment, as described with respect to
    FIG. 6, the force-sensing circuit estimates an amount of tilt applied to the cover glass based
30  on a signal or signals received from one or more force sensors. In yet another embodiment,
    as described with respect to FIG. 7, the force-sensing circuit is used to detect a change in
    capacitance between capacitive sensors (or with respect to a single sensor, in a self
    capacitance mode) at a set of distinct locations below the cover glass. The change in
    capacitance can be used to estimate the displacement on the cover glass resulting from the
35  applied force.

   [0139]     At operation 1115, the location of the one or more touches is determined. In one
   example, the force-sensing circuit determines one or more locations at which the force is
   being applied to the cover glass element based on the signal or signals received from one or
   more force sensors. The location may be determined by, for example, comparing the output
 5 from multiple force sensors and using the output to triangulate or estimate a location of the
   applied force.
   [0140]     At operation 1120, the amount or magnitude of the force being applied at each
   location is estimated. For example, the force-sensing circuit may be used to determine an
   amount or magnitude of force being applied at each measured location, such as using the
 0 weighted centroid technique described with respect to the FIG. 8. In some embodiments,
   the operations of method 1100 are repeated multiple times. In some embodiments, the
   operations of method 1100 are repeated so long as the force sensitive device is powered on.
   [0141]     FIG. 11 B depicts another process for operating a device having a force sensor.
   The process may be applied using the force sensors described above with respect to FIGS.
 5 2A, 2B, 3-8, discussed above.
   [0142]     FIG. 11 B depicts another exemplary flow chart for a process 1150 that includes
   flow points and operational steps or functions. Although these flow points and operations
   are shown in a particular order, in the context of a more generalized technique, there is no
   particular requirement that the order of the operations must be followed as shown. Similarly,
 O although these flow points and operations are shown performed by a general purpose
   processor in a device, in the context of a more generalized approach, there is no particular
   requirement for any such limitation. In some cases, prior to performing the operations of
   process 1150, the electronic device has been turned on and the operating system has been
   loaded and is running. Also, the relevant hardware including, for example, touch screen
25 sensors, display devices, and force sensor devices may have been powered and may have
   been initialized.
   [0143]     At operation 1155, a charge signal is transmitted to a force-sensitive structure. In
   a typical implementation, the charge signal includes a series of charge pulses is transmitted
   to one of the capacitive plates in a force-sensitive structure. Each charge pulse comprises a
30 momentary change in the voltage applied to the capacitive plates of the force-sensitive
   structure resulting in an induced current across the plates. In some instances, the charge
   signal is an alternating current (AC) that is applied across the capacitive plates of the force
   sensing structure. In many cases, if the charge signal is a discrete charge pulse, the charge
   pulse is transmitted at regular intervals during the operation of the device. If the charge
35 signal is an alternating current, the charge signal may be transmitted continuously during
                                                   QQ

   operation. In either case, operation 1155 is typically performed simultaneously with
   operations 1160, 1165, and 1170, described below.
   [0144]    At operation 1160, a first capacitance is measured for the force-sensitive structure.
   Typically, the capacitance is measured while the force-sensitive structure is in an
 5 uncompressed or unactuated state. For example, the measurement of operation 1160 may
   be taken when the device is stationary and is not being touched by an operator. In some
   cases, multiple measurements are taken over a period of time and a composite or average
   capacitance value is determined.
   [0145]    At operation 1165, a force is applied to the device. In accordance with the
 0 embodiments described above with respect to FIGS. 2A, 2B, 3-8, a user may touch the
   cover glass of a device applying a force at a location on the cover glass. The user may
   touch the device with a finger, stylus, pen, or the like. In some cases, multiple touches are
   applied to the cover glass at the same time in accordance with a multi-touch gesture or user
   input. In accordance with the embodiments described above with respect to FIGS. 2A, 2B,
 5 3-8, an applied force typically results in the compression or deflection of a force-sensitive
   structure resulting in a relative change in position of the two capacitive plates.
   [0146]    At operation 1170, a second capacitance is measured for the force-sensitive
   structure. Typically, the capacitance is measured while the force-sensitive structure is in a
   compressed or deflected state due to the force applied in operation 1165, described above.
 O In some cases, multiple measurements are taken over a period of time and a composite or
   representative capacitance value is determined.
   [0147]    At operation 1175, a force is estimated using the first and second capacitance
   measurements. In accordance with the embodiments described above with respect to FIGS.
   2A, 2B, 3-8, an applied force results in a change in the position of the two capacitive plates,
25 thus changing the capacitance of the force-sensitive structure. In operation 1175, the
   change in capacitance is correlated with or used to compute an estimated force. For
   example, if compressible element of a force-sensitive structure behaves as a linear force
   spring, the change in capacitance (which is proportional to the change in distance between
   the capacitive plates) will be proportional to the change in force. Because the material
30 properties, such as the spring rate, of the compressible element are known the amount of
   force can be estimated as the difference between the first and second capacitance
   measurements multiplied by a constant. In some embodiments, the operations of method
   1150 are repeated multiple times. In some embodiments, the operations of method 1150
   are repeated so long as the force sensitive device is powered on.
                                                    QA

    6.       Electrical Connection to a Force Sensor and Method of Manufacturing
    [0148]     In accordance with certain embodiments described above, a capacitive force
    sensor typically includes a force-sensitive stack having two capacitive plates separated by
    an intermediate, compressible element. In a typical implementation, a charge signal is
 5  applied to at least one of the capacitive plates and a capacitive measurement is taken. To
    deliver both the charge signal (drive signal) and receive the capacitive measurement (sense
    signal) from the capacitive plates, the force-sensitive structure is typically connected to other
    elements of the system by an electrical connection. To facilitate assembly during
    manufacturing, it may be advantageous that the electrical connection be a detachable
 0  electrical connection formed from a flexible conduit.
    [0149]      FIG. 12 depicts an example touch device 1200 having two force-sensing
    structures 1210, 1220 located around the perimeter of a display element 1202 or a portion
    thereof. The two force-sensing structures 1210, 1220 are electrically connected to an
    electrical connector tail 1250. In this example, each of the two force-sensing structures
 5  (1210, 1220) is formed from a first and second capacitive plate separated by an
    intermediate, compressible element. Generally, the force-sensing structures 1210 and 1220
    can be used to determine a magnitude of a touch on a surface of the device. As explained
    above with respect to FIGS. 3-5, a force applied to the device compresses or deforms the
    compressible element, changing the distance between the first and second capacitive plates.
 '0 The change in distance can be measured as a change in capacitance between the two
    plates using force-sensing circuitry. Accordingly, the two structures 1210, 1220 cooperate to
    sense a force; in this manner, they may be referred to as either separately or together as a
    "force-sensing structure."
    [0150]     The electrical connector tail 1250 can be used to electrically couple the two force
25  sensing structures 1210, 1220 with the force-sensing circuitry, which may be located on a
    separate circuit component within the device. In some cases, it may be advantageous that
    the electrical connector tail 1250 is formed from a flexible conduit to facilitate connection with
    the force-sensing circuitry. For example, the electrical connector tail 1250 may be formed
    from a laminate of polyimide materials that have been printed or formed with electrical
30  conductive traces. In some cases, it may be further advantageous that the flexible conduit
    be configured to bend easily to facilitate routing within the limited space of the device
    enclosure. To improve the flexibility or bend radius of the connector tail 1250, it may be
    advantageous to eliminate or remove the intermediate, compressible element in at least an
    end portion of the connector tail 1250. Removing the intermediate, compressible element
                                                    Q r,

   may also facilitate electrical connection with one or more internal surfaces of the electrical
   connector tail 1250.
   [0151]     FIG. 13 depicts a cross-sectional view along line 3-3 of the electrical connector tail
   1250. As shown in FIG. 13, the electrical connector tail 1250 is formed from four circuit
 5 layers 1211, 1212, 1221, 1222. In this example, each of the circuit layers includes at least
   one flexible dielectric layer and at least one flexible conductive layer. The flexible dielectric
   layer may be formed from a polyimide sheet and the electrical conductive layer may be
   formed from a metal film or metallized trace material. Further, in this example, each of the
   circuit layers is electrically connected with a capacitive plate of one of the force-sensitive
 0 structures 1210, 1220 (depicted in FIG. 12). For example, the electrical conductive layer of
   circuit layer 1211 may be electrically connected to a first (upper) capacitive plate of the
   force-sensitive structure 1210. Similarly, the electrical conductive layer of circuit layer 1212
   may be electrically connected to a second (lower) capacitive plate of the force-sensitive
   structure 1210. Similarly, the circuit layers 1221 and 1222 are electrically connected to a
 5 first (upper) and a second (lower) capacitive plate, respectively, of the force sensitive
   structure 1220. In this example, each of the circuit layers 1211, 1221, 1222, and 1212 are
   electrically coupled to a respective terminal 1213, 1223, 1224, and 1214.
   [0152]     Alternatively, one or more of the circuit layers 1211, 1221, 1222, and 1212 may
   serve as a ground layer for the force-sensitive structure 1250. In one example either of both
 O of the outer circuit layers 1211 or 1212 are held at a constant voltage during the operation of
   the sensor to act as an electromagnetic shield. In some cases, the outer circuit layers 1211
   or 1212 are connected to ground during the operation of the sensor to facilitate
   electromagnetic shielding. One or more of the outer circuit layers may serve as a ground
   shield, depending on the location of the source of the interference. In some cases, one or
25 more additional ground shield circuit layers are added to the force-sensitive structure. These
   additional ground shield layers may be added, for example, to the outer surfaces of the outer
   circuit layers 1211 and 1212.      In one example, the conductive traces in any ground shield
   layer may extent substantially across the entire surface of the circuit layer to maximize the
   area that is shielded by the ground shield layer.
30 [0153]     As shown in FIG. 13, the two circuit layers 1211 and 1221 are separated from the
   other two circuit layers 1212, and 1222 by the intermediate compressible layer 1230. In this
   example, the compressible layer 1230 serves as the compressible element in the force
   sensors 1210, 1220. As also shown in FIG. 13, the compressible layer 1230 does not
   extend into an end portion 1255 of the electrical connector tail 1250. As shown in FIG. 13, a

   void region 1350 is formed between the pairs of circuit layers. In some embodiments, the
   tail may lack any intermediate compressible layer.
   [0154]     As explained above, this configuration may be advantageous from a few aspects.
   First, because there is no material connection between the upper and lower pairs of circuit
 5 layers, the bendability of the electrical connector tail 1250 is improved, which may facilitate a
   smaller bending radius. Additionally, because there is no material between the pairs of
   circuit layers, additional internal electrical terminals 1223 and 1224 may be used for
   electrical connections. This reduces the need for circuit vias or additional electrical routing
   that may otherwise be required to electrically connect the electrical conductive layers of
 0 internal circuit layers 1221, 1222 to an external terminal.
   [0155]     The tail 1250 may extend from the force-sensing structures 1210, 1220 and bend
   one or more times to connect to a flex or other electrical connection within the device. As
   one non-limiting example, the tail 1250 or, more appropriately, the flexible dielectric and
   flexible conductive layers may bend in a serpentine fashion to each an interconnect. Two
 5 separate structures may form the tail; each such structure may be formed from one flexible
   dielectric and one flexible conductive layer. Generally, the two tail structures may follow
   different paths insofar as one extends from the upper force-sensing structure 1210 and one
   from the lower force-sensing structure 1220. Nonetheless, the constituent structures of the
   tail 1250 are typically routed such that they do not experience any force exerted on a cover
 O glass, housing or other external force-sensitive surface. Thus, the tail 1250 may not present
   a secondary path for an exerted force to bypass the force sensor which, in turn, may
   increase the accuracy of the force sensor. Likewise, other components of the electronic
   device may be structured such that they do not absorb or divert force exerted against a
   force-sensitive surface of the electronic device.
25 [0156]     While the device 1200 depicted in FIG. 12 includes two force-sensing structures
   located around the periphery of a display element 1202, an alternative embodiment may
   include only a single force-sensing structure. In this case, the electrical connector tail may
   only include two conductive layers (on two circuit layers). In other alternative embodiments,
   a device may include more than two force-sensing structures and the electrical connector tail
30 may have multiple conductive layers to facilitate connection with each of the force-sensing
   structures.
   [0157]     FIG. 14 depicts an example process 1400 for manufacturing a force sensor having
   an electrical connector tail. The process 1400 can be used to manufacture the force sensors
   1210, 1220 having an electrical connector tail 1250 in accordance with the embodiments of
                                                      Q7

   FIGS. 12 and 13. The process 1400 may also be used to manufacture force sensors having
   a variety of configurations, including configurations having a single pair of conductive layers.
   [0158]      In operation 1405, a first circuit layer is obtained. In this example, the first circuit
   layer comprises at least a first flexible conductive layer and a first flexible dielectric layer.
 5 With reference to FIG. 13, the first circuit layer may include one of either of the circuit layers
   pairs 1211, 1221 or 1222, 1212. In some cases, the first circuit layer may be obtained by
   forming the first conductive layer on the first dielectric layer. The conductive layer may be
   formed by, for example, bonding a metal foil to a surface of the first dielectric layer. In some
   cases, the conductive layer may be formed by a deposition or sputtering process that
 0 deposits a conductive material onto the dielectric layer. In one example, the conductive
   layer also forms one or more of the capacitive plates used for the force sensor. In some
   cases, the first circuit layer is pre-manufactured and obtained as a sheet or die-cut
   component.
   [0159]      In operation 1410, a second circuit layer is obtained. In this example, the second
 5 circuit layer also comprises at least a second flexible conductive layer and a second flexible
   dielectric layer. With reference to FIG. 13, the second circuit layer may also include one of
   either circuit layer pairs 1211, 1221 or 1222, 1212 (that is also separated from the first circuit
   layer by the intermediate compressible layer 1230). As described above, the first circuit
   layer may be obtained by forming the first conductive layer on the first dielectric layer by
 O laminating a metal foil or depositing a conductive material onto a surface of the dielectric
   layer. The second circuit layer may also be pre-manufactured as a sheet or die-cut
   component.
   [0160]      In operation 1415, a laminate structure is formed. In particular, a laminate
   structure is formed such that the compressible layer is disposed between the first and
25 second circuit layers. With reference to FIG. 13, an exemplary laminate structure includes
   the four circuit layers 1211, 1221, 1222, 1212 and the compressible layer 1230. In many
   cases, other layers are formed as part of the laminate structure. For example, additional
   circuit layers, adhesive layers, and coatings may be formed as part of the laminate structure.
   In particular, an adhesive layer is typically used to bond the intermediate compressible layer
30 with the other, adjacent components of the laminate structure. It is not necessary that either
   the first or second circuit layers (obtained in operations 1405 and 1410) be immediately
   adjacent or bonded directly to the compressible layer.
   [0161]      Operation 1415 may be performed by, for example, placing pressure sensitive
   adhesive (PSA) layers between the components of the laminate structure. The laminate
35 may then be subjected to a pressing operation to bond the layers. In some cases, heat or

   other curing techniques may be employed to bond the layers together. In some
   embodiments, the PSA may be applied, all layers bonded, and then the structure die cut to
   its final form.
   [0162]       Operation 1415 may also be performed using an injection or insertion molding
 5 process. In this case, the first and second circuit layers may be laminated or pre-formed
   with other layers or components. The layers may then be placed in opposite halves of an
   injection mold cavity and the intermediate compressible layer may be formed between the
   layers by injecting a molten or liquid material into the injection mold. In one example, a
   spacer element is placed between the first in second circuit layers to hold the first and
 0 second circuit layers against the respective halves of the injection mold. The spacer
   element may be approximately the same thickness as the final dimension of the
   compressible layer. In one example, the spacer element is compressible and is slightly
   larger than the final dimension of the compressible layer to be injection molded between the
   first and second circuit layers. In this case, the spacer element exerts a force against the
 5 first and second circuit layers, which are pressed against respective cavity walls of the
   injection mold.    By pressing the circuit layers against the cavity walls, the injected molded
   material is more likely to fill the area between the circuit layers rather than filling an area
   between the circuit layers and the cavity walls. In one example, multiple spacer elements
   are used, each spacer element formed from a semi-circular ring. The spacer elements may
 O be placed near the injection point of the mold, which is typically near the center of the part.
   The spacer elements can then be removed by die-cutting the center portion of the part,
   which may also facilitate the creation of a viewing area for the display.
   [0163]      As part of operation 1415, one or more electrical vias may be formed between the
   various layers of the laminate structure. In some cases, electrical vias are formed through
25 the compressible layer to connect circuit layers that are disposed on opposite sides of the
   compressible layer. The vias may be formed by, for example, the addition of conductive
   pillar elements that electrically connect the conductive layers of different circuit layers.
   Additionally or alternatively, conductive regions within the compressible layer may be formed
   and then reflowed or otherwise electrically connected with conductive layers of the laminate
30 structure.
   [0164]       In some cases, the laminate structure that is formed in operation 1415 is cut to
   form the force sensor having an electrical connector tail. For example, if the first and second
   circuit layers (obtained in operations 1405 and 1410) are formed as a solid sheet of material,
   the laminate structure may be die cut to form the desired geometric profile features of the
35 force sensor. Specifically, a center portion may be cut out of the middle of the laminate
                                                    QQ

   structure to facilitate installation with a display element. Thus, the display element will be
   visible through the hole created in the middle of the laminate structure. As mentioned
   above, if the laminate structure includes spacer elements used for an injection molding
   process, they may be removed by this die cutting operation. Additional cuts may be
 5 performed to form the connector tail portion of the force sensor.
   [0165]      The cutting operation may be optional if, for example, the first and second circuit
   layers (obtained in operations 1405 and 1410) have been pre-cut or have been formed in the
   desired geometric profile shape. In this case, operation 1415 may also include an indexing
   operation to align the layers of the laminate structure.
 0 [0166]      In operation 1420, a portion of the compressible layer is removed from the
   laminate structure. In this example, a portion of the compressible layer located in an end
   portion of electrical connector tail is removed from the laminate structure leaving a void
   region between the first and second circuit elements. As explained above with respect to
   FIGS. 12 and 13, removal of the compressible layer may improve the flexibility or bendability
 5 of the laminate structure. It may also provide access to terminals or electrical connections
   on circuit layers that are internal to the laminate structure.
   [0167]      Removing the compressible layer may be accomplished using one or more
   techniques. In a first example, the compressible layer is perforated or pre-cut near the end
   portion of the electrical connector tail. Also, within the end portion of the electrical connector
 O tail, the pressure sensitive adhesive or other bonding layer may be omitted between the
   compressible layer and the adjacent layers of the laminate structure. In this case, the pre
   cut or perforation and the absence of a bonding layer allows the portion of the compressible
   layer in the end portion of the electrical connector tail to be removed.
   [0168]      In a second example, one or more layers of the laminate structure are delaminated
25 or stripped from the compressible layer exposing the compressible layer. In this case, as
   secondary cut operation may be performed to remove the portion of the compressible layer
   in the end portion of the electrical connector tail.
   [0169]      In a third example, the compressible layer may be cut from the end portion of the
   electrical connector tail without first delaminating or stripping layers of the laminate structure.
30 For example, the portion of the compressible layer within the end portion of the connector tail
   may be removed by passing a knife or cutting implement between the layers of the laminate
   structure.
   [0170]      As an alternative to operation 1420, the laminate structure may be formed such
   that the end portion of the electrical connector tail does not include the compressible layer.
                                                     A r)

   For example, if the laminate structure is formed using an injection or insertion molding
   process, an insert mold element may be placed in the end portion of the electrical connector
   tail preventing the formation of a compressible layer in this region. In this case, the laminate
   structure is formed with a void region between the first and second circuit layers.
 5 [0171]    As described above, the process 1400 may also be used to manufacture force
   sensors having a variety of configurations, including configurations having a single pair of
   conductive layers. For example, a force sensor having only two circuit layers (one on each
   side of the intermediate compressible layer) may be formed using process 1400.
   Alternatively, a force sensor having multiple circuit layers formed on either side of the
 0 intermediate compressible layer may also be formed using process 1400.
   [0172]    The operations of process 1400 are provided as one example. However, a force
   sensor may also be formed by omitting one or more of the operations described above. For
   example, depending on how the laminate structure is created, it may not be necessary to
   perform operation 1420 to remove a portion of the compressible layer.
 5 [0173]     In certain embodiments, the tail may be connected to a flex, circuit board or other
   electronic contact. In some embodiments, the entire force-sensing structure may be placed
   into an oven to bond the tail to the electrical contact through, for example, a surface-mount
   technology (SMT) process. In some embodiments, the SMT process may heat the tail (or
   portions thereof) and/or the electrical contact to 200 degrees or more. This elevated
 O temperature may have deleterious effects on the silicone of the force-sensing structure,
   however. Thus, the force-sensing structure may be placed in a heat-resistant envelope,
   pouch or other container with the tail extending outwardly therefrom. Thus, when the oven is
   heated for the SMT process, the tail may be heated to the appropriate temperature while the
   silicone and other layers of the force-sensing structure may be maintained at a temperature
25 that does not cause damage. Further, it should be appreciated that the force-sensing
   structure may not be singulated or cut into its final form prior to heating in the oven.
   [0174]     FIG. 15A depicts another embodiment 1500 of a force-sensing electronic device.
   Similar to other embodiments described herein, the embodiment 1500 may include and
   electronic device having a cover 1505 positioned over a display stack 1515, which may be
30 configured to detect the touch of a force on the surface of the cover 1505. The cover 1505
   may be formed from a variety of materials including, for example, glass, polycarbonate or
   other plastic, sapphire and the like. The display stack 1515 may include a liquid crystal
   display (LCD), organic light omitting diode (OLED), or other electronic display component.
                                                    AI

   [0175]      In some embodiments, the cover 1505 may move with respect to the housing
   1510. When a force is exerted on the cover 1505, by, for example, the touch of a user, the
   cover 1505 may travel downwardly. It should be appreciated that the entirety of the cover
   1505 may travel in such a fashion, rather than only deflecting locally while edges of the
 5 cover 1505 remain substantially immobile. Whether the cover 1505 deflects locally or not
   may depend on the relative stiffness of the cover 1505 and the components/elements
   positioned below the cover 1505.
   [0176]     In some embodiments, the downward travel of the cover 1505 likewise moves the
   display stack 1515 downward, which in turn may impact and/or compress a sheet sensor
 0 1520 positioned beneath the display stack 1515. The sheet sensor 1520 may include a
   capacitive-plate type force sensor, strain gauge sensor, or other force-sensitive sensor, and
   may generally be referred to as a force sensing structure, sensor, or sheet sensor. In
   general, the sheet sensor 1520 may extend over a substantial portion of the display stack
   1515. In some cases, the sheet sensor 1520 is formed from an array or series of force
 5 sensing elements that are disposed throughout the area of the sheet sensor 1520.
   [0177]     As shown in FIG. 15A, the sheet sensor 1520 may substantially abut the display
   stack 1515. In some embodiments, the sheet sensor 1520 may be separated therefrom by
   an air gap and/or other components or layers in certain embodiments. In some
   embodiments, the sheet sensor 1520 may be affixed directly to an element of the display
 O stack 1515.
   [0178]     The sheet sensor 1520 may be supported by a plate 1525 positioned below the
   sensor 1520 opposite the side facing the display stack 1515. In some embodiments the
   plate 1525 may be rigid or substantially rigid, while in other embodiments the plate 1525 may
   be flexible. Typically, although not necessarily, the sheet sensor 1520 is affixed to the plate
25 1525. In some embodiments, the plate 1525 may be fixed relative to the housing 1510 of
   the device. In some embodiments, the plate 1525 may be a mid-plate providing structural
   support and/or stiffness to the housing 1510 of the electronic device 1500, while in other
   embodiments the plate 1525 may be used primarily or solely to support the sheet sensor
   1520. In still other embodiments, other electronic components (not shown) may share the
30 plate 1525 with the sheet sensor 1520.
   [0179]     As the cover 1505 and display stack 1515 move downward, the sheet sensor 1520
   may be compressed. This compression may be sensed by the sheet senor 1520 and a
   corresponding output generated. For example, the sheet sensor 1502 may have first and
   second capacitive plates or arrays 1530, 1535 (as used herein, the term "plate" is intended
35 to cover an array as well) defining an upper surface and a lower surface of the sheet sensor,

   or otherwise positioned in an upper and lower region of the sensor. The first and second
   capacitive plates 1530, 1535 may be separated from one another by a compressible inner
   layer 1540, such as silicone or a compliant gel or polymer.
   [0180]     In some embodiments, the first and second capacitive plates 1530, 1535 are
 5 operatively coupled to a sensing circuit that is configured to estimate the force of a touch on
   the cover based on a change in capacitance between the first and second capacitive plates
   1530, 1535. In some implementations, sensing circuit is configured to generate a drive
   signal or electrical current that is used to detect and measure changes in capacitance
   between the first and second capacitive plates 1530, 1535. As the first capacitive plate 1530
 0 moves toward the second capacitive plate 1535, the reduction in distance may correspond to
   a change in capacitance between the plates, which may be correlated to the force exerted
   on the cover 1505.
   [0181]     It should be appreciated that the sheet sensor 1520 may operate as a self
   capacitance or mutual capacitance sensor to measure force in this fashion. Accordingly, in a
 5 mutual capacitance configuration, one of the first and second capacitive plates may be a
   drive plate and the other may be a sense plate. In a self-capacitance configuration, one of
   the first and second plates maybe a ground or shield layer while the other is a sense plate.
   Further, one or both plates of the sheet sensor 1520 may be formed in a pixel pattern (as
   may the sheet sensor 1520 itself) in order to locally register the application of a force and
 O provide a localized region at which a force is applied.
   [0182]     In an embodiment having a flexible or deflectable plate 1525 supporting the sheet
   sensor 1520, changes in capacitance may still be measured so long as the layers of the
   sensor sheet 1520 compress, even if the plate 1525 itself flexes. Similarly, in embodiment
   having an air gap between the sheet sensor 1520 and display stack 1515, a force of a touch
25 may not be sensed until the display stack moves far enough to compress or impact the sheet
   sensor.
   [0183]     It should be appreciated that the sheet sensor 1520, as shown in FIG. 15A, need
   not be transparent insofar as it is located beneath the display stack 1515. Further, such a
   configuration may be suitable not only for use with a display stack having an LED or LCD
30 display, but also with a display stack incorporating an OLED display layer.
   [0184]     FIG. 15B depicts an alternative embodiment 1500B of the embodiment shown in
   FIG. 15A. In this embodiment 1500B, foam 1545 or other compliant material or compliant
   layer may be placed between the display stack 1515 and sheet sensor 1520. The foam
   1545 may generally stiffen the display stack 1515 and/or cover 1505 and thus prevent the
                                                    AQ

    entire stack/glass from moving downward. Instead, when a force is exerted on the cover
    1505, the foam 1545 may deform locally and thereby concentrate the deformation and/or
    force in a localized region, which may in turn enhance the force-sensing capabilities of the
    embodiment 1500B. It should be appreciated that any suitable material may be placed
 5  between the display stack 1515 and the sheet sensor 1520; foam is but one example
    material.
    [0185]      In some embodiments, a compliant environmental gasket 1550 or seal may be
    positioned between the cover 1505 and housing 1510. The compliant gasket may prevent
    the ingress of dirt, dust and the like into the interior of the electronic device 1500B, but may
 0  still permit downward travel of the cover 1505 and display stack 1515. In alternative
    embodiments, the gasket 1550 may be relatively rigid and may cooperate with the foam
    1545 (or operate in the absence of the foam 1545) to restrict downward motion of the cover
    1505 at one or more edges, with the net result that the cover may deflect locally instead of
    traveling as a whole. Force may still be sensed in such an embodiment through localized
 5  compression of the sheet sensor 1520.
    [0186]      In some embodiments, a portion or all of the region occupied by the gasket 1550
    may be coated with an oleophobic material. The oleophobic material may serve as a barrier
    against, or repel, oils, dust, dirt and other similar materials from entering the housing 1510
    and/or impacting the force-sensing structure 1520. In this fashion the coating may serve to
 '0 maintain operation of the force-sensing structure over time. Coatings other than an
    oleophobic coating may be used; other dust- and/or oil- and/or dirt-repellent coatings may be
    used in different embodiments.
    [0187]      FIG. 15C depicts still another embodiment of a force-sensitive electronic device
    1500. This embodiment is generally similar to that of FIG. 15B, except for the structure of
25  the sheet sensor 1520C. Here, the sheet sensor 1520C may be patterned from one or more
    strain gauges rather than taking the form of a capacitive sensor. Individual strain gauges
    may be arranged in an array, grid, or other pattern to form the sheet sensor 1520C. The
    strain gauges may be formed from a material that changes electrical properties or produces
    an electrical response due to a deflection of the sheet sensor 1520C. The strain gauges
30  may be formed, for example, from a resistive material, piezoelectric resistive material,
    piezoelectric material, and the like. The strain gauges may also be formed as an array of
    strain gauge elements, each element comprised of a series of traces or patterns that may be
    configured to detect a localized strain or deflection.
    [0188]      As force is exerted on the cover 1505, it is transferred through the display stack
35  1515, through the foam 1545 (or other compliant layer), and to the strain gauge(s) of the
                                                      AA

   sheet sensor 1520C. The strain gauges may experience an increase in strain due to the
   exerted force; this increase in strain may be correlated to determine the magnitude of the
   exerted force as generally described elsewhere herein. In some embodiments, the sheet
   sensor 1520C is operatively coupled to sense circuitry that is configured to monitor and
 5 detect changes in an electrical property or measure and electrical response of the strain
   gauges of the sheet sensor 1520C. For example, the sense circuitry may be configured to
   detect a change in resistance and/or charge due to a deflection of the sensor sheet 1520C.
   [0189]     In the embodiments shown in FIGS. 15A-15C, the cover and display stack are
   generally free to translate with respect to the housing. In some embodiments, the cover
 0 and/or display stack may be adhered to the housing or otherwise fixed with respect to the
   housing, such that force exerted on the cover causes local deformation of the cover rather
   than translation. In such embodiments, force may be relatively localized insofar as the
   boundary conditions of the cover prevent motion. Since the cover may still deflect locally, a
   force may still be transmitted through the various layers and sensed by the force sensor
 5 (e.g., the sheet sensor).
   [0190]     FIG. 15D depicts a close-up of area 15D in FIG. 15C, showing one embodiment of
   a compliant layer 1545D positioned between the sheet sensor 1520 and the base of the
   display stack 1515. In the cross-sectional view of the electronic device 1500 shown in FIG.
   1, the compliant layer 1545D is formed from a series or array of pillar-like structures 1560
 O sandwiched between an upper compliant substrate 1555 and a lower rigid substrate 1565
   made of glass or the like. (In some embodiments, the lower substrate may also be
   compliant). In certain embodiments, the upper sheet 1555 may be formed from silicone, as
   may the pillar structures 1555. A sheet sensor 1520C is located beneath the lower substrate
   1565. In the present embodiment, the sheet sensor 1520C is formed of one or more strain
25 gauges, as discussed above with respect to FIG. 15C. The sheet sensor 1520C may be
   supported by a sense plate 1525, as generally discussed above.
   [0191]     In some implementations, the pillar structures 1555 may deform under downward
   pressure exerted on the compliant layer 1545C by the display stack 1515, or any other
   element of the electronic device 1500C that exerts pressure on the compliant layer 1545D.
30 One or more void spaces 1550 may be defined between and/or around the pillars 1555. For
   example, adjacent pillars 1550 may be separated by a void space 1560 and each void space
   1560 may be separate and distinct. As another option, a single void space 1560 may
   encompass all the pillars 1555. Different configurations of void spaces and pillar structures
   are thus contemplated.
                                                   Ar

    [0192]      As the pillar structures 1555 deform, the top sheet 1555 moves closer to the
    bottom sheet 1565 and the resistance of the pillar structure to further collapse increases.
    Further, the strain exerted on the sheet sensor 1520C through the compliant layer 1545D
    generally increases, causing the strain gauge output to increase. This increase in output
 5  may be correlated to a force exerted on the exterior of the housing.
    [0193]      In some embodiments, the void space or spaces 1550 may be filled with an
    optically transparent or near-transparent fluid, gel or the like (collectively, "fluid"). In some
    embodiments, the fluid may be optically indexed matched to the optical index of the pillar
    structures. That is, in certain embodiments, the index of refraction of the fluid may match or
 0  approximate that of the pillar structures 1555. In such an embodiment, the combination of
    fluid in the void spaces 1550 and pillar structures 1560 may render the compliant layer
    1545D optically transparent and/or near-invisible. This may be useful when the display is an
    OLED display, for example.
    [0194]      In yet another embodiment and as shown in FIG. 15E, the compliant layer 1545D
 5  may separate a lower capacitive sensing array 1570 from an upper capacitive sensing array
    1575. In such an embodiment 1500E, the capacitive sensing arrays 1570, 1575 may
    operate as described elsewhere herein, such that one array is a drive array (or reference
    array) and one is a sense array. The compliant layer 1545D may serve to prevent the two
    layers from approaching too close to one another and thus prevent, or at least reduce the
 '0 likelihood of, contact between the two layers and/or excessive capacitive coupling between
    the two layers, which may result in inaccurate force measurement.
    [0195]      FIG. 16 depicts a partial cross-section of another embodiment of a force-sensing
    electronic device 1630. This embodiment may include a force-sensing structure 1600 similar
    to that shown in FIGs. 2A and 3, and described elsewhere herein. For example, the force
25  sensing structure 1500 may be configured with multiple capacitive layers separated by a
    deformable middle body, as generally discussed with respect to FIG. 3 and/or the variants
    shown in FIGs. 4-6. The force-sensing structure 1600 may take the form of a gasket any
    may be located between the cover 1505 and a housing 1510. In one embodiment, the
    portion of the housing 1510 adjacent the cover 1505 may include a bezel or bezel portion.
30  [0196]      The force-sensing structure 1600 may extend partly or fully about a perimeter of
    the electronic device, cover, and/or portion of either. Alternately, multiple force-sensing
    structures 1600 may cooperate to extend partly or fully about a perimeter of the electronic
    device 1630, cover, and/or portion of either. In some embodiments, the force-sensing
    structure 1600 may be configured to prevent the ingress of contaminants into the interior of
35  the housing 1510 and, therefore, may also function as a gasket. In some cases, the

   combination gasket and sensor is referred to as a strain-sensitive gasket or gasket force
   sensing structure.
   [0197]      As with prior embodiments, the force-sensing structure 1600 may capacitively
   sense a distance between the first and second plates 1620, 1625 or other sensor structures;
 5 the output of the force-sensing structure 1600 may be correlated to a force by a sensing
   circuit, processor, or other electronic component of the force-sensing electronic device 1630.
   In some embodiments, the force-sensing structure 1600 is operatively coupled to sense
   circuitry that is configured to detect and measure changes to an electrical property of the
   force-sensing structure 1600, which may be correlated to the force of a touch on the cover
 0 1505.
   [0198]      In addition to the force-sensing structure 1600 generally positioned between the
   cover 1505 and bezel or housing 1510, the present embodiment may incorporate a force
   sensitive sheet sensor 1520. The sheet sensor 1520 is generally similar in configuration and
   operation to any of the sheet sensors described above with respect to FIGs. 15A-1 5D.
 5 [0199]      As shown in FIG. 16, the sheet sensor 1520 may be separated from the display
   stack by a small air gap. Additionally or alternatively, the sheet sensor 1520 may be
   separated from the display stack by a compressible layer similar to the compressible layer
   described above with respect to FIGS. 15B-E. When the cover 1505 and display stack 1515
   deflect in response to a force, the gasket force-sensing structure 1600 may compress and
 O sense force, as generally described herein. To prevent bottoming out of the cover and
   display stack when a force is applied away from the edges of the cover, the sheet sensor
   1520 may be included. When the display stack and cover deform sufficiently, they may
   contact the sheet sensor 1520 and transmit force thereto. The two force sensors 1600 and
   1520 may cooperate to determine a force. For example, the output of both force sensors
25 may be taken and manipulated to determine the force exerted on the cover. In this manner,
   the dynamic force sensing range of the device 1500 may be extended to sense and react to
   forces that would otherwise be sufficiently large to cause the cover to bottom out and the
   single gasket sensor 1600 to register a maximum value. In some embodiments, the air gap
   is configured to at least partially collapse in response to a force of a touch that exceeds a
30 first threshold. In some implementations, the first threshold is less than a second threshold
   that corresponds to a maximum force that can be practically or reliably detected by gasket
   force-sensing structure 1600.
   [0200]      FIG. 17 depicts yet another embodiment of an electronic device 1700 that may
   employ a sheet or pad sensor 1520 for capacitively measuring a force exerted on a cover
35 1505 (or, in other embodiments, a portion of a housing or a different type of input surface).
                                                     A7

    Generally, the structure and operation of the sheet sensor 1520 is similar to that described
    herein with respect to prior figures.
    [0201]     In addition to the upper and lower capacitive arrays of the sheet sensor 1520, a
    second capacitive sense layer/array 1705 may be placed within the display stack 1515. In
 5  one embodiment, the second capacitive sense layer 1705 may be formed from indium-tin
    oxide, silver nanowire, PEDOT, or any other suitable conductive material. In certain
    embodiments, it may be desirable for the second capacitive sense layer 1705 to be
    transparent.
    [0202]     In the embodiment 1700 of FIG. 17, the second capacitive sense layer 1705 may
 0  be placed relative to the display stack 1515. The capacitive sense layer 1705 may, in some
    instances, function as a capacitive touch sensor for sensing the location of a touch on the
    cover 1505. In some embodiments, the capacitive sense layer 1705 is positioned above a
    backlight unit 1710. If the second capacitive sense layer 1705 is transparent or nearly so, it
    may not interfere with the operation of the backlight unit 1710 and/or the remainder of the
 5  display stack 1515.
    [0203]     As shown in FIG. 17, an air gap may be located between the capacitive sense
    layer 1705 and the sheet sensor 1520. Additionally or alternatively, the sheet sensor 1520
    may be separated from the capacitive sense layer 1705 by a compressible layer similar to
    the compressible layer described above with respect to FIGS. 151B-E.
 '0 [0204]     As a force is exerted on the cover 1505 (or housing or input surface, in some
    embodiments), the cover and display stack 1515 are moved closer to the sheet sensor 1520.
    Thus, the second capacitive sense layer 1705 is likewise moved closer to the sheet sensor
    1520. Accordingly, a capacitance between at least a portion of the second capacitive sense
    layer 1705 and the upper capacitive array 1530 of the sheet sensor 1520 may increase with
25  such motion. Further, because the cover 1505, display stack 1515 and second capacitive
    sense layer 1705 may deform locally in response to the force, the capacitance may increase
    (or increase more) in the general region corresponding to the exerted force. This change in
    capacitance may be used to estimate the applied force, as generally described elsewhere
    herein.
30  [0205]     Under sufficient force, the backlight unit 1710 (or other base of the display stack)
    will contact the upper surface of the sheet sensor 1520. Once this occurs, the capacitance
    between the second capacitive sense layer 1705 and the upper capacitive array 1530 of the
    sheet sensor 1520 will generally reach a maximum value. Additional force may cause the
    sheet sensor 1520 to compress, thereby moving at least a portion of the upper capacitive

   array 1530 closer to the lower capacitive array 1535 and increasing a capacitance between
   these two elements, at least within a given region. Thus, even though the capacitance
   between the second capacitive sense layer 1705 and the upper capacitive array 1530 may
   be at maximum or near-maximum value, the increase in capacitance between the arrays
 5 1530, 1535 of the sheet sensor 1520 may be used to determine estimates of an exerted
   force.
   [0206]     In some embodiments, sensing circuitry is operatively coupled to the capacitive
   sense layer 1705 and the sheet sensor 1520. The sensing circuitry may be configured to
   estimate the force of a touch on the cover based on a change in mutual capacitance
 0 between the capacitive sense layer 1705 and the upper and/or capacitive plate of the sheet
   sensor 1520. In some embodiments, the sensing circuitry may be configured obtain a first
   capacitance between the upper capacitive plate and the lower capacitive plate of the sheet
   sensor and also obtain a second capacitance between the upper capacitive plate and the
   capacitive sense layer. An estimate of a force of a touch on the cover may be computed or
 5 generated using the first and second capacitances measured using the sensing circuitry.
   [0207]     It may be considered, then, that the capacitance between the second capacitive
   sense layer 1705 and the upper capacitive array 1530 may be used to determine or estimate
   an exerted force between zero and some first threshold value, and the capacitance between
   the upper and lower capacitive arrays 1530, 1535 of the sheet sensor 1520 may be used to
 O determine an exerted force between the first threshold value and a second threshold value.
   This combination of sensing structures may provide force sensing about a wider range of
   values than may be achieved by the use of a single sensor.
   [0208]     It should be appreciated that embodiments described herein may measure
   changes in force, thereby providing a non-binary or even substantially continuous input to an
25 associated electronic device, corresponding to changes in distance or less than 2 microns
   between two capacitive structures or arrays. Thus, although one or both of the capacitive
   structures or arrays may move with respect to the other, the motion may be imperceptible to
   a human interacting with the device. Changes in distance on the measure of nanometers
   may correspond to approximately one gram of force being exerted on a surface, as one non
30 limiting example.
   [0209]     While the present disclosure has been described with reference to various
   embodiments, it will be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and that the
   scope of the disclosure is not limited to them. Many variations, modifications, additions, and
   improvements are possible. More generally, embodiments in accordance with the present
35 disclosure have been described in the context of particular embodiments. Functionality may
                                                   AQ

be separated or combined in procedures differently in various embodiments of the disclosure
or described with different terminology. These and other variations, modifications, additions,
and improvements may fall within the scope of the disclosure as defined in the claims that
follow.

    CLAIMS
    We claim:
            1.      An electronic device, comprising:
                    a cover;
 5                  a display disposed within the electronic device and visible through the cover;
                    a force-sensing structure disposed within the electronic device on one side of
    the cover, comprising:
                            a first capacitive electrode;
                            a second capacitive electrode; and
 0                          a compressible element disposed between the first and second
    capacitive electrodes; and
                    a sheet sensor positioned on a side of the display opposite the cover and
    configured to be engaged by the display when a sufficient force is applied at a region of the
    cover away from an edge of the cover,
 5                  wherein:
                    the force-sensing structure and sheet sensor have different force sensing
    ranges;
                    at least before the display engages the sheet sensor, the force-sensing
    structure is configured to produce a first output that corresponds to an amount of force
 '0 applied to the cover; and
                    after the display engages the sheet sensor, the sheet sensor is configured to
    produce a second output that corresponds to the amount of force applied to the cover.
            2.      The electronic device of claim 1, further comprising:
25                  a housing defining an opening, wherein:
                    the cover is disposed over the opening; and
                    the force-sensing structure forms a gasket between the housing and the
    cover.
30          3.      The electronic device of claim 2, wherein:
                    the housing defines a bezel having a shelf surrounding the opening; and
                    the force-sensing structure is positioned between the shelf and the cover.
            4.      The electronic device of claim 1, wherein:
35                  the sheet sensor comprises:
                            an upper capacitive layer;
                                                      51

                            a lower capacitive layer; and
                            a compressible layer disposed between the upper and lower
   capacitive layers; and
                   the electronic device further comprises a plate affixed to and supporting the
 5 sheet sensor.
            5.     The electronic device of claim 4, wherein an air gap is located between the
   display and the sheet sensor.
 0          6.     The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the force-sensing structure
   comprises:
                   a first force-sensing segment disposed under a first edge of the cover; and
                   a second force-sensing segment disposed under a second edge of the cover;
   and
 5                 the electronic device further comprises force-sensing circuitry operatively
   coupled to the first and second force-sensing segments and configured to:
                            detect changes in capacitive coupling due to deflection of the first and
   second force-sensing segments; and
                            produce a signal that corresponds to the amount of force applied to
 O the cover.
            7.     The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the force-sensing structure
   comprises:
                   a first force-sensing segment disposed under a first edge of the cover, the
25 first force-sensing segment comprising the first capacitive electrode, the second capacitive
   electrode, and at least a portion of the compressible element;
                   a second force-sensing segment disposed under a second edge of the cover;
                   a third force-sensing segment disposed under a third edge of the cover; and
                   a fourth force-sensing segment disposed under a fourth edge of the cover.
30
            8.     The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the compressible element
   comprises a compliant sheet having a center opening in which the display is positioned.
            9.     The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the compressible element
35 comprises multiple segments positioned around a center opening in which the display is
   positioned.
                                                    52

            10.      An electronic device, comprising:
                     a cover;
                     a first force-sensing structure disposed under at least a first edge of the cover
    and comprising a first pair of capacitive elements separated by a compressible layer;
 5                   a second force-sensing structure disposed under at least a second edge of
    the cover and comprising a second pair of capacitive elements separated by the
    compressible layer; and
                     a sheet sensor positioned below the cover between the first and second
    force-sensing structures and configured to be engaged when a sufficient force is applied at a
 0  region of the cover away from an edge of the cover;
                     wherein:
                     the first and second force-sensing structures have a different force sensing
    range than the sheet sensor;
                     at least before the sheet sensor is engaged, the first and second force
 5  sensing structures are configured to produce first outputs that correspond to an amount of
    force applied to the cover; and
                     after the sheet sensor is engaged, the sheet sensor is configured to produce
    a second output that corresponds to the amount of force applied to the cover.
 10         11.      The electronic device of claim 10, further comprising:
                     a third force-sensing structure disposed under at least a third edge of the
    cover and comprising a third pair of capacitive elements separated by the compressible
    layer; and
                     a fourth force-sensing structure disposed under at least a fourth edge of the
25  cover and comprising a fourth pair of capacitive elements separated by the compressible
    layer.
            12.      The electronic device of claim 10, further comprising:
            a housing defining an opening having a shelf, wherein:
30          the cover is positioned within the opening; and
            the first and second force-sensing structures are positioned on the shelf under the
    cover.
            13.      The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the compressible layer comprises
35  multiple compressible element segments.
            14.      An electronic device, comprising:
                                                      53

                   a housing defining an opening;
                   a cover disposed over the opening;
                   a touch sensor disposed within the electronic device on one side of the cover
   and configured to detect a location of a touch on the cover;
 5                 a force-sensitive layer disposed within the electronic device on the one side of
   the cover; and
                   a force-sensing structure disposed on a side of the force-sensitive layer
   opposite the cover; and
                   a compressible layer located between the force-sensitive layer and the force
 0 sensing structure;
                   wherein:
                   the force-sensing structure is configured to be engaged when a sufficient
   force is applied at a region of the cover away from an edge of the cover, the sufficient force
   causing the compressible layer to collapse;
 5                 at least before the compressible layer collapses in response to an amount of
   force of the touch on the cover, the force-sensitive layer is configured to produce a first
   output that corresponds to the amount of force; and
                   after the compressible layer collapses in response to the amount of force, the
   force-sensing structure is configured to produce a second output that corresponds to the
 O amount of force.
           15.     The electronic device of claim 14, further comprising a support structure fixed
   relative to the housing and supporting the force-sensing structure.
25         16.     The electronic device of claim 14, wherein:
                   the force-sensitive layer comprises a capacitive electrode;
                   the force-sensing structure comprises a first capacitive layer and a second
   capacitive layer separated by a second compressible layer; and
                   the capacitive electrode of the force-sensitive layer is configured to
30 capacitively couple to the first capacitive layer of the force-sensing structure.
           17.     The electronic device of claim 16, wherein:
                   the electronic device further comprises sensing circuitry operatively coupled
   to the force-sensing layer and the force-sensing structure; and
35                 the sensing circuitry is configured to estimate an applied force on the cover
   based on a change in mutual capacitance between the capacitive electrode of the force
   sensitive layer and the first capacitive layer of the force-sensing structure.
                                                    54

           18.    The electronic device of claim 17, wherein the sensing circuitry is configured
  to:
                  obtain a first capacitance between the first capacitive layer and the second
5 capacitive layer of the force-sensing structure;
                  obtain a second capacitance between the capacitive electrode of the force
  sensitive layer and the first capacitive layer of the force-sensing structure; and
                  generate an estimate of the amount of force of the touch on the cover using
  the first and second capacitances.
0
           19.    The electronic device of claim 14, further comprising:
                  a display disposed between the cover and the force-sensing structure,
  wherein:
                  the compressible layer is located between the display and the force-sensing
5 structure.
           20.    The electronic device of claim 19, wherein:
                  the force-sensitive layer has a different force sensing range than the force
  sensitive structure.
0
                                                   55

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
