   ABSTRACT
   This disclosure concerns management of vehicle showrooms.           A processor receives
   user data associated with a user and sends the user data to a database to access a vehicle
   configuration previously stored in association with the user data, the vehicle
 5 configuration being used in a purchase process of a vehicle.         The processor then
   presents a user interface on a screen and presents in the user interface the vehicle
   configuration to proceed with the purchase process. The user data is sent to a data base
   to access a vehicle configuration that is then presented in the user interface.      As a
   result, the vehicle configuration that was previously stored in the database, such that by
10 a previous visit by the user, is made available and can be presented to the user the
   second time. The user is not required to remember any of the vehicle configurations
   and no data needs to be re-entered.

                                       1
                         AUSTRALIA
                       Patents Act 1990
              Fusion Software Development Pty Ltd
                 PROVISIONAL SPECIFICATION
Invention Title:
              Showroom management method and system
The invention is described in the following statement:

                                                 2
   Title
                                Showroom method and system
   Technical field
 5 This disclosure concerns management of vehicle showrooms.
   Background
   A vehicle showroom typically is an open plan room or hall where multiple vehicles,
   such as cars or boats, are displayed for potential customers to explore those vehicles. It
10 is desirable to make the experience for the potential customer as rich as possible in
   order to achieve a good number of sales from a given number of potential customers.
   With increasing combinations of different features, such as wheels and colours, it
   becomes increasingly difficult to manage the vehicle showroom optimally to achieve
   these sales figures.
15
   Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
   been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or
   all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge
   in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of
20 each claim of this application.
   Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or
   step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element,
25 integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
   Summary
   In a first aspect there is provided a computer-implemented method for vehicle
   showroom management, comprising:
30         receiving user data associated with a user;
           sending the user data to a database to access a vehicle configuration previously
   stored in association with the user data, the vehicle configuration being used in a
   purchase process of a vehicle;
           presenting a user interface on a screen; and
35         presenting in the user interface the vehicle configuration to proceed with the
   purchase process.

                                                  3
   It is an advantage that the user data is sent to a data base to access a vehicle
   configuration that is then presented in the user interface. As a result, the vehicle
   configuration that was previously stored in the database, such that by a previous visit
 5 by the user, is made available and can be presented to the user the second time. The
   user is not required to remember any of the vehicle configuration and no data needs to
   be re-entered.
   In client/merchant relationships it is difficult to determine the data that should be
10 accessed to maximise client satisfaction. In the particular case of a vehicle showroom,
   it was identified that accessing the vehicle configuration that is stored in association
   with the user data is particularly advantageous. A vehicle configuration is a dynamic
   data structure that can be accessed and updated by the user to proceed with the
   purchase process. As a result, accessing the vehicle configuration offers the advantages
15 of addressing exactly those needs that arise in vehicle showroom management.
   The computer-implemented method may further comprise:
           retrieving from the database stock status data associated with the vehicle
   configuration; and
20         presenting in the user interface the stock status data to indicate availability of the
   vehicle.
   The computer-implemented method may further comprise:
           retrieving from the database or receiving from the user interface test drive data
25 associated with the vehicle configuration to schedule a test drive; and
           presenting in the user interface the test drive data.
   The computer-implemented method may further comprise:
           retrieving from the database or receiving from the user interface order data
30 associated with the vehicle configuration; and
           presenting, based on the order data, in the user interface an order form
   associated with the vehicle configuration for the user to place an order;
   The computer-implemented method may further comprise:
35         retrieving from the database or receiving from the user interface trade-in vehicle
   data associated with the vehicle configuration;

                                                 4
           determining a discount associated with the vehicle configuration based on the
   trade-in vehicle data; and
           updating the order form in the user interface to include the trade-in vehicle data
   and the discount.
 5
   The computer-implemented method may further comprise:
           converting the order form to a digital contract; and
           presenting in the user interface the digital contract to be executed by the user.
10 The computer-implemented method may further comprise:
           receiving signature data via the user interface to execute the digital contract; and
           storing the executed digital contract in the database in association with the user
   data to complete the purchase process of the vehicle.
15 The computer-implemented method may further comprise:
           receiving from the user interface a user input changing the vehicle configuration
   associated with the user data; and
           updating the vehicle configuration associated with the user data based on the
   input data, or generating a new vehicle configuration associated with the user data
20 based on the input data.
   The computer-implemented method may further comprise:
           retrieving from the database or receiving from the user interface appointment
   data associated with the user data; and
25         presenting in the user interface the appointment data to schedule an appointment
   for the purchase process.
   In a second aspect there is provided a computer software program, including machine
   readable instructions, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform
30 the method of the first aspect.
   In a third aspect there is provided a computer system for vehicle showroom
   management, the computer system comprising:
           in input port to receive user data associated with a user;

                                                5
          an output port to send the user data to a database to access a vehicle
   configuration previously stored in association with the user data, the vehicle
   configuration being used in a purchase process of a vehicle; and
          a screen to present a user interface and to present in the user interface the
 5 vehicle configuration to proceed with the purchase process.
   In a fourth aspect there is provided a computer-implemented method for vehicle
   showroom management, comprising:
          receiving user data associated with a user;
10        presenting a user interface on a screen;
          receiving from the user interface a user input to form a vehicle configuration
   associated with the user data;
          presenting in the user interface the vehicle configuration; and
          storing the vehicle configuration associated with the user data in a database, the
15 vehicle configuration being used in a purchase process of a vehicle.
   The computer-implemented method of the fourth aspect may further comprise:
          retrieving from the database stock status data associated with the vehicle
   configuration; and
20        presenting in the user interface the stock status data to indicate availability of the
   vehicle.
   The computer-implemented method of the fourth aspect may further comprise:
          receiving from the user interface test drive data associated with the vehicle
25 configuration to schedule a test drive; and
          storing in the database the test drive data associated with the vehicle
   configuration.
   The computer-implemented method of the fourth aspect may further comprise:
30        receiving from the user interface order data associated with the vehicle
   configuration;
          presenting, based on the order data, in the user interface an order form
   associated with the vehicle configuration for the user to place an order; and
          storing in the database the order data associated with the vehicle configuration.
35
   The computer-implemented method of the fourth aspect may further comprise:

                                                 6
           receiving from the user interface trade-in vehicle;
           determining a discount associated with the vehicle configuration based on the
   trade-in vehicle data;
           updating the order form in the user interface to include the trade-in vehicle data
 5 and the discount; and
           storing in the database the trade-in vehicle data associated with the vehicle
   configuration.
   The computer-implemented method of the fourth aspect may further comprise:
10         converting the order form to a digital contract; and
           presenting in the user interface the digital contract to be executed by the user.
   The computer-implemented method of the fourth aspect may further comprise:
           receiving signature data via the user interface to execute the digital contract; and
15         storing the executed digital contract in the database in association with the user
   data to complete the purchase process of the vehicle.
   The computer-implemented method of the fourth aspect may further comprise:
           receiving from the user interface appointment data to schedule an appointment
20 for the purchase process; and
           storing in the database the appointment data in association with the user data.
   In a fifth aspect there is provided a computer software program, including machine
   readable instructions, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform
25 the method of the fourth aspect.
   In a sixth aspect there is provided a computer system for vehicle showroom
   management, the computer system comprising:
           in input port to receive user data associated with a user;
30         a screen to
                 present a user interface,
                 receive from the user interface a user input to form a vehicle configuration
   associated with the user data, and
                 present in the user interface the vehicle configuration; and
35         a data store to store the vehicle configuration associated with the user data in a
   database, the vehicle configuration being used in a purchase process of a vehicle.

                                                    7
   Optional features described of any aspect, where appropriate, similarly apply to the
   other aspects also described here.
 5
   Brief description of the drawings
   At least one example of the invention will be described with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
           Fig. 1 illustrates a mobile computer system for vehicle showroom management.
10         Fig. 2 illustrates a computer-implemented method for vehicle showroom
   management.
           Fig. 3 illustrates a customer user interface for entering customer information.
           Fig. 4 illustrates a beverage selection user interface.
           Fig. 5 illustrates a configuration user interface.
15         Fig. 6 illustrates a stock user interface.
           Fig. 7 illustrates a test drive user interface.
           Fig. 8 illustrates a trade-in user interface.
           Fig. 9 illustrates a trade-in valuation user interface.
           Fig. 10 illustrates an order and trade-in user interface.
20         Fig. 11 illustrates a quotation in user interface.
           Fig. 12 illustrates a contract user interface.
   Best modes of the invention
   Fig. 1 illustrates a mobile computer system 100, such as a tablet computer. The tablet
25 computer 100 may be an Apple iPad, Samsung Galaxy or any other tablet computer.
   The tablet computer 100 comprises a network interface 102 connected to a processor
   104. The processor 104 is further connected to program memory 106, data memory
   108 and to display 110 via display port 112. A sales person 114, operates the tablet
   computer 100 to access and view a vehicle configuration or a video of the vehicle and
30 show this content to a user, such as a potential customer.
   Software, that is an executable program, stored on program memory 106 causes the
   processor 104 to perform the method in Fig. 2, that is, the processor 104 receives
   customer data, sends the customer data to a database to access a vehicle configuration,
35 presents user interface on display 110 to sales person 114 and presents the vehicle
   configuration in the user interface 110.

                                                8
   In one example, the executable program is an app that is installed on the tablet
   computer 100 via an application provider, such as the Apple's App Store, Google Play
   or Amazon App Store.
 5
   The processor 104 may receive data, such as a vehicle configuration or status data,
   from data memory 108 as well as from the network interface 102. In some examples,
   the display is a touch screen display and allows a user to enter data such as by tapping
   keys on a virtual keyboard displayed on display 110. As a result, the processor 104
10 further receives data from the display port 112, which is connected to display 110.
   It is to be understood that any kind of data port may be used to receive data, such as a
   network connection, a memory interface, a pin of the chip package of processor 104, or
   logical ports, such as IP sockets or parameters of functions stored on program memory
15 106 and executed by processor 104. These parameters may be handled by-value or by
   reference in the source code. The processor 104 may receive data through all these
   interfaces, which includes memory access of volatile memory, such as cache or RAM,
   or non-volatile memory, such as an optical disk drive, hard disk drive, storage server or
   cloud storage.
20
   Fig. 2 illustrates a computer-implemented method 200 for vehicle showroom
   management. This method is performed by processor 104 of mobile tablet computer
   100 operated by sales person 114 in the showroom. One difficulty with managing a
   showroom is that many different potential customers enter the showroom and inquire
25 about different vehicles, such as cars, with different configurations. However, these
   contacts or leads are not captured and therefore, a returning customer cannot access a
   previously started purchase process. In the following description a potential customer
   is simply referred to a customer for the sake of simplicity.
30 The sales person 114 carries the tablet device and greets customers as the enter the
   showroom. Of course, showroom management can also reach outdoors in cases where
   some vehicles are parked on the parking lot in front of the actual showroom building,
   for example. In these cases, the sales person 114 may greet the customer as the
   customer enters the parking lot.
35

                                                9
   Fig. 3 illustrates a customer user interface 300 for entering customer information. The
   sales person 114 asks the customer for the customer's personal details and enters this as
   user data into the user interface 300. The user interface comprises input fields for
   customer number 302 and licence number 304. When the sales person 114 taps on a
 5 first camera symbol 306, the tablet computer 100 activates a camera and captures an
   identity document, such as a drivers licence of the customer.
   The user interface 300 further comprises input fields for first name 308, middle name
   310, last name 312, phone number 314, email address 316 and postal address 318.
10 There is a second camera symbol 320 to activate the camera to capture a business card
   of the customer. The user interface 300 further comprises appointment input fields 328
   comprising a date input field 330 and a time input field 332 to organise an appointment
   with the customer.
15 The processor 104 retrieves from the database or receives from the user interface
   appointment data associated with the user data. The processor 104 then presents the
   appointment data to schedule an appointment for the purchase process. This means, if
   the appointment data has been previously stored, the processor 104 retrieves it from the
   database and populates the interface 300 with the appointment data. For example,
20 when a customer enters the showroom and advises that there is an existing
   appointment, the sales person 114 can see the appointment data on interface 300.
   Alternatively, if no appointment data has been stored previously, the processor 104
   receives the new appointment data and presents this data in the user interface 300 to
   schedule an appointment for the purchase process, such as an appointment for a test
25 drive.
   In one example, the sales person 114 uses an electronic pen to handwrite quick notes.
   This makes the contact more personal and can be done standing up or walking through
   the showroom.
30
   At this stage, the sales person 114 may also order a coffee or other beverage or catering
   for the customer by selecting a food or drink item on the screen 110. Fig. 4 illustrates a
   beverage selection user interface 400. The processor 104 sends this order to the
   catering service, such as a bar, which can then prepare and serve the requested items.
35

                                                10
   The screen 110 may further display an interface for a needs analysis.        This analysis
   comprises a set of questions and the answers to these questions narrows down the set of
   suitable vehicles. These questions may be related to whether the vehicle will be used
   for a family, to take a dog on holidays or whether a seven seater is required.
 5
   Referring back to Fig. 2, as the sales person 114 enters the user data that is associated
   with the customer, the processor 104 receives 202 the user data that is entered into the
   user interface 300. Once the sales person 114 completes the entering of the data, such
   as by tapping a save button 334 in Fig. 3, the processor 104 sends the user data to a
10 database. In one example, the processor 104 sends the user data via a Wifi network
   that is managed by the showroom operator to a database that is hosted by the showroom
   operator.
   Of course, a car manufacturer may have many showrooms at different locations and
15 there may be a single database for all showrooms.          The communication between
   multiple tablet computers and the database may then be via a combination of Wifi and
   the Internet over a secure connection, such as VPN.
   The database has previously stored a vehicle configuration in association with the
20 customer data.     That is, the customer is returning for a second visit and the vehicle
   configuration is used in a purchase process of a vehicle. A vehicle configuration may
   comprise data that characterises a particular vehicle, such as brand, model, engine,
   colour and extras. An example of a vehicle configuration can be seen in Fig. 5, which
   will be referred to later. A vehicle configuration may be incomplete, for example, may
25 only comprise the model name and no further information.
   The database receives the user data and queries the stored data records for a matching
   user. For example, the sales person 114 may enter the phone number into a search field
   336 in Fig. 3 and the processor 104 sends the phone number to the database.           The
30 database then queries the stored records of customers for the entered phone number and
   identifies the customer with a respective customer identifier that is unique for this
   customer. The database returns the stored customer data, such as the customer name
   and address to the tablet computer 100 and the tablet computer automatically populates
   the user interface 300 with the received customer data. This way, the sales person 114
35 does not need to re-enter all the customer data when the customer is returning a second
   time and has already been captured previously.

                                               11
   The processor 104 sends the customer data to the database to access a vehicle
   configuration previously stored in association with the user data. For example, the
   customer has previously visited the showroom and showed interest in a Mercedes C63.
 5 This interest has been recorded in the database as a vehicle configuration in association
   with the user ID of the customer, such as an SQL record with the user ID as one data
   field and the model name as a second data field. When the customer returns the second
   time, the database receives the customer data from the tablet computer 100, retrieves
   the previously stored vehicle configuration and sends it to the tablet computer 100.
10 This way, the tablet computer 100 accesses the previously stored vehicle configuration
   via the database.
   The purchase process of a vehicle comprises several steps comprising a first impression
   of the vehicle in the showroom, preparing a complete configuration, arranging a test
15 drive and executing a purchase or leasing contract. Of course, the purchase process can
   have more or less steps than this. In any event, the vehicle configuration is used at each
   step of the purchase process in order to link the purchase to the purchased product, that
   is, exactly the vehicle that the customer wants to buy.
20 Once the processor 104 receives the vehicle configuration, processor 104 presents 206
   a user interface on screen 110 and presents 208 in the user interface the vehicle
   configuration to proceed with the purchase process.
   Fig. 5 illustrates a configuration user interface 500 that processor 104 presents on
25 screen 110. In this example, the processor 104 accesses a first vehicle configuration
   502 and a second vehicle configuration 504 from the database. The sales person 114
   can select one of the vehicle configurations 502 or 504 by tapping on the screen 110 at
   the respective locations.
30 In this example, the vehicle configuration 502 has an exterior section 506, and interior
   section 508 and a technical section 510. The exterior section 506 presents exterior
   configuration features, such as colour 512, wheels 514, tires 516 and optional exterior
   items 518. The interior section 508 presents interior configuration features, such as
   seat material and colour 520, surface finish 522 and optional interior items 524. The
35 technical section 510 presents technical configuration details, such as engine type 526,

                                                12
   power 528, torque 530, acceleration 532, fuel consumption 534, fuel tank capacity 526,
   other technical features 538 and optional technical equipment 540.
   The display of the vehicle configuration in user interface 500 may comprise an
 5 indicator 542 that particular aspects of the vehicle configuration are missing and need
   to be completed in order to finalise the purchase process of the vehicle. When the sales
   person 114 completes the missing aspects, the processor 104 receives from the user
   interface 500 a user input from the sales person 114, such as tapping on the selection
   element 544 of the missing rear wheel drive option. The user input changes the vehicle
10 configuration associated with the customer by including or excluding this particular
   option or my choosing one of multiple alternatives.
   The processor 104 updates the vehicle configuration based on the selection, that is, the
   processor 104 sends the updated vehicle configuration to the database such that the
15 database updates the appropriate records. If no existing vehicle configuration has been
   recorded previously, the user input causes the processor 104 to create a new vehicle
   configuration by sending the vehicle configuration to the database as a new record.
   At any point in the purchase process, the processor 104 can receive from the database
20 stock status data associated with a vehicle configuration. This means that the processor
   104 receives information on whether a vehicle is physically available at the location of
   the showroom with the exact configuration as provided or with a similar configuration.
   For example, if the model in the vehicle configuration comprises the term "SLS" the
   stock status data includes the availability of all vehicles with the term "SLS" in the
25 model.
   Fig. 6 illustrates a stock user interface 600 where the processor 104 presents the stock
   status data to indicate the availability of the vehicle and the customer can decide
   whether to purchase the available vehicle or order a different vehicle if the available
30 vehicle does not provide features that are important to the customer. The stock user
   interface comprises controls to proceed with an order 602, edit the order 604 and
   convert this stock information to a quotation 606.
   As a next step in the purchase process, the sales person 114 offers the customer a test
35 drive and selects a test drive option on the user interface. Fig. 7 illustrates a test drive
   user interface 700 before it is populated with data retrieved from the database.        The

                                               13
   processor 104 retrieves from the database test drive data, such as available vehicles for
   test driving. The processor 104 may also receive from the user interface 700 test drive
   data, such as a selection of one of multiple vehicles 702 or a date and time 704 the
   vehicle is taken out for a test drive. The test drive data is associated with the vehicle
 5 configuration such that it is recorded which vehicle the customer takes for a test drive
   and whether the test drive vehicle corresponds to the vehicle configuration provided
   earlier. Using the test drive user interface 700, the sales person 114 can also record
   when the vehicle was returned 706.
10 In one example, processor 104 records that the configuration of the vehicle in which the
   customer is interested, such as a sport version Mercedes C-class "C63 AMG".
   However, the closest available vehicle for a test drive is a standard C-class vehicle
   "C300". Since the processor 104 retrieves the association of the test drive data "C300"
   with the vehicle configuration information "C63 AMG" the sales person 114 can
15 explain to the customer that the test drive vehicle was not the sport version of the C
   class vehicle.
   To proceed with the purchase process, the processor 104 retrieves from the database or
   receives from the user interface order data associated with the vehicle configuration.
20 Order information may comprise an agreed price, payment rates, delivery date, etc.
   The processor 104 then presents an order form that includes the order data associated
   with the vehicle configuration. As a result, a returning customer can receive an order
   contract by providing the customer's name or telephone number and without having to
   remember the particular details of the vehicle configuration that were stored during the
25 last visit.
   Some customers wish to trade-in their old vehicle and receive a discount on the new
   vehicle in return. Fig. 8 illustrates a trade-in user interface 800. The processor 104
   receives from user interface 800 trade-in vehicle data, such as make 802, build date
30 804, model 806 and others as shown in Fig. 6.
   Fig. 9 illustrates a trade-in valuation user interface 900 comprising several elements
   that assist a valuer in determining the value of a trade-in vehicle. The valuation user
   interface 900 comprises selection elements similar to a check box such that the valuer
35 can record which aspects of the vehicle were checked. In the example of Fig. 9, the

                                                14
   check box comprises elements for motor 902, gear box 904, clutch 906, trim 908, tyres
   910, reg. 912 and suspension 914.
   The user interface 900 also comprises a damage location map 916 where the locations
 5 of existing damages or repairs can me marked, such as by tapping the screen at
   respective locations on the map 916.        Finally, the user interface 900 comprises a
   vehicle value 918.
   The processor 104 may either retrieve previously stored trade-in vehicle data from the
10 database or receive new trade-in vehicle data from the user interfaces 800 and 900.
   The processor 104 then determines the discount associated with the vehicle
   configuration based on the trade-in vehicle data.          In one example, discount is
   automatically determined based on technical features of the trade-in vehicle, such as
   model, engine and damages. The processor 104 may query offers of vehicles that are
15 currently for sale on car sales with a similar specification.    In another example, the
   discount is determined directly based on value 604 of the trade-in vehicle.
   The processor 104 then updates the order form in the user interface to include the trade
   in vehicle data and the discount as shown in the order and trade-in user interface 1000
20 in Fig. 10.    That is, the order form specifies the details of the trade-in vehicle and
   shows the discount and the remaining price of the vehicle to be purchased.
   Once the order form is completed, the processor 104 generates a quotation as shown in
   Fig. 11 that can be signed by sales person 114 using a signature input box 1102. The
25 processor 104 then converts the order form to a digital contract as shown in Fig. 12.
   The processor 104 presents the digital contract to be executed by the sales person 114
   using first signature input field 1202 and by the customer using second signature input
   field 1204.    The order contract may include an agreement on monthly repayments
   instead of a lump sum payment for the entire amount. When the customer and the sales
30 person 114 sign the contract electronically on the screen 110, the processor receives the
   signature data, such as an image file in jpg format of the signature and stores the
   executed digital contract associated with the user data, that is the processor 104 stores
   the digital contract associated with the signature data to complete the purchase process
   of the vehicle.    In one example, the processor 104 stores the executed contract by
35 sending the contract to the database so that the executed contract is stored in the
   database.

                                                 15
   Both the quotation as well as the digital contract can be exported to pdf or sent to a
   printer to create a paper copy of the digital contract. Since the user data and the vehicle
   configuration are available from the previous steps, the digital contract can be
 5 generated automatically with little or no additional input from the sales person 114.
   It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
   modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments
   without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as broadly described.
10
   It should be understood that the techniques of the present disclosure might be
   implemented using a variety of technologies. For example, the methods described
   herein may be implemented by a series of computer executable instructions residing on
   a suitable computer readable medium. Suitable computer readable media may include
15 volatile (e.g. RAM) and/or non-volatile (e.g. ROM, disk) memory, carrier waves and
   transmission media. Exemplary carrier waves may take the form of electrical,
   electromagnetic or optical signals conveying digital data steams along a local network
   or a publically accessible network such as the internet.
20 It should also be understood that, unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from
   the following discussion, it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions
   utilizing terms such as "receiving" or "sending" or "obtaining" or "calculating" or
   "storing" or "determining" or the like, refer to the action and processes of a computer
   system, or similar electronic computing device, that processes and transforms data
25 represented as physical (electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers
   and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the
   computer system memories or registers or other such information storage, transmission
   or display devices.

                                                 16
   CLAIMS:
   1.      A computer-implemented method for vehicle showroom management,
   comprising:
           receiving user data associated with a user;
 5         sending the user data to a database to access a vehicle configuration previously
   stored in association with the user data, the vehicle configuration being used in a
   purchase process of a vehicle;
           presenting a user interface on a screen; and
           presenting in the user interface the vehicle configuration to proceed with the
10 purchase process.
   2.      The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising:
           retrieving from the database stock status data associated with the vehicle
   configuration; and
15         presenting in the user interface the stock status data to indicate availability of the
   vehicle.
   3.      The computer-implemented method according to claim 1 or 2, further
   comprising:
20         retrieving from the database or receiving from the user interface test drive data
   associated with the vehicle configuration to schedule a test drive; and
           presenting in the user interface the test drive data.
   4.      The computer-implemented method according to any one of the preceding
25 claims, further comprising:
           retrieving from the database or receiving from the user interface order data
   associated with the vehicle configuration; and
           presenting, based on the order data, in the user interface an order form
   associated with the vehicle configuration for the user to place an order;
30
   5.      The computer-implemented method according to claim 4, further comprising:
           retrieving from the database or receiving from the user interface trade-in vehicle
   data associated with the vehicle configuration;
           determining a discount associated with the vehicle configuration based on the
35 trade-in vehicle data; and

                                                 17
           updating the order form in the user interface to include the trade-in vehicle data
   and the discount.
   6.      The computer-implemented         method according to claim 4 or 5,           further
 5 comprising:
           converting the order form to a digital contract; and
           presenting in the user interface the digital contract to be executed by the user.
   7.      The computer-implemented method according to claim 6, further comprising:
10         receiving signature data via the user interface to execute the digital contract; and
           storing the executed digital contract in the database in association with the user
   data to complete the purchase process of the vehicle.
   8.      The computer-implemented method according to any one of the preceding
15 claims, further comprising:
           receiving from the user interface a user input changing the vehicle configuration
   associated with the user data; and
           updating the vehicle configuration associated with the user data based on the
   input data, or generating a new vehicle configuration associated with the user data
20 based on the input data.
   9.      The computer-implemented method according to any one of the preceding
   claims, further comprising:
           retrieving from the database or receiving from the user interface appointment
25 data associated with the user data; and
           presenting in the user interface the appointment data to schedule an appointment
   for the purchase process.
   10.     A computer software program, including machine-readable instructions, when
30 executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform the method of any one of the
   claims 1-9.
   11.     A computer system for vehicle showroom management, the computer system
   comprising:
35         an input port to receive user data associated with a user;

                                                 18
           an output port to send the user data to a database to access a vehicle
   configuration previously stored in association with the user data, the vehicle
   configuration being used in a purchase process of a vehicle; and
           a screen to present a user interface and to present in the user interface the
 5 vehicle configuration to proceed with the purchase process.
   12.     A computer-implemented method for vehicle showroom management,
   comprising:
           receiving user data associated with a user;
10         presenting a user interface on a screen;
           receiving from the user interface a user input to form a vehicle configuration
   associated with the user data;
           presenting in the user interface the vehicle configuration; and
           storing the vehicle configuration associated with the user data in a database, the
15 vehicle configuration being used in a purchase process of a vehicle.
   13.     The computer-implemented method according to claim 12, further comprising:
           retrieving from the database stock status data associated with the vehicle
   configuration; and
20         presenting in the user interface the stock status data to indicate availability of the
   vehicle.
   14.     The computer-implemented method according to claim 12 or 13, further
   comprising:
25         receiving from the user interface test drive data associated with the vehicle
   configuration to schedule a test drive; and
           storing in the database the test drive data associated with the vehicle
   configuration.
30 15.     The computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 12-14,
   further comprising:
           receiving from the user interface order data associated with the vehicle
   configuration;
           presenting, based on the order data, in the user interface an order form
35 associated with the vehicle configuration for the user to place an order; and
           storing in the database the order data associated with the vehicle configuration.

                                                 19
   16.     The computer-implemented method according to claim 15, further comprising:
           receiving from the user interface trade-in vehicle;
           determining a discount associated with the vehicle configuration based on the
 5 trade-in vehicle data;
           updating the order form in the user interface to include the trade-in vehicle data
   and the discount; and
           storing in the database the trade-in vehicle data associated with the vehicle
   configuration.
10
   17.     The computer-implemented method according to claim 15 or 16, further
   comprising:
           converting the order form to a digital contract; and
           presenting in the user interface the digital contract to be executed by the user.
15
   18.     The computer-implemented method according to claim 17, further comprising:
           receiving signature data via the user interface to execute the digital contract; and
           storing the executed digital contract in the database in association with the user
   data to complete the purchase process of the vehicle.
20
   19.     The computer-implemented method according to any one of 12-18 claims,
   further comprising:
           receiving from the user interface appointment data to schedule an appointment
   for the purchase process; and
25         storing in the database the appointment data in association with the user data.
   20.     A computer software program, including machine-readable instructions, when
   executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform the method of any one of the
   claims 12-19.
30
   21.     A computer system for vehicle showroom management, the computer system
   comprising:
           an input port to receive user data associated with a user;
           a screen to
35               present a user interface,

                                               20
                receive from the user interface a user input to form a vehicle configuration
  associated with the user data, and
               present in the user interface the vehicle configuration; and
         a data store to store the vehicle configuration associated with the user data in a
5 database, the vehicle configuration being used in a purchase process of a vehicle.

                                     1/12
                       100
<removed-date>
                             102                      106
                                                    prog
                                                    data
<removed-apn>
                               112
                                        104         108
                                     110
                                              114
              Fig. 1

                                                 2/12
<removed-date>
                200
              202
                                          receiving user data
<removed-apn>
              204      sending the user data to a database to access a vehicle
                                            configuration
              206              presenting a user interface on a screen
              208      presenting in the user interface the vehicle configuration
              Fig. 2

                                                    3/12
<removed-date>
                          300
                                                                       336
<removed-apn>
                                                                 306
                                        302                304
                                308                  310               312
                                  314               316          320
                                              318
                                  322               324                      326
              328
                                                      332
                                      330
                    334
              Fig. 3

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 4
                              400
                                    4/12

                             5/12
               500
<removed-date>
              502
<removed-apn>
                                    504
              506
                              512                             516
                                    514               518
              508
                                          522           524
                       420
              510                                               542
                        544                     538
                                                              540
                 526
                 528
                 530
                 532
                 534
                 536
              Fig. 5

                                    6/12
                       600
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                        602   604    606
              Fig. 6

                             7/12
               700
<removed-date>
                       702
<removed-apn>
                                          704
                                    706
              Fig. 7

                             8/12
               800
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>             802          806   804
              Fig. 8

                                         9/12
               900
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                   902
                                   904
                                                      916
                              906
                             908
                             910
                             912
                             914
                       918
              Fig. 9
                                                606

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 1000
Fig. 10
                                        10/12

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                        1100
Fig. 11
                                               11/12
          1102

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 12
          1202
                                               12/12
             1204

