           ABSTRACT
           According to the invention there         is provided   a computer networked
   environment for implementing a system (1) for delivering a multi-step program - in
   the form of a time spaced series of skin care treatments - to a customer. The system
 5 (1) includes a supplier server (2) for maintaining a database (3) that contains program
   information indicative of the program, customer information indicative of the
   customer, and outlet information indicative of the outlet. A remote provider terminal
   (4) is located at a program outlet (5) where the customer attends for delivery of the
   treatments, the terminal being linked to server (2) for selectively accessing the
10 information to facilitate delivery to the customer of the next treatment in the multi
   step program.
   (FIG. 1)

                                                 1/2
                                               FIGURE 1
                1
                                                    42
                                                                       PTSN
 14                                                                                   3
                        Display
12                                                               HE
                        M      mTelecoms                                 Server       Database
          1Mini-computer2
                                                      8'
 15                       16
                                                                                           Server
    13
    I16                                                     I-Supplier
13      I   Mous
            Mouse
                                                          I     Web Server
                     C/)
                                                 Network
                     0            8                                    22
                     0
                     IL
31
    - ---- ---- ----- - ---                                                     23                20    21
            33                                    F      PRODUCTS                 ooo
                                                                                            Web Browser
                                  D bM
                                  Web Server
                                 Database Server

                                               -1
 A SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INTERFACING BUYERS AND SELLERS OF
                              GOODS AND/OR SERVICES
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]       The present invention relates to a system and method for interfacing
   buyers and sellers of goods and/or services.
[0002]       The invention has been developed primarily to provide a system
   framework for delivering multi-step beauty, cosmetic and bodily care programs to
   customers and will be described hereinafter with reference to that application.
   However, the invention is not limited to that particular field of use and is suitable
   for facilitating the promotion and/or sale of other goods and/or services, and the
   delivery of other multi-step programs where skilled human expertise is required,
   such as automotive servicing, medical and rehabilitation programs, fitness
   programs, education and training programs, and the like.
BACKGROUND
[0003]       Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no
   way be considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms
   part of common general knowledge in the field.
[0004]       The delivery of beauty and cosmetic treatments typically occurs through
   salons, beauty parlors, and other like establishments. These establishments, while
   many and varied in nature, are widespread, often smaller in size, and have loyal
   customers. However, due to the dispersed and fractured nature of the market for
   these treatments, there are few structured programs for customers - primarily due
   to the high capital costs involved in developing such a program - the result of
   which is that it is more usual for a customer to have a "once-off' treatment.
[0005]       In the event that an establishment wishes to establish a structured program
   the usual approach is to align the establishment with a particular manufacturer or
   supplier of products that are used in that treatment. However, this generally results
   in the establishment having to stock large amounts of the products in anticipation

                                                -2
    of the customers' needs, and to be excluded from using products from other
    manufacturers even if a customer has a preference for the latter. The adverse cash
    flow    and customer relation impact of this, particularly            on the smaller
    establishments, is often significant.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00061        It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least
    one of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
[00071        According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a system for
    interfacing buyers and sellers of goods and/or services, the system including:
         a first server for maintaining a database containing product information
indicative of the goods and/or services, buyer information indicative of the buyers,
and seller information indicative of the sellers, the first server: being selectively
responsive to changes in one or more of the product, buyer or seller information for
generating order information relating buyers to specific goods and/or services that
have been purchased; and tracking the purchases to allow the payment of commissions
to the corresponding sellers of the specific goods and/or services; and
         a plurality of remote terminals being disposed at locations where the sellers
offer for sale the goods and/or services, the terminals being linked to the server for
selectively accessing the information to facilitate the purchase of the goods and/or
services by the buyers and being responsive to the purchase of the goods and/or
services by the buyer for selectively changing the information.
[0008]        In an embodiment, the system server is operated by an administrator, and
    the administrator provides the terminals to the sellers. Preferably, the terminals are
    linked to the server via a computer network. More preferably, the network is the
    internet. However, in other embodiments, the network is a WAN, a LAN, a LEO
    uplink, a public telecommunications network, a private landline, a wireless network
    or a combination of these.
[0009]        In an embodiment, each terminal includes a storage device that stores
    program information indicative of one or more programs of supply of goods and/or
    services to a buyer.      Preferably, the storage device is selectively accessed to

                                                -3
   provide the program information to a buyer or a seller.          More preferably, the
   storage device is selectively accessed to update the program information. In an
   embodiment, the terminal includes a communication device through which the
   storage device is accessed to update the program information.                 In some
   embodiments, the communication device affects the link between the terminal and
   the server. That is, the communication device is an internal modem, a PCMCIA
   card, or other communications        card.     In other embodiments, however, the
   communications device includes a port for communicating with a portable storage
   medium      that includes    the  updated program      information.      That   is, the
   communications device is a drive for receiving one or more of: a removable hard
   drive, a CD; a DVD; or other memory device.               In other embodiments, the
   communications device is a port for interacting with a memory device that uploads
   drivers. For example, a USB port that interacts with a memory stick.
[0010]       In an embodiment, the terminals are available for use by the buyers and
   the sellers. Preferably, each of the buyers and sellers is allocated a unique user
   identifier that is entered via the terminal prior to the use being permitted. More
   preferably, each of the buyers and the sellers has a password that is entered via the
   terminal and verified, together with the user identifier, prior to the terminal being
   available for use to the respective buyer or seller. That is, to use the terminal, the
   buyer or seller has to be authorized to do so, and must provide the required level of
   identification prior to be granted access.
[0011]       In an embodiment, the terminal is responsive to the entry of the user
   identifier and the password for obtaining the verification. Preferably, the terminal
   communicates data indicative of the user name and password to the server to obtain
   the verification.
[0012]       In an embodiment, the terminal is responsive to the identifier for providing
   selective access to the information contained on the database.         Preferably, the
   terminal is responsive to the identifier for providing selective access to the program
   information. More preferably, the storage device includes a duplicate of some of
   the information contained on the database.

                                                -4
[00131        According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method
    for interfacing buyers and sellers of goods and/or services, the method including:
         maintaining on a first server a database containing product information
indicative of the goods and/or services, buyer information indicative of the buyers,
and seller information indicative of the sellers, the first server: being selectively
responsive to changes in one or more of the product, buyer or seller information for
generating order information relating buyers to specific goods and/or services that
have been purchased; and tracking the purchases to allow the payment of commissions
to the corresponding sellers of the specific goods and/or services; and
         disposing a plurality of remote terminals at locations where the sellers offer for
sale the goods and/or services, the terminals being linked to the server for selectively
accessing the information to facilitate the purchase of the goods and/or services by the
buyers and being responsive to the purchase of the goods and/or services by the buyer
for selectively changing the information.
[0014]        According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a system for
    delivering a multi-step program to a customer, the system including:
         a supplier server for maintaining a database containing program information
indicative of the program and customer information indicative of the customer, the
supplier server: being selectively responsive to changes in one or more of the program
or customer information for generating order information relating customers to
specific programs that have been purchased; and tracking the purchases to allow the
payment of commissions to corresponding sellers of the specific programs; and
         a remote provider terminal located at a program outlet where the customer
attends for delivery of the program, the terminal being linked to the server for
selectively accessing the information to facilitate delivery to the customer of the next
step in the multi-step program and being responsive to the purchase of the program by
the customer for selectively changing the information.
[0015]        In an embodiment, the remote provider terminal provides an update signal
    to the server in response to the next step in the multi-step program being
    completed, and the server is responsive to the signal for updating the one or more
    of the program information or the customer information.

                                                -5
[00161       In an embodiment, the database contains provider information indicative
   of the provider.
[00171       Preferably, the system delivers a plurality of multi-step programs to a
   plurality of customers. More preferably, the system includes a plurality of remote
   provider terminals located in a plurality of program outlets.      While typically a
   given customer is engaged in only one program, in some embodiments, a given
   customer is engaged simultaneously in more than one program. In the case of the
   latter, and in one embodiment, that customer attends more than one outlet to be
   delivered those respective programs.          However, in other embodiments, that
   customer attends the same outlet for delivery of those programs.
[0018]       In an embodiment, the remote provider terminal includes a visual display,
   and a processing unit for interfacing with the server and the display. Preferably,
   the terminal includes an input device for allowing the customer to selectively
   access and/or change the program information or the customer information. More
   preferably, the outlet has at least one staff member who assists with the delivery of
   the program, and the input device allows the staff member to selectively access
   and/or change the program information or the customer information.
[0019]       In an embodiment, the input device is a computer mouse. Preferably, the
   mouse is a wireless mouse, and the terminal includes a wireless communicator that
   interfaces with the processor and which wirelessly interfaces with the mouse.
   More preferably, the wireless mouse is an infra-red mouse. However, in other
   embodiments, the mouse is a BluetoothTM mouse, while in other embodiments
   other wireless forms of communication are used.
[0020]       In an embodiment, the visual display is a dynamic display such as a
   computer screen.
[0021]       In an embodiment, the terminal is linked to the server via a telephone line.
   However, in other embodiment, the connection is by way of dedicated cable, while
   in other embodiments, a wireless connection is used.          Preferably, the server
   delivers web pages to the terminal. However, in other embodiments, use is made
   of other forms of delivery.

                                              -6
[00221      In an embodiment, the terminal includes a storage device for storing some
   of all of the program information. Accordingly, there is no need to transmit this
   substantive information along what may only be a standard telephone line.
   However, should there be a need to update minor parts of the program information,
   that can occur in non-peak times. In an embodiment, the storage device is a hard
   drive, while in other embodiments the storage device is a CD ROM or DVD. Other
   storage devices will be known to those skilled in the art.
[00231      In an embodiment, the server includes a customer interface for allowing
   the customer to selectively access some or all of the customer information or the
   program information via a customer terminal.        In this embodiment, the server
   provides the interface as a browser based interface and, as such, the customer is
   able to access the selected information from any online computer having a web
   browser.
[0024]      In the embodiments, the system has a variety of security mechanisms for
   ensuring the security and safety of the information retained on database 3. Any
   person having access to that information, including the staff member and the
   customer, are allocated unique user identities and must use passwords to log onto
   the server. Logs are kept of all events, including details of: the information that
   was accessed; the user identity; the time; and what, if any, changes were made to
   the information.
[0025]      In an embodiment, the customer information includes records of the
   timing for the next step in the multi-step program and the outlet at where that next
   step is to be delivered.     Preferably, the server is responsive to the customer
   information for formulating stocking information indicative of needs for one or
   more predetermined products at the outlet. More preferably, the system includes a
   stocking depot that is responsive to selective stocking information for affecting
   delivery to the outlet of one or more predetermined products. That is, the outlet is
   delivered the predetermined product as and when required, thereby reducing the
   overhead for the individual outlet.
[00261      In an embodiment, the stocking information is indicative of services

                                               -7
   required at the outlet, and the stocking depot is responsive to selective stocking
   information for affecting attendance at the outlet of one or more predetermined
   personnel. For example, in an embodiment, the next step in the program requires
   input from a person with specialist skills, and the stocking depot includes a register
   of such persons and provides them with instructions to attend the particular outlet
   at the required time.
[00271       In an embodiment, the multi-step program is a series of time spaced apart
   bodily cosmetic treatments that involve the use of predetermined cosmetic
   products. Preferably, the outlet is a salon where the treatments are to be provided,
   and the remote provider terminal is located in the salon for not only facilitating the
   timely delivery of the predetermined cosmetic products to the salon, but also for
   providing an audible and visual guide to the customer and the staff member as to
   the detailed implementation of the next step or steps in the treatment.
[0028]       According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided a method
   for delivering a multi-step program to a customer, the method including:
        maintaining with a supplier server a database containing program information
indicative of the program and customer information indicative of the customer, the
supplier server: being selectively responsive to changes in one or more of the program
or customer information for generating order information relating customers to
specific programs that have been purchased; and tracking the purchases to allow the
payment of commissions to corresponding sellers of the specific programs; and
        locating a remote provider terminal at a program outlet where the customer
attends for delivery of the program, the terminal being linked to the server for
selectively accessing the information to facilitate delivery to the customer of the next
step in the multi-step program and being responsive to the purchase of the program by
the customer for selectively changing the information.
[0029]       According to a fifth aspect of the invention there is provided a remote
   terminal for an outlet where buyers attend to purchase goods and/or services from a
   seller, the terminal including:
        a visual display device for displaying both an image and a cursor that is
overlaid on that image;

                                                 -8
         a storage device for containing programming information;
         an input device that provides displacement information and only one type of
actuation information; and
         a processor that is responsive to: the displacement information for moving the
cursor about the image; and the actuation information and the location of the cursor on
the image for selectively accessing the programming information for changing the
image being displayed.
[0030]        In an embodiment, the input device includes a single actuator for
   providing the one type of actuation information. In other embodiments, however,
   the input device includes a plurality of actuators for providing the actuation
   information.
[0031]        According to a sixth aspect of the invention there is provided a method for
   operating an outlet where buyers attend to purchase goods and/or services from a
   seller, the method including:
         providing a visual display device for displaying both an image and a cursor
that is overlaid on that image;
         containing programming information a storage device;
         providing an input device that provides displacement information and only one
type of actuation information; and
         being responsive to: the displacement information for moving the cursor about
the image; and the actuation information and the location of the cursor on the image
for selectively accessing the programming information for changing the image being
displayed.
[0032]        According to a seventh aspect of the invention there is provided a system
   for interfacing buyers and sellers of goods and/or services, the system including:
         a database containing product information indicative of the goods and/or
services, buyer information indicative of the buyers, and seller information indicative
of the sellers;
         a first server: being selectively responsive to changes in one or more of the
product, buyer or seller information for generating order information relating buyers
to specific goods and/or services that have been purchased; and tracking the purchases

                                                 -9
to allow the payment of commissions to the corresponding sellers of the specific
goods and/or services;
         a plurality of remote terminals being disposed at locations where the sellers
offer for sale the goods and/or services, each terminal being activated by one of the
buyers or sellers, and being responsive to the activation for linking the terminal to the
database for selectively accessing the information and facilitate the purchase of the
goods and/or services by the buyers and being responsive to the purchase of the goods
and/or services by the buyer for selectively changing the information; and
         a display having a background upon which are superimposed images for
viewing by one or more of the sellers and/or buyers, the background being varied in
accordance with one or more of the buyer information, the seller information, and the
product information.
[00331        According to an eighth aspect of the invention there is provided a method
   for interfacing buyers and sellers of goods and/or services, the method including:
         providing a database containing product information indicative of the goods
and/or services, buyer information indicative of the buyers, and seller information
indicative of the sellers;
         providing a first server: being selectively responsive to changes in one or more
of the product, buyer or seller information for generating order information relating
buyers to specific goods and/or services that have been purchased; and tracking the
purchases to allow the payment of commissions to the corresponding sellers of the
specific goods and/or services;
         disposing a plurality of remote terminals at locations where the sellers offer for
sale the goods and/or services, each terminal being activated by one of the buyers or
sellers, and being responsive to the activation for linking the terminal to the database
for selectively accessing the information and facilitate the purchase of the goods
and/or services by the buyers and being responsive to the purchase of the goods and/or
services by the buyer for selectively changing the information; and
         providing a display having a background upon which are superimposed images
for viewing by one or more of the sellers and/or buyers, the background being varied
in accordance with one or more of the buyer information, the seller information, and
the product information.

                                                   - 10
[00341        According to a ninth aspect of the invention there is provided a remote
    terminal for an outlet where buyers attend to purchase goods and/or services from a
    seller, the terminal including:
         an input device for inputting transaction information in relation to purchase of
goods and/or services from a buyer, the transaction information including product
information indicative of the goods and/or services, buyer information indicative of
the buyers, and seller information indicative of the sellers; and
         a visual display device for displaying the transaction information;
         a storage device for storing the transaction information;
         a communications device for communicating the transaction information to a
first server for maintaining a database of the product information, buyer information
and seller information, the first server: being selectively responsive to changes in one
or more of the product, buyer or seller information for generating order information
relating buyers to specific goods and/or services that have been purchased; and
tracking the purchases to allow the payment of commissions to the corresponding
sellers of the specific goods and/or services.
[0035]        According to a tenth aspect of the invention there is provided a system for
    providing resources for a multi-step program, the system including:
         a plurality of remote provider terminals each located at one of a plurality of
program outlets and configured to allow a user to select a multi-step program from a
list of multi-step programs;
         a supplier server in communication with remote provider terminals performing
the steps of:
                    i.      receiving program information indicative of the selected multi
                       step program and a user identifier;
                   ii.      generating order information based on the selected program,
                       wherein the order information is representative of the resources
                       required for the next step in the multi-step program and a selected
                       program outlet at which the next step is to be performed;
                  iii.      scheduling delivery of the resources required for the next step
                       in the multi-step program to the selected program output; and

                                               - 11
                iv.     repeating steps ii and iii until all of the steps of the multi-step
                    program are completed;
        wherein the supplier server is selectively responsive to changes in program
information for generating order information.
[0036]       In an embodiment, the terminals are respective desktop computers.
   However, in other embodiments, the terminals are selected from one or more of the
   following: laptop computers; PDA's; cellular telephones; LEO reception devices;
   WAP devices; and the like.
[00371      Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description
   and the claims, the words 'comprise', 'comprising', 'include', 'including', and the
   like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or
   exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not limited to".
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0038]       Preferred embodiments of the invention are described herein by way of
   example only, and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying
   drawings in which like references indicate similar elements. It should be noted that
   references to "an" or "one" embodiment in this disclosure are not necessarily to the
   same embodiment, and such references mean at least one.
[00391       Embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the
   accompanying drawings in which:
        Figure 1 illustrates a computer networked environment for implementing a
        system and method for delivering a program to a customer according the
        invention; and
        Figure 2 is an instance of a webpage for a social networking site interacting
        with the system and method of Figure 1.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0040]       For convenience, in this detailed description reference to the terms

                                                - 12
   "good", "goods", "service", "services", "product" and "products" should be taken
   as reference to the "good and/or service" and "goods and/or services", as the case
   may be, except where the context clearly indicates otherwise. Additionally, as used
   in this specification, including the claims, the term "buyer" includes within its
   scope a potential buyer.
[0041]        Referring to Figure 1 there is illustrated a computer networked
   environment for implementing a system for delivering a multi-step program - in
   the form of a time spaced series of skin care treatments - to a customer (not
   shown). The system is generally indicated by the reference numeral 1 and includes
   a supplier server 2 for maintaining a database 3 that contains program information
   indicative of the program, customer information indicative of the customer, and
   outlet information indicative of the outlet. A remote provider terminal 4 is located
   at a program outlet 5 where the customer attends for delivery of the treatments, the
   terminal being linked to server 2 for selectively accessing the information to
   facilitate delivery to the customer of the next treatment in the multi-step program.
[0042]        It will be appreciated that while only a single outlet 5 is illustrated, system
   1 is adapted for interacting with a large number of like outlets for facilitating a
   widespread delivery of the treatments to many customers. Accordingly, where
   reference is made to outlet 5 it is intended to be a reference to all the outlets unless
   the context indicates otherwise.
[0043]        While typically each customer will only be undertaking one program at
   any given time, and attending a single outlet for the delivery of that treatment,
   system 1 accommodates a customer undertaking more than one program
   simultaneously, whether at one or more of the outlets. That is, a customer is able to
   undertake a program where the individual treatments are not all delivered by the
   same outlet. For example, if a customer commences a program at a given outlet
   and, during that program, he or she moves location and can no longer conveniently
   attend that same outlet, system 1 allows that customer to continue with the program
   at another outlet. That is, customers are able to enjoy continuity of the programs,
   and to choose which of the outlets are most convenient at the time of each
   treatment in the program.

                                                - 13
[00441       Server 2 and database 3 are located at a processing site 7 that, in this
   embodiment, is remote from outlet 5 and the other outlets. However, in another
   embodiment, site 7 is adjacent to or near one of the outlets, while in a further
   embodiment, site 7 is also an outlet.
[0045]       In this embodiment, system 1 is administered and operated by an
   administrator (not shown) who is primarily responsible for setting up and operating
   the hardware and software combination located at site 7. As will be appreciated
   from the disclosure herein, that the hardware and software is primarily used to
   allow selective access to the customer and program information by customers and
   members of staff at the outlets. Another important feature is for the regular and
   accurate updating and modification of the information to provide an accurate and
   current record of events and progress of the programs, as well as being a planning
   tool for the delivery of products to the outlets.
[0046]       The hardware used at site 7 is designed for operation 24 hours a day, 7
   days a week, and at a minimum of 99% availability. Where possible use is made of
   high reliability and fault tolerant hardware and software combinations, as well as
   best practice design and redundancy. Typically, this comprises at least 100%, and
   more likely 200%, redundancy.
[00471       The primary functionality of server 2 is to allow selective access to
   database 3 by customers and staff members and to ensure that the information
   stored is accurate.
[0048]       Database 3 is a relational database and is maintained on a storage device
   in the form of a RAID configured hard drive. In other embodiments, alternative
   storage devices are used.
[0049]       Also located at site 7 is a web server 8 for facilitating remote external
   interaction with server 2 and database 3. While some pages are delivered in HTML
   or other web based programming, other information is delivered in compressed
   data files be that text, video, audio or a combination of these.
[0050]       Terminal 4 includes a set-top box 11 that contains a fully functioning

                                              - 14
   desktop computer. In this embodiment, box 11 has dimensions of about 120 mm x
   50 mm x 120 mm and contains a 1 GHz PentiumTM processor, 256 M RAM, a 20
   Gigabyte hard drive, a 32 M video card, a USB port, and an infrared transmitter. In
   other embodiments, alternative specifications are used.
[0051]       Box 11 is connected, via the video card, to a 15" flat screen display 12 that
   is driven to display a predetermined image and/or sequences of images that are
   superimposed upon a background 14 of the display. This background is referred to
   as "wallpaper" or the "desktop" and represents the visual base plane or base space
   for the display, as provided by box 11. In this embodiment, not only are the images
   that are superimposed upon background 14 changed, but so too is the visual form
   of that background.
[0052]       An input device, in the form of an infrared mouse 13, allows a customer or
   staff member to move a cursor about the bounds of background 14 and any image
   that is superimposed upon that background. As the mouse is manually translated
   across an underlying support surface, it provides a proportional or corresponding
   positional signal to box 11 via the infrared transmitter. This signal is processed by
   box 11 to correspondingly progress a cursor (not shown) about background 14.
   When the cursor has been positioned as desired - that is, superimposed above a
   desired icon, hypertext link, other link, button, or command feature - the user of
   the mouse presses one of the two buttons 15 and 16 on mouse 13. This has the
   effect of activating the link, command or button. Notwithstanding that mouse 13
   has more than one actuator - that is, it has two buttons - the effect of using any one
   or more of these is the same.        In other embodiments where the input device
   includes more than two actuators, the same effect applies.
[0053]       As described above, the customer and staff member being able to
   selectively access the information on database 3 via terminal 4. In addition, the
   customer is also able to selectively access database 3 from a home site 20 via a
   web-enabled device, such as a desktop computer 21 that is connected to the internet
   22 via a modem 23. In other embodiments, the web-enabled device is a cellular
   telephone, a PDA, a laptop or the like. Moreover, that access need not occur from
   site 20, but could occur from any location that provides access to the required

                                               - 15
   network.     While in this embodiment the network is the internet, in other
   embodiments, the network is a WAN, a LAN, a LEO uplink, a public
   telecommunications     network, a private landline, a wireless network or a
   combination of these.
[0054]       Also represented in Figure 1 is a warehouse site 31 where the products
   (not shown) are stored and, in some embodiments, manufactured. In addition to
   those products, site 31 includes a database server 32 and a database 33 for storing
   and managing supply information that is indicative of the quantity of product
   required, the party requiring the product, the delivery requirements for that product,
   and the timing of the required delivery.        This information is derived from the
   information stored in database 3.
[0055]       Server 32 is linked to database 3 via intemet 22 and web server 34 for
   allowing exchange of information between database 3 and database 33 in response
   to the requirement for the supply of product, and the actual supply of that product.
[0056]       In this embodiment, the administrator also operates warehouse site 31.
   However, in other embodiments, separate parties operate sites 7 and 31.
[00571       Outlet 5 is, in this embodiment, an independently owned professional
   services outlet for providing skin care to its customers. That is, system 1 provides
   a link for a plurality of such outlets, in that the programs - in this case, skin care
   programs - that have been centrally developed and stored as the program
   information on database 3, are available for use by all the outlets without them
   having to outlay the capital to independently develop those programs.           While
   database 3 includes customer information for each of the customers, access to that
   information for staff members of an outlet is limited to only the customers who are
   actively involved in a program that is running or which is set to run at that outlet.
   Moreover, it is only selected information about the customer, and of which the
   customer authorises, which is provided to the outlet.
[00581       An example of the process of participating in a skin care program
   includes:
            1. A customer attending an outlet for an ad hoc or periodic treatment.

                                                - 16
            2. The customer being shown via display 12 a promotional video or other
                presentation that is derived from the program information as stored in
                box 11 or database 3.
            3.  The customer registering with system 1 via terminal 4, in that a unique
                user identifier is assigned to that customer, and a password chosen by
                them.
            4. The customer agreeing to enter into a desired one of the available
                programs.
            5. Scheduling for the first or next step in the program.
            6. Attending the first step or next step in the program.
            7. Repeating the above steps 5 and 6 until all the steps in the program are
                completed.
            8.  Returning to step 1 or 2 above.
        While the customer and the staff member at the outlet interact with terminal 4,
that terminal communicates with server 2 via the intemet 22.
[0059]       Once the customer has been allocated an identifier and provided a
   password, the customer information is updated accordingly. Once the customer has
   selected the desired program, the program information is updated accordingly.
   Server 2 is responsive to these changes for providing order information to
   server 32. This order information is indicative of the type and quantity of skin
   treatment product or products that need to be delivered to the outlet for the
   completion of the next step in the program. It is also indicative of the scheduling
   of the next step so that that product or products will be timely delivered to outlet 5.
   If the next step in the program also has an intermediate treatment step that is
   completed by the customer away from outlet 5, the order information is indicative
   of the product or products, and the timing of the delivery of those products to the
   customer site 20. For example, one skin treatment requires the customer to apply
   to the skin daily a particular cream for the five days prior to the next step in the
   program. The order information will indicate accordingly, and server 32 will be
   responsive to that information for scheduling the delivery of the relevant products
   to the customer at site 20 prior to the required time for application, and the other
   products to outlet 5 prior to the scheduled next step.

                                                - 17
[00601       In some embodiments, the ordering of products through server 2 occurs
   without direct input from members of staff at the outlet 5. This is possible by
   server 2 selectively performing a data 'pull' operation at predetermined times to
   extract program, customer and product information from box 11. From this
   information, the required products to be ordered for that outlet can be calculated
   and the ordering process commenced. In an alternative embodiment, box 11 is
   programmed to selectively perform a data 'push' operation to send program,
   customer and product information from box 11 to server 2 at predetermined times.
[0061]       In this manner, the outlet 5 need not hold any stock of the products, and
   hence minimise inventories and hence reduce overheads. Some outlets choose to
   hold minimal stock such as for display or promotional purposes. However, as
   terminal 4 provides promotional material, this also alleviates the need to hold such
   stock.
[0062]       In this embodiment, terminal 4 is self contained and is owned and supplied
   to the outlets by the administrator. Accordingly, the need for the outlet to outlay
   capital on such equipment is avoided.
[0063]       The storage device within terminal 4 is updated with new program
   information, or additional program information by downloading this from database
   3. However, as typically the link between terminal 4 and the internet is a low
   bandwidth telephone line, the downloading is segmented and/or done in non-peak
   times such as after business hours. In other embodiments, a representative of the
   administrators provides a memory stick of other memory device that interacts with
   the USB port in terminal 4 for transferring the data to the storage device. In other
   embodiments, terminals 4 include a disk drive, and the relevant disk is sent by
   mail, courier, or hand, to the outlets for loading onto the respective storage means.
[0064]       At site 7 there is also located a telecommunications server 41 for
   interfacing with the public telephone system 42.          Server 41 is responsive to
   scheduling information contained within the program information for generating
   and sending reminders to the customers and outlets of approaching events such as
   the imminent timing of a next step in a program for a particular customer. In this

                                                 - 18
   embodiment, server 41 generates reminders in the form of SMS text messages that
   are sent to the cellular telephone numbers contained within the relevant fields of
   the customer information and the outlet information contained in database 3. For
   example, a reminder is sent to the customer 24 hours prior to a next step in a
   program. The message being "Hi. Just a quick note. Your appointment with
   [name of outlet, as personalized by the outlet] is tomorrow at [time]. Look forward
   to seeing you then."     It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, from the
   teaching herein, that other reminders at other times and with different text are
   possible. It will also be appreciated by those skilled addressees, that reminders
   other than SMS text messages are possible. Examples of such other messages
   include a voice mail message, a voice message, an email, a fax, or other such
   messages.
[00651       In this embodiment, database 3 includes a field that stores the customer's
   nominated preferences for reminders, including the timing, frequency, content and
   delivery form. In other embodiments, database 3 includes another similar field for
   the outlets.
[00661       The above described embodiment of the invention allows a plurality of
   small and independent service providers - that is, the outlets - to make use of a
   centralised system 1 to gain access to a number of pre-developed programs that
   would be beyond the ability of each individual organisation to independently and
   financially sustainably develop and implement. Additionally, the service providers
   do not share data about their customers with other outlets making use of system 1.
   That is, the outlets retain their traditional advantages of local presence, but gain the
   advantages of centralised development of treatment programs and distribution of
   products, including the reduced requirement to hold inventory. Another advantage
   to the outlets is that they are actively increasing their chances of repeat or ongoing
   business by offering the customer a continuing program that relieves that customer
   from having to make a continuous sequence of choices. In the event that the
   customer does wish to take a more active role, he or she is able to interact with
   terminal 4 to gain additional information about the available choices and the
   relative merits of each.

                                               - 19
[00671       The administrator, through use of system 1, gains a wider marketing arm
   for the products and services and the ability to market other of the outlets' services
   to customers via terminals 4.
[00681       It will be appreciated that the outlets are paid a commission for the
   products that are sold either through the outlet or to the customer who is
   undertaking a program through the outlet.        That is, the outlet is only seeing a
   positive cash benefit, and does not have to outlay any significant capital over and
   above what would have to be outlaid to provide the professional expertise that is
   being provided to the customer.
[00691       The program      information   contained in     database  3   also included
   educational programs that are primarily directed toward staff members at the
   outlets, although it is also available for viewing by those customers who desire to
   do so. These educational programs are delivered via terminal 4 or computer 21,
   whichever is most convenient for each staff member.
[00701       The educational programs include information about the products, the
   application of the products, and associated warnings, benefits and helpful hints.
   This allows the staff at the outlets to gain an ongoing and updated education in the
   products and their best method of use to ensure that customers are provided with
   the best available advice and assistance.
[00711       In this embodiment, each staff member is also allocated a unique identifier
   and sets a password. The outlet information is updated in accordance with this
   information, and to indicate which of the education programs have been completed
   by the staff members. For some educational programs delivered by system 1, there
   are tests set for the staff members, typically in the form of multiple-choice
   questions.     As the educational programs and tests are completed, the outlet
   information is updated.     There is also scheduling information contained within
   database 3 that is processed by server 2 for providing reminders to staff members
   either to undertake additional training or tests, or alerting them to the fact that
   additional training is now available.
[0072]       This educational functionality allows the small outlets to gain the benefits

                                               -20
   of training that would be otherwise difficult and expensive to acquire.          It also
   allows the administrator to accurately target those staff members who require
   training.
[0073]       In this embodiment, system 1 also allows for the customer, should they
   wish to do so, to order product without having to attend one of the outlets. Each
   outlet is provided with a web page or pages that are stored on database 3 and which
   are delivered to the customer by server 8. These web pages are hosted by the
   administrator and provided in a standardised form that is able to be tailored by the
   outlet. Each hosted web page provides the customer with the ability to purchase
   products and to have them delivered to site 20 or elsewhere. As the customer is
   purchasing via the site of a particular outlet, it is relatively easy to track that sale,
   and pay that outlet the commission for the sale. This allows the customer access to
   products that have traditionally only been available though personally attending the
   outlet. It also allows the manufacturer of the products to gain sales that would have
   been unlikely to have otherwise occurred. It also has the added benefit in this
   embodiment that the owner of the distribution chain is also the manufacturer of the
   products. That is, on-selling of the products by a customer is not economically
   viable, as the only source of those products is through system 1.
[0074]       The embodiments of the invention are also applicable to outlets of other
   multi-step programs are delivered. For example, automotive servicing, medical
   and rehabilitation programs, fitness programs, education and training programs,
   and the like. All such services are traditionally delivered by a vast number of
   relatively small organizations that typically have a strong local presence and loyal
   locally based customers who trust the outlet to deliver a service that is also in the
   customer's interest.     In providing these types of services, there is a need for
   products, and system 1 allows these to be scheduled for delivery to the customers
   or the outlets, as and only when required. Importantly, there is also a need for
   education of the staff members at the outlets, and system 1 provides a systematic
   and rigorous educational regime for achieving this.
[00751       System 1 creates a local market presence for products while also
   increasing the outlets' ability to retain the customers. Hitherto, it is only through

                                               -21
   large and expensive advertising campaigns that such market penetration was
   possible, which limited such endeavours to the larger manufacturers and retailers.
[0076]       As the identity of the customer, staff member or outlet is known once that
   party has logged onto system 1 via terminal 4 or computer 21, it is possible to fine
   cast - as opposed to broadcast - information to those parties. This again makes use
   of the greater trust that is typically found in a relationship between a smaller local
   establishment and its customers over that relationship between a large organization
   and its customers. In this embodiment, database 3 includes fields for the customer
   and/or the outlet to nominate preferences that are able to be used when formulating
   fine-cast messages. For example, if an outlet knows that a particular customer has
   a dislike for a specific program or treatment, database 3 is updated accordingly to
   ensure that that customer is not informed of products or programs of this type.
[00771       System 1 is also applicable to the sale of goods and/or services other than
   those associated with multi-step programs. Take, by way of example, an outlet in
   the form of an independent local butcher who has a terminal 4 located at the outlet.
   The administrator is able to alert the butcher, via SMS text message or via terminal
   4, of any upcoming supplies of meat that may be of particular interest based upon
   prior orders made. If the butcher is aware of one or more customer with a known
   preference for such meat, and those customers are registered with system 1, the
   butcher is able to alert those customers only, without having to broadcast the
   message to all customers, some of whom will have a dislike to that meat. The
   messaging in this embodiment is via SMS text messaging, although other
   messaging systems are used in other embodiments.             The alerted customer or
   customers are then in a position to respond, if so desired.        In the embodiment
   described, the response is by a return SMS text message that is sent to database 3
   via server 41. However, in other embodiments, the customer responds through use
   of computer 21 or the like.       If orders for the meat are received, database 3 is
   updated accordingly, and the meat dispatched, at the appropriate time, to either the
   outlet or the delivery address of the customer.           As in the earlier described
   embodiment, even though the meat - or other product in other embodiments - does
   not necessarily have to get delivered to the butcher, that butcher receives a
   commission for initiating the sale.      In an alternative embodiment, the customer

                                               - 22
   information contained on database 3 is used to allow automatic fine-casting to the
   customers about the existence of the meat. However, that message is still sent on
   behalf of the butcher, and a commission paid to that butcher should an order result.
[00781       As terminals 4 are provided by, and the ownership retained by, the
   administrator, use is also made of the background plane of the terminals as a means
   for conveying information or displaying images. This information or images are
   delivered to the terminals via the internet, or alternatively, are stored on the storage
   device within terminal 4. As will be understood from the above description, there
   are instances where the customers, the staff members or the outlets wish to
   communicate with server 2 or access database 3 via a channel other than a
   terminal 4. When using these channels, the relevant person is able to permit the
   fine-cast to occur through that channel.       So, for example, if a customer who is
   using computer 21 desires to access database 3 and/or the fine-cast information via
   that computer, the customer provides the administrator with the authority to do so.
   That is, the customer is able to gain access to advice and information that has been
   filtered from a trusted source - the local outlet. It is also possible for the customer
   to order products and/or services from outlets using system 1, to gain scheduling
   information for the delivery of the ordered products, to gain information about
   upcoming offers that have been filtered to those that are believe to be of interest to
   that customer.
[00791       Terminal 4 is responsive to, amongst other things, the identity of the party
   using the terminal for setting the information and/or images contained within the
   background plane. That is, the information and/or images are also part of a fine
   cast system that allows the user to tailor the terminal for their needs. It also allows
   the administrator to reduce the risk of exposing the user to unwanted and needless
   information.
[00801       In one embodiment, the background plane of the terminal is used to
   provide the user with advertising. However, in other embodiments, the background
   plane is used to provide the user with scheduling information indicative of
   upcoming events that are being policed on system 1. For a computer working with
   a WindowsTM based GUI, such as terminal 4, the background plane is the desktop.

                                                  -23
   The image portrayed by this desktop is updated and/or changed in response to,
   amongst other things, the customer information, the outlet information, and the
   product information. That is, individual users will have an individual background
   plane.
[00811       The use of this fine-cast functionality with the background plane is carried
   out, in this embodiment, in accordance with a schedule that is derived from the
   information stored in database 3.        However, in other embodiments, a schedule is
   not used or, if it is, it is derived from other than the information on database 3.
[0082]       By using the background plane of terminal 4 or other electronic device,
   the preferred embodiments convert a passive or idle space into an active space.
[00831       In some embodiments, when terminal 4 is powered, but no user is logged
   in, display 12 is driven to present a series of images. These images are derived
   from a schedule of images that are contained within the storage device within
   terminal 4.    The schedule itself is selected based upon the outlet in which the
   terminal is disposed. That is, even when there is no specific user logged onto the
   terminal, it is still able to provide a tailored effect for the outlet.
[0084]       The background plane is that base image that is presented by a display for
   a computer or other device and upon which the other images are superimposed or
   overlaid.   It is also referred to as the base plane or the underlying face of the
   device, home position or resting place between software applications.              While
   reference has been made to the background plane of a computer, it will also be
   appreciated that such a plane is included in most electronic devices, be they pager,
   a PDA, a LEO interface, cellular telephones, pagers, television screens, and the
   like.
[00851       In the foregoing specification, some exemplified preferred embodiments
   of the invention have been described. It will be evident to the skilled addressee,
   from the teaching herein, that various modifications and changes can be made
   without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention.               The
   specification and drawings are, accordingly, to be regarded in an illustrative rather
   than a restrictive sense.

                                               - 24
[00861       In one embodiment, there is provided a system and method for facilitating
   a recommendation scheme whereby customers, staff members of each outlet and
   the general public are able to recommend products to other customers and potential
   customers.    In return, rewards such as discounts are able to be offered based on
   certain criteria. Examples of such criteria include the number of recommendations
   made by a customer, staff member or member of the public to others, the form of
   the recommendation, the forum in which the recommendation is made, the
   purchases linked to the making of the recommendation or others.
[00871       In one embodiment, the method is carried out by providing a software
   application - for example, an installer application - on the administrator's website,
   which is freely available for access or download by customers, staff members and
   the general public.    Preferably the installer application is able to be downloaded
   through the activation of a hypertext link, image link, other link, button or
   command feature.      In this specific embodiment, the customer, staff member or
   member of the general public utilizing this software application is referred to as the
   "host".
[00881       Once accessed or downloaded, the installer application allows the host, as
   illustrated  in Figure 2,     to add, embed or install an associated software
   application 43 into the host's personal web page 44 on a social networking website
   45 available on the intemet or other network. Such social networking websites
   include, but are not limited to, FacebookTM, MySpaceTM, BeboTM and TwitterTM. In
   some embodiments the software application is positioned on the personal web
   page 44 adjacent other user-selected applications 46 and personal information 47.
[0089]       In other embodiments, the software application is also compatible with
   other web-based applications such as MSN Messenger. In some embodiments, the
   host is required to register certain details in the administrator's database server 32
   prior to adding the software application to its personal web page.
[0090]       The software application preferably includes an image link, hypertext link,
   other link, button or command feature which friends - real or virtual - of the host
   or any other people viewing the host's personal web page are able to access. In

                                               - 25
   this embodiment, the friend or other person accessing the software application from
   the host's personal web page is referred to as the "user".
[0091]       In a particularly preferred embodiment, the software application includes
   an image link 48 which displays a recommendation for a certain product and/or
   brands of product. When the link is accessed by a user, it links the user's web
   browser to the administrator's website where the certain product and/or brands of
   products are available for sale.      Moreover, the website includes details of, or
   additional links to, one or more outlets selling these products.
[0092]       The software application also provides feedback information on each
   recommendation to the administrator and/or selected outlets. This information, in
   this embodiment, includes details indicative of at least the host, products or brands
   of product recommended, and the user. This information is subsequently used to
   reward the host by, for example, providing a discount to that host on the next
   product purchase made by the host.
[00931       Unless specifically stated otherwise, as apparent from the following
   discussions, it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing
   terms such as "processing," "computing," "calculating," "determining", analyzing"
   or the like, refer to the action and/or processes of a computer or computing system,
   or similar electronic computing device, that manipulate and/or transform data
   represented as physical, such as electronic, quantities into other data similarly
   represented as physical quantities.
[0094]       In a similar manner, the term "processor" may refer to any device or
   portion of a device that processes electronic data, e.g., from registers and/or
   memory to transform that electronic data into other electronic data that, e.g., may
   be stored in registers and/or memory. A "computer" or a "computing machine" or
   a "computing platform" may include one or more processors.
[0095]       The methodologies described herein are, in one embodiment, performable
   by one or more processors that accept computer-readable (also called machine
   readable) code containing a set of instructions that when executed by one or more
   of the processors carry out at least one of the methods described herein.         Any

                                             - 26
   processor capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that
   specify actions to be taken are included. Thus, one example is a typical processing
   system that includes one or more processors. Each processor may include one or
   more of a CPU, a graphics processing unit, and a programmable DSP unit. The
   processing system further may include a memory subsystem including main RAM
   and/or a static RAM, and/or ROM.          A bus subsystem may be included for
   communicating between the components. The processing system further may be a
   distributed processing system with processors coupled by a network.           If the
   processing system requires a display, such a display may be included, e.g., a liquid
   crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT) display. If manual data entry is
   required, the processing system also includes an input device such as one or more
   of an alphanumeric input unit such as a keyboard, a pointing control device such as
   a mouse, and so forth. The term memory unit as used herein, if clear from the
   context and unless explicitly stated otherwise, also encompasses a storage system
   such as a disk drive unit.     The processing system in some configurations may
   include a sound output device, and a network interface device.         The memory
   subsystem thus includes a computer-readable carrier medium that carries computer
   readable code (e.g., software) including a set of instructions to cause performing,
   when executed by one or more processors, one of more of the methods described
   herein. Note that when the method includes several elements, e.g., several steps,
   no ordering of such elements is implied, unless specifically stated. The software
   may reside in the hard disk, or may also reside, completely or at least partially,
   within the RAM and/or within the processor during execution thereof by the
   computer system. Thus, the memory and the processor also constitute computer
   readable carrier medium carrying computer-readable code.
[0096]       Furthermore, a computer-readable     carrier medium may form, or be
   included in a computer program product.
[00971       In alternative embodiments, the one or more processors operate as a
   standalone device or may be connected, e.g., networked to other processor(s), in a
   networked deployment, the one or more processors may operate in the capacity of a
   server or a user machine in server-user network environment, or as a peer machine
   in a peer-to-peer or distributed network environment. The one or more processors

                                              - 27
   may form a personal computer (PC), a tablet PC, a set-top box (STB), a Personal
   Digital Assistant (PDA), a cellular telephone, a web appliance, a network router,
   switch or bridge, or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions
   (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by that machine.
[0098]      Note that while some diagrams only show a single processor and a single
   memory that carries the computer-readable code, those in the art will understand
   that many of the components described above are included, but not explicitly
   shown or described in order not to obscure the inventive aspect.        For example,
   while only a single machine is illustrated, the term "machine" shall also be taken to
   include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set (or
   multiple sets) of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies
   discussed herein.
[0099]      Thus, one embodiment of each of the methods described herein is in the
   form of a computer-readable carrier medium carrying a set of instructions, e.g., a
   computer program that is for execution on one or more processors, e.g., one or
   more processors that are part of web server arrangement.            Thus, as will be
   appreciated by those skilled in the art, embodiments of the present invention may
   be embodied as a method, an apparatus such as a special purpose apparatus, an
   apparatus such as a data processing system, or a computer-readable carrier
   medium, e.g., a computer program product.             The computer-readable carrier
   medium carries computer readable code including a set of instructions that when
   executed on one or more processors cause the processor or processors to implement
   a method. Accordingly, aspects of the present invention may take the form of a
   method, an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment or an
   embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore, the present
   invention may take the form of carrier medium (e.g., a computer program product
   on a computer-readable storage medium) carrying computer-readable program code
   embodied in the medium.
[00100]     The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via a
   network interface device.    While the carrier medium is shown in an exemplary
   embodiment to be a single medium, the term "carrier medium" should be taken to

                                               -28
   include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed
   database, and/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or more sets of
   instructions. The term "carrier medium" shall also be taken to include any medium
   that is capable of storing, encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by
   one or more of the processors and that cause the one or more processors to perform
   any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. A carrier medium
   may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile
   media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical,
   magnetic disks, and magneto-optical disks.         Volatile media includes dynamic
   memory, such as main memory.           Transmission media includes coaxial cables,
   copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a bus subsystem.
   Transmission media also may also take the form of acoustic or light waves, such as
   those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.                 For
   example, the term "carrier medium" shall accordingly be taken to included, but not
   be limited to, solid-state memories, a computer product embodied in optical and
   magnetic media; a medium bearing a propagated signal detectable by at least one
   processor of one or more processors and representing a set of instructions that,
   when executed, implement a method; a carrier wave bearing a propagated signal
   detectable by at least one processor of the one or more processors and representing
   the set of instructions a propagated signal and representing the set of instructions;
   and a transmission medium in a network bearing a propagated signal detectable by
   at least one processor of the one or more processors and representing the set of
   instructions.
[00101]      It will be understood that the steps of methods discussed are performed in
   one embodiment by an appropriate processor (or processors) of a processing (i.e.,
   computer) system executing instructions (computer-readable            code) stored in
   storage. It will also be understood that the invention is not limited to any particular
   implementation or programming          technique and that the invention may be
   implemented using any appropriate techniques for implementing the functionality
   described herein.     The invention is not limited to any particular programming
   language or operating system.
[00102]      Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an

                                               - 29
   embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described
   in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the
   present invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an
   embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
   referring to the same embodiment, but may. Furthermore, the particular features,
   structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be
   apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure, in one or more
   embodiments.
[00103]      Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of
   exemplary embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are
   sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment, FIG., or description thereof
   for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of
   one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure, however,
   is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires
   more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following
   claims reflect, inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing
   disclosed embodiment.       Thus, the claims following the Detailed Description are
   hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description, with each claim
   standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this invention.
[00104]      Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but
   not other features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of
   different embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form
   different embodiments, as would be understood by those skilled in the art. For
   example, in the following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in
   any combination.
[00105]      Furthermore, some of the embodiments are described herein as a method
   or combination of elements of a method that can be implemented by a processor of
   a computer system or by other means of carrying out the function.              Thus, a
   processor with the necessary instructions for carrying out such a method or element
   of a method forms a means for carrying out the method or element of a method.
   Furthermore, an element described herein of an apparatus embodiment is an

                                             - 30
   example of a means for carrying out the function performed by the element for the
   purpose of carrying out the invention.
[00106]     In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth.
   However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced
   without these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods, structures
   and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an
   understanding of this description.
[00107]     Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred
   embodiments of the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and
   further modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the
   invention, and it is intended to claim all such changes and modifications as fall
   within the scope of the invention.     For example, any formulas given above are
   merely representative of procedures that may be used. Functionality may be added
   or deleted from the block diagrams and operations may be interchanged among
   functional blocks. Steps may be added or deleted to methods described within the
   scope of the present invention.

                                               -31
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A system for interfacing buyers and sellers of goods and/or services, the
system including:
        a first server for maintaining a database containing product information
indicative of the goods and/or services, buyer information indicative of the buyers,
and seller information indicative of the sellers, the first server: being selectively
responsive to changes in one or more of the product, buyer or seller information for
generating order information relating buyers to specific goods and/or services that
have been purchased; and tracking the purchases to allow the payment of commissions
to the corresponding sellers of the specific goods and/or services; and
        a plurality of remote terminals being disposed at locations where the sellers
offer for sale the goods and/or services, the terminals being linked to the server for
selectively accessing the information to facilitate the purchase of the goods and/or
services by the buyers and being responsive to the purchase of the goods and/or
services by the buyer for selectively changing the information.
2.      A system according to claim 1 including a second server that is responsive to
the order information for scheduling the delivery of the specific goods and/or services.
3.      A method for interfacing buyers and sellers of goods and/or services, the
method including:
        maintaining on a first server a database containing product information
indicative of the goods and/or services, buyer information indicative of the buyers,
and seller information indicative of the sellers, the first server: being selectively
responsive to changes in one or more of the product, buyer or seller information for
generating order information relating buyers to specific goods and/or services that
have been purchased; and tracking the purchases to allow the payment of commissions
to the corresponding sellers of the specific goods and/or services; and
        disposing a plurality of remote terminals at locations where the sellers offer for
sale the goods and/or services, the terminals being linked to the server for selectively
accessing the information to facilitate the purchase of the goods and/or services by the
buyers and being responsive to the purchase of the goods and/or services by the buyer
for selectively changing the information.
4.      A system for delivering a multi-step program to a customer, the system

                                               - 32
including:
        a supplier server for maintaining a database containing program information
indicative of the program and customer information indicative of the customer, the
supplier server: being selectively responsive to changes in one or more of the program
or customer information for generating order information relating customers to
specific programs that have been purchased; and tracking the purchases to allow the
payment of commissions to corresponding sellers of the specific programs; and
        a remote provider terminal located at a program outlet where the customer
attends for delivery of the program, the terminal being linked to the server for
selectively accessing the information to facilitate delivery to the customer of the next
step in the multi-step program and being responsive to the purchase of the program by
the customer for selectively changing the information.
5.      A method for delivering a multi-step program to a customer, the method
including:
        maintaining with a supplier server a database containing program information
indicative of the program and customer information indicative of the customer, the
supplier server: being selectively responsive to changes in one or more of the program
or customer information for generating order information relating customers to
specific programs that have been purchased; and tracking the purchases to allow the
payment of commissions to corresponding sellers of the specific programs; and
        locating a remote provider terminal at a program outlet where the customer
attends for delivery of the program, the terminal being linked to the server for
selectively accessing the information to facilitate delivery to the customer of the next
step in the multi-step program and being responsive to the purchase of the program by
the customer for selectively changing the information.
6.      A system for interfacing buyers and sellers of goods and/or services, the
system including:
        a database containing product information indicative of the goods and/or
services, buyer information indicative of the buyers, and seller information indicative
of the sellers;
        a first server: being selectively responsive to changes in one or more of the
product, buyer or seller information for generating order information relating buyers

                                                - 33
to specific goods and/or services that have been purchased; and tracking the purchases
to allow the payment of commissions to the corresponding sellers of the specific
goods and/or services;
         a plurality of remote terminals being disposed at locations where the sellers
offer for sale the goods and/or services, each terminal being activated by one of the
buyers or sellers, and being responsive to the activation for linking the terminal to the
database for selectively accessing the information and facilitate the purchase of the
goods and/or services by the buyers and being responsive to the purchase of the goods
and/or services by the buyer for selectively changing the information; and
         a display having a background upon which are superimposed images for
viewing by one or more of the sellers and/or buyers, the background being varied in
accordance with one or more of the buyer information, the seller information, and the
product information.
7.       A method for interfacing buyers and sellers of goods and/or services, the
method including:
         providing a database containing product information indicative of the goods
and/or services, buyer information indicative of the buyers, and seller information
indicative of the sellers;
         providing a first server: being selectively responsive to changes in one or more
of the product, buyer or seller information for generating order information relating
buyers to specific goods and/or services that have been purchased; and tracking the
purchases to allow the payment of commissions to the corresponding sellers of the
specific goods and/or services;
         disposing a plurality of remote terminals at locations where the sellers offer for
sale the goods and/or services, each terminal being activated by one of the buyers or
sellers, and being responsive to the activation for linking the terminal to the database
for selectively accessing the information and facilitate the purchase of the goods
and/or services by the buyers and being responsive to the purchase of the goods and/or
services by the buyer for selectively changing the information; and
         providing a display having a background upon which are superimposed images
for viewing by one or more of the sellers and/or buyers, the background being varied
in accordance with one or more of the buyer information, the seller information, and
the product information.

                                                  - 34
8.       A remote terminal for an outlet where buyers attend to purchase goods and/or
services from a seller, the terminal including:
         an input device for inputting transaction information in relation to purchase of
goods and/or services from a buyer, the transaction information including product
information indicative of the goods and/or services, buyer information indicative of
the buyers, and seller information indicative of the sellers; and
         a visual display device for displaying the transaction information;
         a storage device for storing the transaction information;
         a communications device for communicating the transaction information to a
first server for maintaining a database of the product information, buyer information
and seller information, the first server: being selectively responsive to changes in one
or more of the product, buyer or seller information for generating order information
relating buyers to specific goods and/or services that have been purchased; and
tracking the purchases to allow the payment of commissions to the corresponding
sellers of the specific goods and/or services.
9.       A system for providing resources for a multi-step program, the system
including:
         a plurality of remote provider terminals each located at one of a plurality of
program outlets and configured to allow a user to select a multi-step program from a
list of multi-step programs;
         a supplier server in communication with remote provider terminals performing
the steps of:
                   i.      receiving program information indicative of the selected multi
                      step program and a user identifier;
                  ii.      generating order information based on the selected program,
                      wherein the order information is representative of the resources
                      required for the next step in the multi-step program and a selected
                      program outlet at which the next step is to be performed;
                 iii.      scheduling delivery of the resources required for the next step
                      in the multi-step program to the selected program output; and

                                              - 35
               iv.     repeating steps ii and iii until all of the steps of the multi-step
                   program are completed;
       wherein the supplier server is selectively responsive to changes in program
information for generating order information.

<removed-date>
                                                                      1/2
                         1
                                                                        42
                                                                                            PTSN
                               5                             4                                                         7
<removed-apn>
                                                                         41
               14                                                                                               3
                                          Display                11
              12
                                                                                      Telecoms Server          Database
                                        Mini-computer                                                                                2
                                                                             8
               15
                                                                                                             Supplier Server
              13                              16                                       Web Server
                      Mouse
                                   PRODUCTS
                                                                      Network
                                                                                            22
              31
                                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                        23                           21
              33
                                                                                 PRODUCTS
                                                                                                        Modem
                                                                                                                       Web Browser
                    Database
                                                                                 34
                                                     Web Server
                                                                        32
                                                    Database Server

<removed-date>
                                        2/2
                                               FIGURE 2
              45                                           44
<removed-apn>
                                    Personal information
                   47
                                                           43
                                                           48
                                                           46
                   47
                        Personal information
                                                           46
                                                           46

