                                           13
   ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        A rotatable screen includes: a bag body, extended with a display face; and
   a counterweight element, configured on an interlayer of the bag body, and
   extended with at least one support element extended with a support frame, the
 5 support frame configured with at least one shaft connecting portion and in
   connection with a display screen by engaging the at least one shaft connecting
   portion with at least one shaft connected portion configured on the display
   screen, each support element in connection with a hinge, and the at least one
   support element, support frame and display screen configured on the display
10 face.   Whereby, the present invention has a display screen and allows the
   display screen to be revolved on the shaft connecting portions to adjust a
   display direction thereof.

- .4     - ..
                (
                  CN)
     6 CD"
              0   CD

                                             I
   TITLE: CARRYING BAG WITH ROTATABLE SCREEN
     (a) Technical Field of the Invention
         The present invention relates to a carrying bag, and more particularly to a
   carrying bag having a rotatable screen.
 5 (b) Description of the Prior Art
         In smart mobile devices such as tablet computers or smart phones, taking
   tablet computers as an example, protecting covers derived therefrom, support
   items therefore, and the like are available in the market; the common
   protecting covers are used to protect the outer surfaces or screens of tablet
10 computers from scratch, or protecting covers allows a tablet computer to be
   fixed; a tablet computer is allowed to be stood in a specific angle with the
   folding function of the protective cover itself, which makes the tablet
   computer (display) fixed in a specific direction and a user can thus view
   content on the display conveniently. Therefore, conventional protective
15 covers have no capability of allowing a tablet computer (display) to be rotated
   conveniently and have a limited angle adjustment.
         In addition, the current smart mobile devices such as notebook computers,
   smart phones or tablets can similarly be collected or stored in a bag.   A
   conventional bag used for simple collection or storage of a smart mobile
20 device occupies much space when a user carries it out, and most bags only

                                          2
  have a simple collection or storage function.  For example, when a tablet and
  notebook are carried out at the same time, two carrying bags are needed,
  which occupies space and causes inconvenient carrying.
5

                                           3
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        One object of the present invention is to provide a carrying bag, having an
   item carrying function, configured with a rotatable display screen, occupying
   no space and being convenient in carrying and use.
 5      To achieve the object mentioned above, the present invention proposes a
   carrying bag with a rotatable screen, including: a bag body, extended with a
   display face; and a counterweight element, configured on an interlayer of the
   bag body, and extended with at least one support element extended with a
   support frame, the support frame configured with at least one shaft connecting
10 portion and in connection with a display screen by engaging the at least one
   shaft connecting portion with at least one shaft connected portion configured
   on the display screen, each support element in connection with a hinge, and
   the at least one support element, support frame and display screen configured
   on the display face.
15      According to the carrying bag mentioned above, the bag body is extended
   with a buckling member; the bag body is configured with an accommodation
   space; the display screen is configured with a signal output input module; the
   signal output input module is a wireless communication module or wired
   communication module.
20

                                           4
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        HG 1 is an exploded view of a preferred embodiment of a carrying bag
   with a rotatable screen according to the present invention;
        HG 2 is a perspective view of the embodiment of a carrying bag with a
 5 rotatable screen according to the present invention;
        HG 3 is a side view of the embodiment of a carrying bag according to the
   present invention in a use state;
        HG 4 is a perspective view of the embodiment of a carrying bag with a
   rotatable screen according to the present invention, where a display screen is
10 collected while not in use, and items are stored and collected in the bag;
        HG 5 is a perspective view of the embodiment of a carrying bag with a
   rotatable screen according to the present invention, showing the display
   direction of the display screen by means of rotation thereof;
        HG 6 is perspective view of the embodiment of a carrying bag with a
15 rotatable screen according to the present invention, where a notebook
   computer is stored, and the display screen of the bag body and a display screen
   of the notebook computer are allowed to generate double-screen synchronous
   display through a wired communication connection; and
        HG 7 is perspective view of the embodiment of a carrying bag with a
20 rotatable screen according to the present invention, where a notebook

                                          5
  computer is stored, and the display screen of the bag body and a display screen
  of the notebook computer are allowed to generate double-screen synchronous
  display through a wireless communication connection
5

                                           6
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
        Referring to FIGS. 1 and 2, a carrying bag with a rotatable screen of the
   present invention includes a bag body 1 and counterweight element 2.
        The bag body 1 is extended with a display face 10, which may be an extra
 5 device of the bag body 1 and has the same material such as cloth or plastics as
   the one of the bag body 1. In addition, the display face 10 may also be one
   part of the bag body formed by cutting.   Preferably, the display face 10 is
   formed an included angle with the bag body 1.
        The counterweight element 2 may be a plate body, which is an interlayer
10 configured inside the bag body 1, and the counterweight element 2 is extended
   with two support elements 21, which are extended with a support frame 22 in
   the same direction, where a shaft connecting portion 23 is respectively
   configured on the two symmetric ends of the support frame 22.       Furthermore,
   the support frame 22 is in connection with a display screen 3 by coupling the
15 two shaft connecting portions 23 to two respective shaft connected portions
   231 configured on the corresponding symmetry ends of the display screen 3;
   each support element 21 is connected with a hinge 4; the two support elements
   21, support frame 22 and display frame 3 are configured on the display face
    10. In a preferred embodiment, the support frame 22 is not necessarily a
20 closed setting, each support element 21 may be a long-strip shaped metal

                                              7
   element, and the display screen 3 may be an existing display screen for
   inputting or outputting video and audio signals.      Therefore, the bag body 1
   can have the display screen 3, and the display screen 3 may preferably be a
   tablet or touch screen.
 5       Referring to FIG 3, the figure only shows the carrying bag of the present
   invention in a use state under a certain condition, a certain structure and a
   related operation principle, and the present invention is not so limited. In the
   embodiment, a user can take the counterweight element 2 as a base to rotate
   the display face 10 together with the support element 21 and display screen 3
10 relatively to the bag body 1, thereby generating the display angle adjustment
   effect of the display screen 3, here, the friction force generated when the hinge
   4 itself is rotated allows the display screen 3 to be fixed at a specific angle,
   thereby allowing the present invention to have the display screen 3 to display
   and the display angle of the display screen 3 to be adjusted convenient in a
15 large range by rotation.     From the description mentioned above, it is clear
   that the bag body 1 and display face 10 allows the display screen 3 to display
   information content and the display angle thereof to be adjusted in a large
   range by rotation besides they can be used to protect the display screen 3 from
   collision and scrape, thereby generating a multi-functional effect.

                                            8
        Referring to FIGS. 1 and 2 again, the bag body 1 is extended with a
   buckling member 11, which may also be made of the same material such as
   cloth or plastics as the one of the bag body 1. Furthermore, the bag body 1 is
   configured with an accommodation space 13.
 5      Referring to FIG 4, the display face 10 is closed toward the bag body 1
   together with the two support elements 21 and display screen 3 by means of
   the rotation of the hinges 4, allowing the display screen 3 to be hid inside the
   bag body 1 and the display screen 3 is thus temporarily hid. In the
   embodiment, the display screen 3 can be revolved on the two shaft connecting
10 portions 23 through the configurations of the two shaft connecting portions 3
   and display screen 3, thereby allowing the display screen 3 to be rotated
   around the shaft connecting portions 23 to adjust a display direction besides
   the display thereof; in an ideal condition, the display screen 3 can be rotated
   360 degrees, and operated and used conveniently.
15      In addition, the accommodation space 13 of the present invention can be
   used to store items such as daily necessities, books, mobile devices when the
   carrying bag of the present invention is carried out.    In the embodiment, a
   notebook computer 100 is stored in the accommodation space 13 as FIG 4
   shows, thereby allowing the present invention to have a function of carrying
20 items, the bag body 1 to generate an extra item storing or collecting space, and

                                             9
   the present invention to become a carrying bag with a rotatable screen.
   Furthermore, the entire bag body 1 is convenient for carrying and occupies no
   space.    In addition, the present invention allows the display screen 3 to be
   opened or closed fast and conveniently.
 5      Next, referring to FIGS. 6 and 7, the display screen 3 is further configured
   with a signal output input module 30 adapted to receive and send image
   signals, thereby allowing the display screen 3 to display the image signals.
   More specifically, the signal output input module 30 may be a wired
   communication module 31 such as an electric connector such as USB Type C
10 connector, or the signal output input module 30 may also be a wireless
   communication module 33 such as a wireless communication module
   supporting a wireless image transmission technology such as Miracast,
   Airplay, WiDi or a standard wireless communication module, or a WiFi
   module or mmWave communication module.             Namely, the display screen 3
15 of the present invention may receive and display or send the image signals in a
   wired or wireless way. Even more, in a preferred embodiment, the display
   screen 3 of the present invention may also have the capability of supporting
   both wired and wireless image transmissions.
        From the description mentioned above, the display screen 3 of the bag
20 body 1 of the carrying bag with a rotatable screen of the present invention, as

                                          10
   FIG 6 shows, is in a signal connection with the notebook computer 100 in a
   wired transmission way through a transmission line 200 and two end
   connectors 201 thereof; one of the two end connectors 201 is in connection
   with the wired communication module 31, and another end connector 201 the
 5 notebook computer 100, allowing display content 32 of the display screen 3
   on the bag body 1 to be synchronously displayed with display content 300 on
   the notebook computer 100 so that a double-screen synchronous display effect
   (double-screen mode display) can be generated, thereby increasing the
   practicality and convenience of the present invention.  In the embodiment,
10 the transmission line 200 may be a transmission line for video and audio
   signal transmission such as Type-C transmission line or high definition
   multimedia interface (HDMI) transmission line.     In addition, there are the
   same functions and effects when the wired communication module 31 is
   replaced with the wireless communication module 33 as FIG 7 shows.
15

                                       11
   I CLAIM:
      1. A carrying bag with a rotatable screen, comprising:
         a bag body, extended with a display face; and
         a counterweight element, configured on an interlayer of said bag
 5       body, and extended with at least one support element extended with a
         support frame, said support frame configured with at least one shaft
         connecting portion and in connection with a display screen by
         engaging said at least one shaft connecting portion with at least one
         shaft connected portion configured on said display screen, each said
10       support element in connection with a hinge, and said at least one
         support element, support frame and display screen configured on said
         display face.
     2. The carrying bag according to claim 1, wherein said bag body is
         extended with a buckling member.
15   3. The carrying bag according to claim 1, wherein said bag body is
         configured with an accommodation space.
     4.  The carrying bag according to claim 1, wherein said display screen is
         configured with a signal output input module.

                                 12
5. The carrying bag according to claim 4, wherein said signal output
   input module is a wireless communication module or wired
   communication module.

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.1

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.2

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.3

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.4

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.5

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.6

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG.7

