1002234779
                                       ABSTRACT
  In some implementations, a computing device can be configured to automatically tum
  off notifications when generating a notification would cause a disturbance or be
  unwanted by a user. The device can be configured with quiet hours during which
  notifications that would otherwise be generated by the computing device can be
  suppressed. In some implementations, quiet hours can be configured as a time period
  with a start time and an end time. In some implementations, quiet hours can be
  derived from application data. For example, calendar data, alarm clock data, map
  data, etc. can be used to determine when quiet hours should be enforced. In some
  implementations, the device can be configured with exceptions to quiet hour
  notification suppression. In some implementations, the user can identify contacts to
  which the quiet hours notification suppression should not be applied.

1002234779
                     QUIET HOURS FOR NOTIFICATIONS
                 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
       [0001] This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application
  No. 61/656,935 filed June 7, 2012 and U.S. Patent Application No. 13/842,682 filed
  March 15, 2013, the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their
  entirety for all purposes.
       [0001A] Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is
PCT/US2013/043792 (published as WO 2013/184530), filed on 31 May 2013.
                                    TECHNICAL FIELD
       [0002] The disclosure generally relates to mechanisms for providing notifications
  on a computing device.
                                        BACKGROUND
       [0003] Computing devices often provide notifications for events that occur on or
  are detected by the computing device. For example, a computing device that has
  telephony capability can provide a ringer notification that informs the user of an
  incoming telephone call. A scheduled meeting on a calendar application can trigger a
  notification reminding the user of a meeting. An incoming text message or email can
  trigger a notification that notifies the user of the new message or email. These
  notifications can be presented to the user by sound, movement (e.g., vibration) and/or
  light (e.g., a graphical notification on an illuminated display).
       [0004] Sometimes these notifications occur when a user does not wish to be
  disturbed. For example, a telephone call notification (e.g., a ringer, a graphical
  notification, or vibration) during a meeting can be disruptive to the participants of the
  meeting. A text message or email notification while the user is sleeping can impede
  restful sleep. Common approaches for avoiding these types of disruptions are to
  allow the user to manually turn off the ringer and/or sound of the computing device or
  to turn off the computing device itself. However, these approaches require that the
                                                -1-

1002234779
  user remember to manually turn on or off the ringer or device when the user does not
  want to be disturbed.
                                        SUMMARY
       [0005] In some implementations, a computing device can be configured to
  automatically turn off notifications when generating a notification would cause a
  disturbance or may be unwanted by a user. The device can be configured with quiet
  hours during which notifications that would otherwise be generated by the computing
  device can be suppressed. In some implementations, quiet hours can be configured as
  a time period with a start time and an end time. In some implementations, quiet hours
  can be derived from application data. For example, calendar data, alarm clock data,
  map data, sensor data, etc. can be used to determine when quiet hours should be
  enforced. In some implementations, the device can be configured with exceptions to
  quiet hour notification suppression. For example, the user can identify contacts to
  which quiet hours notification suppression should not be applied.
       [0006] Particular implementations provide at least the following
  advantages: Notifications on a computing device can be automatically suppressed
  reducing the number of unwanted disturbances experienced by a user of the
  computing device. According to some implementations, the user does not have to
  remember to turn on or off notifications.
       [0007] Details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying
  drawings and the description below. Other features, aspects, and potential advantages
  will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.
                             DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
       [0008] FIGS. 1A and lB illustrate example graphical user interface for
  configuring quiet hours on a computing device.
       [0009] FIGS. 2A and 2B illustrate example graphical user interfaces for
  configuring a location for quiet hours.
       [0010] FIG. 3 illustrates an example graphical user interface for configuring quiet
  hours for a calendar event.

1002234779
       [0011] FIG. 4 illustrates an example graphical user interface for configuring quiet
  hours for an alarm clock event.
       [0012] FIG. 5 illustrates an example graphical user interface with a quiet hours
  indicator.
       [0013] FIG. 6 is flow diagram of an example quiet hours process.
       [0014] FIG. 7 is a block diagram of an exemplary system architecture
  implementing the features and processes of FIGS. 1-6.
       [0015] Like reference symbols in the various drawings indicate like elements.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
       [0016] This disclosure describes various Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs) for
  implementing various features, processes or workflows. These GUIs can be presented
  on a variety of electronic devices including but not limited to laptop computers,
  desktop computers, computer terminals, television systems, tablet computers, e-book
  readers and smart phones. One or more of these electronic devices can include a
  touch-sensitive surface. The touch-sensitive surface can process multiple
  simultaneous points of input, including processing data related to the pressure, degree
  or position of each point of input. Such processing can facilitate gestures with
  multiple fingers, including pinching and swiping.
       [0017] When the disclosure refers to "select" or "selecting" user interface
  elements in a GUI, these terms are understood to include clicking or "hovering" with
  a mouse or other input device over a user interface element, or touching, tapping or
  gesturing with one or more fingers or stylus on a user interface element. User
  interface elements can be virtual buttons, menus, selectors, switches, sliders,
  scrubbers, knobs, thumbnails, links, icons, radial buttons, checkboxes and any other
  mechanism for receiving input from, or providing feedback to a user.
       [0018] When the disclosure refers to "scroll" or "scrolling" a GUI, these terms are
  understood to include manipulating the GUI with a mouse or other input device, or
  touching, tapping or gesturing with one or more fingers or stylus on a user interface to
  cause the GUI to appear to scroll. For example, a user can provide input to a user
  interface elements (e.g., virtual buttons, switches, sliders, scrubbers, knobs, buttons
  and any other mechanism) to cause the GUI to scroll.

1002234779
                               Quiet Hours - Manual Setting
       [0019] FIGS. 1A and lB illustrate example graphical user interface 100 for
  configuring quiet hours on a computing device. For example, a user can scroll
  graphical user interface 100 to display the graphical elements of FIGS. 1A and lB.
  Graphical user interface 100 can be accessed by selecting a system settings function
  of the computing device, for example.
       [0020] In some implementations, graphical user interface 100 can include
  graphical element 102 for initiating and/or terminating quiet hours on the computing
  device. For example, a user can select graphical element 102 to manually initiate
  quiet hours on the computing device. During quiet hours, notifications that would
  normally be generated by the computing device can be suppressed. For example,
  when the computing device detects an event (e.g., incoming telephone call, text
  message, email, calendar event, etc.) during quiet hours that would normally trigger a
  notification that causes the computing device to generate a sound (e.g., a ringer),
  cause movement (e.g., vibration), or present a graphical notification (e.g., illuminate
  the display of the mobile device), the sound, movement or illumination can be
  suppressed. A user can terminate quiet hours by selecting graphical element 102. For
  example, graphical element 102 can function as an on/off toggle such that when quiet
  hours is turned off, selection of graphical element 102 turns quiet hours on and when
  quiet hours is turned on, selection of graphical element 102 turns quiet hours off.
                         Quiet Hours - Automatic/Scheduled Setting
       [0021] In some implementations, quiet hours can be automatically initiated and
  terminated based on a user-defined schedule. For example, graphical user interface
   100 can include graphical element 104 (e.g., a switch) for turning on/off scheduled
  quiet hours. In some implementations, a user can specify what types of notifications
  can be received during quiet hours, for example, SMS text messages may be blocked
  while email messages are allowed to generate a notification. In some
  implementations, a user can specify a period of time during which quiet hours are
  active. For example, graphical element 106 can be selected to present an interface
  (not shown) for specifying which days of the week to observe quiet hours and the time
  period (e.g., start time and end time) during which quiet hours should be enforced on

1002234779
  the selected days. For example, a user can specify that quiet hours should be enforced
  between 9pm and 7am on weekdays (e.g., Monday-Friday).
       [0022] In some implementations, quiet hours can be adjusted based on time zones.
  For example, graphical user interface 100 can include a switch 108 for turning on/off
  automatic time zone adjustments to the quiet hours schedule. For example, if the
  computing device is moved from the Pacific Time Zone to the Central Time Zone, the
  quiet hours schedule can be automatically adjusted to account for the time difference.
  In some implementations, if automatic time zone adjustment for quiet hours is turned
  off, the user can be prompted to adjust the quiet hours schedule based on movement
  of the computing device. For example, if the user travels with the computing device
  from San Francisco, CA to Denver, CO and automatic time zone adjustment is turned
  off, the device can present a graphical notification (not shown) asking the user if the
  user would like the quiet hours schedule to be adjusted to Denver (Central) time. The
  user can provide input to the graphical notification to cause the quiet hours schedule
  to be adjusted to Central Time or can provide input to maintain the quiet hours
  schedule according to Pacific Time.
       [0023] In some implementations, graphical user interface 100 can include
  graphical element 109 for specifying types of notifications (e.g., sound, vibration,
  illumination, none) that are allowed during quiet hours. If the user specifies that
  notifications by illumination (e.g., illuminate the display of the computing device and
  present a graphical notification) are allowed then notifications that would normally
  cause a sound or vibration will merely cause an illumination of the display and a
  presentation of a graphical notification. If the user specifies that no notifications are
  allowed, then all notifications will be suppressed; no sound, vibration and/or
  illumination will be generated by the mobile device in response to a detected event.
                                   Quiet Hours Exceptions
       [0024] In some implementations, a user can configure the computing device to
  allow notifications during quiet hours. For example, graphical user interface 100 can
  include graphical element 110 (e.g., a switch) for turning on/off a quiet hours
  exception for contacts in the user's address book. If graphical element 110 is in the
  "on" state, events (e.g., telephone call, text message, email, etc.) associated with a
  contact in the user's contacts database (e.g., address book) will generate a notification

1002234779
  during quiet hours. Notifications that are not associated with a contact in the user's
  contacts database or address book will be suppressed according to normal quiet hours
  operation. Similarly, quiet hours exceptions for favorite contacts can be turned on by
  selecting graphical element 112. For example, a user can specify a group of favorite
  contacts in the user's contacts database.
       [0025] Graphical user interface 100 can include graphical element 114 for
  identifying contact groups in the user's address book that qualify for a quiet hours
  exception. For example, a user can generate groups of contacts (e.g., work, family,
  softball team, favorites, VTP, etc.) in the user's address book. The user can select
  graphical element 114 to view and select one or more contact groups for which a quiet
  hours exception should apply. If an event associated with a member of a selected
  contact group is detected and generates a notification during quiet hours, the
  notification from the selected group will not be suppressed. Similarly, quiet hours
  exceptions for specific or individual contacts can be specified by selecting graphical
  element 116.
       [0026] In some implementations, a quiet hours exception can be based on the
  urgency of an event. For example, the urgency of an event can be inferred by how
  soon the event is repeated. Graphical element 118 can be selected by the user to
  specify a threshold period of time by which the urgency of an event can be
  determined. For example, a user can select graphical element 110 and specify a time
  period of three minutes. Thus, if two telephone calls, text messages, emails, etc., are
  received during quiet hours from the same caller within a three minute period, the
  second call can cause a notification (e.g., sound, movement, illumination) to be
  generated by the computing device.
       [0027] In some implementations, a quiet hours exception can be inferred from
  prior user activity on the computing device. For example, if during quiet hours the
  user initiates a phone call, text message, email, or other communication to a particular
  person, a reply communication from the particular person can be allowed to generate
  a notification on the computing device. In some implementations, the reply exception
  can be subject to a window of time during which the reply exception will apply. For
  example, if the reply communication from the particular person is received within an
  hour, the reply exception can apply and a notification can be generated. If the reply
  communication is received three hours after the user-initiated communication, then

1002234779
  the reply communication from the particular person can be suppressed. The reply
  threshold can be specified by the user by selecting graphical element 120.
                Automatically Enabling Quiet Hours for Application Events
       [0028] Referring to FIG. IB, graphical user interface 100 can include graphical
  element 122 for turning on/off quiet hours for calendar events. For example, a user
  can select graphical element 122 to cause quiet hours to be automatically enabled for
  calendar
  events (e.g., meetings, appointments, etc.) or based on other calendar data (e.g., office
  hours). For example, when a meeting event is generated for a calendar application on
  the computing device, quiet hours can be automatically enabled for the duration of the
  meeting event so that the user will not receive notifications during the meeting. In
  some implementations, a user may select individual calendar events to cause quiet
  hours to be enabled, such that some, but not all, calendar events suppress
  notifications.
       [0029] In some implementations, if the calendar application has information that
  specifies office hours (e.g., working hours) for the user, quiet hours can be enabled
  such that work related notifications will be suppressed during non-working hours
  and/or non-work related notifications will be suppressed during working hours. For
  example, if an email is received from a work email account during non-working
  hours, the work email notification can be suppressed. Similarly, if an email is
  received from a non-work email account during working hours, the non-work email
  notification can be suppressed. Telephone calls, text messages and other
  communication notifications can be handled in a similar manner.
       [0030] In some implementations, graphical user interface 100 can include
  graphical element 124 for turning on quiet hours for alarm clock events. For example,
  a user can select graphical element 124 to cause quiet hours to be automatically
  enabled for alarm clock events. In some implementations, quiet hours can be
  automatically enabled when the user sets an alarm in an alarm clock application and
  automatically disabled when the alarm goes off. In some implementations, quiet
  hours can be automatically disabled if the user starts using the computing device after
  the alarm is set. For example, if the user sets the alarm to wake the user up in the
                                                   '7-

1002234779
  morning at 8am but the user starts using the computing device at 7am, quiet hours can
  be disabled at 7am based on the use of the computing device.
                 Automatically Enabling Quiet Hours Based on Movement
       [0031] In some implementations, quiet hours can be enabled/disabled based on
  movement of the mobile device. For example, sensors on the mobile device can detect
  the speed at which the mobile device is moving and determine a corresponding
  activity. If the device is moving at three miles per hour, the device can determine that
  the user is walking. If the device is moving at six miles per hour, the device can
  determine that the user is running. If the device is moving at twenty miles per hour,
  the device can determine that the user is driving or riding in a motor vehicle.
       [0032] In some implementations, graphical user interface 100 can include
  graphical element 126 for enabling quiet hours while the user is driving or riding in a
  car. For example, a user may want to reduce the number of distractions while driving
  and/or reduce the temptation to use the computing device while driving. Thus, a user
  can cause the mobile device to automatically suppress notifications while driving by
  selecting graphical element 126.
       [0033] In some implementations, graphical user interface 100 can include
  graphical element 128 for enabling quiet hours while the user is running or walking.
  For example, a user may not want to be bothered with notifications while exercising.
  The user may be listening to music while walking and/or running and may be annoyed
  by notifications interrupting the user's workout or enjoyment of music. Thus, a user
  can cause the mobile device to suppress notifications while walking and/or running by
  selecting graphical element 128.
       [0034] In some embodiments, a detection that the device is not moving may be
  used to activate quiet hours and suppress notifications. For example, a user may place
  their mobile device on a nightstand or desk before sleep -     a detection that the mobile
  device is not moving can be used as an indication that notifications should be
  suppressed. In other embodiments, a detection that the mobile device has not been
  moving for a predetermined period of time may similarly indicate that a user has
  placed the mobile device in a fixed position and that notifications should be
  suppressed.

1002234779
                     Automatically Enabling Quiet Hours for Locations
       [0035] In some implementations, quiet hours can be enabled/disabled based on a
  location. For example, if the user attends church, the user may wish to suppress
  notifications while at church. If the user likes to go to the movies, the user may wish
  to suppress notifications while at the movie theater. When the user is proximate to a
  designated location, quiet hours can be enabled. For example, proximity can be based
  on the current location of the mobile device as determined by using any of a variety of
  location determination technologies, including global navigation satellite systems,
  dead-reckoning, geofencing and/or other location determination technologies. When
  the user moves away from a designated location, quiet hours can be disabled. Thus,
  in some implementations, graphical user interface 100 can include graphical element
   130 for identifying locations where quiet hours should be enforced, as described
  further below with reference to FIGS. 2A and 2B.
       [0036] FIGS. 2A and 2B illustrate example graphical user interfaces 200 and 250
  for configuring a location for quiet hours. In some implementations, graphical user
  interface 200 can be presented in response to a user selecting graphical element 130 of
  FIG. lB. Graphical user interface 200 can include a listing of locations 202, 204 that
  have been configured for quiet hours. In some implementations, a user can select
  graphical element 206 or 208 to view and edit information corresponding to locations
  202 and 204, respectively. In some implementations, a user can delete a location from
  the list of locations by selecting graphical element 210. For example, a user can select
  location 202 and then select graphical element 210 to delete the location.
  Alternatively, on a touch-screen device, a user can slide or swipe a finger across the
  location to cause a delete button to be displayed. The user can then select the delete
  button to delete the location from the list of locations. In some implementations, a
  new location can be configured for quiet hours by selecting graphical element 212.
       [0037] In some implementations, graphical user interface 250 of FIG. 2B can be
  presented in response to a user selecting graphical element 206 or 208. If graphical
  user interface 250 is presented in response to a selection of graphical element 206 or
  208, graphical user interface 250 can be populated with data configured for the
  location corresponding to graphical element 206 or 208 so that the user can edit the
  data. Graphical user interface 250 can then be used to edit or modify the data (e.g.,
  parameters) for the location. If graphical user interface 250 is presented in response
                                                   _a_

1002234779
  to a selection of graphical element 212, the graphical user interface 250 can be
  populated with default information. The default information can then be modified to
  specify quiet hours parameters for the new location.
       [0038] In some implementations, graphical user interface 250 can include
  graphical element 252 for receiving text specifying a label for the location. For
  example, graphical element 252 can be a text input box and the user can type in a
  name or label for a location. Graphical user interface can include graphical element
  254 for specifying a geographic location. For example, graphical element 254 can
  specify the current location of the mobile device as the default location. If the user
  selects graphical element 254, the user can enter an address specifying to the
  geographic location where quiet hours should he enforced. Alternatively, when the
  user selects graphical element 254, a map interface (not shown-) can be displayed and
  the user can select or otherwise identify a geographic location on the map where quiet
  hours should be enforced. Graphical user interface 250 can include graphical element
  255 for specifying proximity. For example, the user can select a graphical element
  255 to specify a proximity, distance, or radius about the location within which quiet
  hours should be enforced. The user-specified geographic location can then be
  displayed on graphical element 254.
       [0039] In some implementations, graphical user interface. 250 can include
  graphical element 256 for specifying quiet hours start and end times for a location.
  For example, if a user attends church services between 8am and 10am on Sunday and
  works at the church at other times, the user may wish to have quiet hours enforced
  during the church services but allow notifications during other times when the user is
  at the church location. In some implementations, quiet hours can be enforced at a
  specified location at all times. For example, the default value for graphical element
  256 can be "all" or some other indication that quiet hours is always enforced at the
  specified location. The user can then change the default value to a specified time
  period if the user wants quiet hours enforced only during a particular time period.
  The specified time period can be a recurring time period. F or example, the recurring
  time period can be Monday through Friday, 8am to 6pm.
       [0040] In some implementations, quiet hours at a specified location can be
  enforced selectively based on characteristics of an event that triggers a notification.
  For example, characteristics can include who caused the event (e.g., a contact), a
                                                 _1 _

1002234779
  communication mechanism (e.g., an email account) or any other characteristic. In
  some implementations, graphical element 258 can be used to specify email accounts
  that should be excepted from quiet hours enforcement. For example, a user can add a
  work location to the locations where quiet hours should be enforced but specify using
  graphical element 258 that email received from a work account should generate
  notifications during quiet hours at the work location. Similarly, a user can specify
  quiet hours for a home location and specify an exception allowing email from a
  personal account to trigger notifications. Thus, a user can specify what types of emails
  the user will receive notifications for at specific locations. Similarly, telephone
  notifications can be configured by selecting graphical element 260 for a specified
  quiet hours location such that only telephone calls from specified contacts (e.g.,
  individuals, groups, etc.) will generate notifications at a specified location. Text
  messages exceptions can be configured for a quiet hours location in a similar manner
  as email and telephone by selecting graphical element 262. Once the user has
  configured the location with the quiet hours location parameters described above, the
  user can select graphical element 264 to save the quiet hours location configuration.
  The user can select graphical element 266 to exit or close graphical user interface 250
  without saving any changes. Once the new location is saved, the location can be
  displayed in graphical user interface 200 of FIG. 2A.
                           Enabling Quiet Hours in Applications
       [0041] In some implementations, quiet hours can be configured within
  applications. For example, a calendar application can enable quiet hours for a time
  period corresponding to a scheduled meeting. A clock application can enable quiet
  hours for a time period corresponding to a sleep/wake schedule.
                                      CalendarEvents
       [0042] FIG. 3 illustrates an example graphical user interface 300 for configuring
  quiet hours for a calendar event. For example, a user can invoke graphical user
  interface 300 from within a calendar application by providing input indicating that the
  user wants to generate a new calendar event (e.g., meeting, appointment, etc.).
  Graphical user interface 300 can include graphical element 302 for specifying a title
                                                  _1 1 _

1002234779
  for the calendar event. For example, graphical element 302 can be a text box for
  entering a title for the calendar event.
       [0043] Graphical user interface 300 can include a graphical element 304 for
  specifying a location associated with the calendar event. For example, the location
  can be an ad hoc description of the location, an address or a name that corresponds to
  a contact in the user's address book or contacts list. In some implementations, if quiet
  hours are turned on for a calendar event, quiet hours will be enforced only if the user
  or computing device is at the location associated with the calendar event. Thus, if the
  user misses the appointment or meeting, the user will still get notifications on the
  computing device even though quiet hours has been turned on for the time period of
  the calendar event.
       [0044] Graphical user interface 300 can include graphical element 306 for
  specifying start and end times for the calendar event. For example, a user can select
  graphical element 306 to invoke a graphical user interface (not shown) for specifying
  start and end times for the calendar event.
       [0045] Graphical user interface 300 can include graphical element 308 for
  specifying the user's availability during the calendar event. For example, a user can
  specify that the user will be available or busy. In some implementations, quiet hours
  can be enabled for the duration of the calendar event based on the specified
  availability of the user. For example, if the user selects graphical element 308 and
  selects 'busy' as the user's availability for the duration of the calendar event, quiet
  hours can be enforced based on the 'busy' availability selection. Alternatively, if the
  user selects graphical element 308 and selects 'free' or 'available' as the availability
  selection, then quiet hours will not be enforced during the calendar event.
       [0046] Graphical user interface 300 can include graphical element 310 for turning
  on/off quiet hours for a calendar event. For example, if quiet hours has been enabled
  for calendar events using the system settings of graphical user interface 100, then
  when a new calendar event is generated graphical element 310 can default to 'on.'
  The user can select graphical element 310 to toggle quiet hours to 'off' for the new
  calendar event if the user does not want quiet hours enforced for the new calendar
  event. If quiet hours has not been previously enabled for calendar events (e.g., through
  the system settings of graphical user interface 100), the user can select graphical
                                                   ~11)

1002234779
  element 310 to enable quiet hours for the new calendar event. Quiet hours can then be
  enforced for the duration of the calendar event.
                                    Alarm Clock Events
       [0047] FIG. 4 illustrates an example graphical user interface 400 for configuring
  quiet hours for an alarm clock event. Graphical user interface 400 can include
  graphical element 402 for specifying when to repeat the alarm (e.g., every day,
  weekdays, Mondays, etc.). Graphical element 404 can be selected to invoke an
  interface (not shown) that allows the user to select a type of sound associated with the
  alarm. Graphical element 406 allows the user to specify a label for the alarm. For
  example, the user can enter text for the label. A user can interact with graphical
  element 410 to specify a time at which the alarm should sound. For example,
  graphical element 410 can include scrollable numbers for setting hours and minutes
  and a scrollable element for specifying AM or PM.
       [0048] Graphical user interface 400 can include graphical element 412 for
  enabling/disabling (e.g., turning on/off) quiet hours for the alarm clock event. For
  example, if quiet hours has been enabled for alarm clock events using the system
  settings of graphical user interface 100, then when a new alarm clock event is
  generated graphical element 412 can default to 'on' and quiet hours can be enforced
  from the time when the alarm is turned on to the time the alarm sounds (goes off).
  The user can select graphical element 310 to toggle quiet hours to 'off' for the new
  alarm clock event if the user does not want quiet hours enforced for the new alarm
  clock event. If quiet hours has not been previously enabled for alarm clock events
  (e.g., through the system settings of graphical user interface 100), the user can select
  graphical element 310 to enable quiet hours for the new alarm clock event. Quiet
  hours can then be enforced for the duration of the calendar event.
       [0049] In some implementations, quiet hours can be automatically enabled (turned
  on, enforced) when a clock alarm is turned on and automatically disabled when the
  clock alarm sounds. For example, a user can set the alarm to wake the user at 6am in
  the morning. Quiet hours can be automatically enforced when the user turns on the
  clock alarm at night and quiet hours enforcement can automatically terminate when
  the alarm goes off or sounds in the morning. In some implementations, the user can
  be prompted to turn quiet hours on when the user generates a new alarm clock event.
                                                  ill~

1002234779
  For example, if the system settings indicate the quiet hours is turned off for alarm
  clock events, the user can be prompted to turn on quiet hours for a new alarm clock
  event when the alarm clock event is generated.
                      Implying Quiet Hours Based on Patternsof Use
       [0050] In some implementations, quiet hours can be enabled and/or enforced
  based on observed user patterns. For example, the computing device can monitor
  when the user turns quiet hours on or off on the computing device and correlate this
  activity to movement, location, application data or other data available to the
  computing device. For example, if the user repeatedly mutes or turns off the
  computing device during meetings scheduled in the user's calendar, the computing
  device can correlate the action of muting or turning off the computing device to the
  calendar event and automatically determine that the device should enter quiet hours
  during meetings. The device can enable or disable quiet hours automatically or
  present a prompt asking the user if the user wishes to enter into quiet hours mode.
  Similarly, if a user repeatedly mutes or turns off the computing device while at a
  particular location and/or at a particular time, the computing device can correlate the
  user's action (e.g., mute, turn off the device) to the particular location and/or time.
  The computing device can then automatically enter quiet hours when the user is at the
  particular location and/or at the particular time.
                              Example Quiet Hours Indicator
       [0051] FIG. 5 illustrates an example graphical user interface 500 with a quiet
  hours indicator. Graphical user interface 500 can include information area 502 for
  displaying status information for the computing device. For example, information
  area 502 can include signal strength information, telecommunications carrier
  information, the current time and/or battery status information. In some
  implementations, information area 502 can include quiet hours indicator 504. For
  example, quiet hours indicator 504 can include text, symbols, icons or any other type
  of graphical elements for indicating that quiet hours are currently enforced (e.g.,
  turned on) on the computing device. In some implementations, the quiet hours
  indicator can be displayed on portions of graphical user interface 500 other than
  information area 502.
                                                  _1 A _

1002234779
                                       Voice Activation
       [0052] In some implementations, quiet hours can be enabled by voice command.
  For example, the user can speak a command (e.g, "enable quiet hours" or "start quiet
  hours") to enable quiet hours on the computing device. The computing device can
  include a microphone to detect the spoken command. In response to detecting the
  spoken command, the computing device can enable quiet hours on the computing
  device. The computing device can respond to other quiet hours voice commands. For
  example, a user can speak a command such as "do not disturb for the next three
  hours" to enable quiet hours for the next three hours. The computing device can
  detect and process voice commands to enable any of the quiet hours functions
  discussed herein with reference to FIGS. 1-6.
                               Example Quiet Hours Process
       [0053] FIG. 6 is flow diagram 600 of an example quiet hours process. At step
  602, a notification event is detected on a computing device. For example, a
  notification event can be associated with an incoming telephone call, a new voice
  message, receipt of an email, an alarm, a reminder associated with a calendar event, or
  any other event that can trigger a notification on the computing device.
       [0054] At step 604, the computing device can determine that quiet hours are
  enabled on the computing device. For example, quiet hours can be enabled on the
  computing device through the interfaces described above with reference to FIGS. 1-4.
       [0055] At step 606, the computing device can determine whether quiet hours
  criteria have been met. For example, quiet hours criteria can be time, location and/or
  movement based criteria. Quiet hours criteria can include a quiet hours schedule,
  calendar events, alarm clock events, movement/speed thresholds (e.g., corresponding
  to driving, walking, running, etc.), specified locations, for example. If the quiet hours
  criteria has not been met (e.g., the current time is not within a time period specified
  for quiet hours, the current location is not a designated quiet hours location, device
  movement does not exceed a specified threshold, etc.), then notifications generated
  for events detected by the computing device will not be suppressed.
       [0056] If the quiet hours criteria has been met at step 606, then at step 610 the
  computing device can determine whether a quiet hours exception has been met. For
                                                  ~1r%

1002234779
  example, a quiet hours exception can correspond to events associated with designated
  contacts, events that are determined to be urgent (e.g., where a caller calls again
  within a short period of time) or events that were initiated by the user of the
  computing device (e.g., a reply to a user-initiated phone call, text message, email,
  etc.). In some implementations, if one or more quiet hours exceptions are met, the
  computing device can allow a notification for the detected event at step 608. In some
  implementations, if no quiet hours exceptions are met, the computing device can
  prevent or suppress notifications for the detected event at step 612.
                                Example System Architecture
       [0057] FIG. 7 is a block diagram of an example computing device 700 that can
  implement the features and processes of FIGS. 1-6. The computing device 700 can
  include a memory interface 702, one or more data processors, image processors
  and/or central processing units 704, and a peripherals interface 706. The memory
  interface 702, the one or more processors 704 and/or the peripherals interface 706 can
  be separate components or can be integrated in one or more integrated circuits. The
  various components in the computing device 700 can be coupled by one or more
  communication buses or signal lines.
       [0058] Sensors, devices, and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals
  interface 706 to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example, a motion sensor 710,
  a light sensor 712, and a proximity sensor 714 can be coupled to the peripherals
  interface 706 to facilitate orientation, lighting, and proximity functions. Other sensors
  716 can also be connected to the peripherals interface 706, such as a global navigation
  satellite system (GNSS) (e.g., GPS receiver), a temperature sensor, a biometric sensor,
  or other sensing device, to facilitate related functionalities.
       [0059] A camera subsystem 720 and an optical sensor 722, e.g., a charged
  coupled device (CCD) or a complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS)
  optical sensor, can be utilized to facilitate camera functions, such as recording
  photographs and video clips. The camera subsystem 720 and the optical sensor 722
  can be used to collect images of a user to be used during authentication of a user, e.g.,
  by performing facial recognition analysis.
       [0060] Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless
  communication subsystems 724, which can include radio frequency receivers and
                                                   ~1or

1002234779
  transmitters and/or optical (e.g., infrared) receivers and transmitters. The specific
  design and implementation of the communication subsystem 724 can depend on the
  communication network(s) over which the computing device 700 is intended to
  operate. For example, the computing device 700 can include communication
  subsystems 724 designed to operate over a GSM network, a GPRS network, an EDGE
  network, a Wi-Fi or WiMax network, and a BluetoothTM network. In particular, the
  wireless communication subsystems 724 can include hosting protocols such that the
  device 100 can be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.
       [0061] An audio subsystem 726 can be coupled to a speaker 728 and a
  microphone 730 to facilitate voice-enabled functions, such as speaker recognition,
  voice replication, digital recording, and telephony functions. The audio subsystem
  726 can be configured to facilitate presentation of sounds associated with
  notifications, as described above with reference to FIGS. 1-6.
       [0062] The 1/0 subsystem 740 can include a touch-surface controller 742 and/or
  other input controller(s) 744. The touch-surface controller 742 can be coupled to a
  touch surface 746. The touch surface 746 and touch-surface controller 742 can, for
  example, detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of
  touch sensitivity technologies, including but not limited to capacitive, resistive,
  infrared, and surface acoustic wave technologies, as well as other proximity sensor
  arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch
  surface 746.
       [0063] The other input controller(s) 744 can be coupled to other input/control
  devices 748, such as one or more buttons, rocker switches, thumb-wheel, infrared
  port, USB port, and/or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons (not
  shown) can include an up/down button for volume control of the speaker 728 and/or
  the microphone 730.
       [0064] In one implementation, a pressing of the button for a first duration can
  disengage a lock of the touch surface 746; and a pressing of the button for a second
  duration that is longer than the first duration can turn power to the computing device
  700 on or off. Pressing the button for a third duration can activate a voice control, or
  voice command, module that enables the user to speak commands into the
  microphone 730 to cause the device to execute the spoken command. The user can
                                                  _1 7

1002234779
  customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch surface 746 can,
  for example, also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and/or a keyboard.
       [0065] In some implementations, the computing device 700 can present recorded
  audio and/or video files, such as MP3, AAC, and MPEG files. In some
  implementations, the computing device 700 can include the functionality of an MP3
  player, such as an iPodTM. The computing device 700 can, therefore, include a 36-pin
  connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input/output and control devices
  can also be used.
       [0066] The memory interface 702 can be coupled to memory 750. The memory
  750 can include high-speed random access memory and/or non-volatile memory, such
  as one or more magnetic disk storage devices, one or more optical storage devices,
  and/or flash memory (e.g., NAND, NOR). The memory 750 can store an operating
  system 752, such as Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X, WINDOWS, or an
  embedded operating system such as VxWorks.
       [0067] The operating system 752 can include instructions for handling basic
  system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some
  implementations, the operating system 752 can be a kernel (e.g., UNIX kernel). In
  some implementations, the operating system 752 can include instructions for
  receiving quiet hours configuration input and enforcing quiet hours on the computing
  device. Operating system 752 can implement the quiet hours features described with
  reference to FIGS. 1-6.
       [0068] The memory 750 can also store communication instructions 754 to
  facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices, one or more computers
  and/or one or more servers. The memory 750 can include graphical user interface
  instructions 756 to facilitate graphic user interface processing; sensor processing
  instructions 758 to facilitate sensor-related processing and functions; phone
  instructions 760 to facilitate phone-related processes and functions; electronic
  messaging instructions 762 to facilitate electronic-messaging related processes and
  functions; web browsing instructions 764 to facilitate web browsing-related processes
  and functions; media processing instructions 766 to facilitate media processing-related
  processes and functions; GNSS/Navigation instructions 768 to facilitate GNSS and
  navigation-related processes and instructions; and/or camera instructions 770 to
  facilitate camera-related processes and functions.
                                                  ~1Q

1002234779
       [0069] The memory 750 can store other software instructions 772 to facilitate
  other processes and functions, such as the quiet hours processes and functions as
  described with reference to FIGS. 1-6. For example, the software instructions can
  include instructions for receiving quiet hours configuration information from calendar
  and clock applications on the computing device.
       [0070] The memory 750 can also store other software instructions (not shown),
  such as web video instructions to facilitate web video-related processes and functions;
  and/or web shopping instructions to facilitate web shopping-related processes and
  functions. In some implementations, the media processing instructions 766 are
  divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to
  facilitate audio processing-related processes and functions and video processing
  related processes and functions, respectively. An activation record and International
  Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) 774 or similar hardware identifier can also be
  stored in memory 750.
       [0071] Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond
  to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These
  instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures, or
  modules. The memory 750 can include additional instructions or fewer instructions.
  Furthermore, various functions of the computing device 700 can be implemented in
  hardware and/or in software, including in one or more signal processing and/or
  application specific integrated circuits.
       [0072] Therefore, according to the above, some examples of the disclosure are
  directed to a method comprising: detecting a notification event on a mobile device,
  where the mobile device is configured to generate sound, light, movement or a
  combination thereof in response to the notification event determining whether one or
  more criteria are met, where the one or more criteria include time-based, location
  based or movement-based criteria; and preventing the mobile device from generating
  sound, light and/or movement in response to detecting the notification event when the
  one or more criteria are met. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
  examples disclosed above, in some examples the determining further comprises
  determining that the mobile device is near a pre-defined geographic location.
  Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
  examples the determining further comprises determining that a time associated with
                                                 10

1002234779
  the notification event falls within a specified time period. Additionally or
  alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples the
  determining further comprises determining that a user-mode has been activated that
  silences the mobile device, including generating sound, light and/or movement.
  Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
  examples the user-mode is manually activated and de-activated. Additionally or
  alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples the
  determining further comprises determining the mobile device is moving faster than a
  threshold speed. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples
  disclosed above, in some examples the determining further comprises determining the
  mobile device is moving slower than a threshold speed for a pre-determined amount
  of time. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above,
  in some examples the determining further comprises: determining that one or more
  exceptions are met; and allowing, in response to detecting the notification event when
  the one or more exceptions are met, the mobile device to generating sound, light or
  movement. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed
  above, in some examples the determining the one or more exceptions is met further
  comprises determining that the notification event is associated with a contact stored in
  a contacts database on the mobile device. Additionally or alternatively to one or more
  of the examples disclosed above, in some examples the determining the one or more
  exceptions is met further comprises determining that the notification event is
  associated with a contact that is associated with a previous notification event that was
  detected within a threshold period of time.
       [0073] Some examples of the disclosure are directed to a non-transitory computer
  readable medium including one or more sequences of instructions which, when
  executed by one or more processors, causes: detecting a notification event on a mobile
  device, where the mobile device is configured to generate sound, light, movement or a
  combination thereof in response to the notification event; determining whether one or
  more criteria are met, where the one or more criteria include time-based, location
  based or movement-based criteria; and preventing the mobile device from generating
  sound, light and/or movement in response to detecting the notification event when the
  one or more criteria are met. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
  examples disclosed above, in some examples the instructions that cause determining

1002234779
  further comprise instructions that cause determining that the mobile device is near a
  pre-defined geographic location. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
  examples disclosed above, in some examples the instructions that cause determining
  further comprise instructions that cause determining that a time associated with the
  notification event falls within a specified time period. Additionally or alternatively to
  one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples the instructions that
  cause determining further comprise instructions that cause determining that a user
  mode has been activated that silences the mobile device, including generating sound,
  light and/or movement. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples
  disclosed above, in some examples the user-mode is manually activated and de
  activated. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed
  above, in some examples the instructions that cause determining further comprise
  instructions that cause determining the mobile device is moving faster than a
  threshold speed. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples
  disclosed above, in some examples the instructions that cause determining further
  comprise instructions that cause determining the mobile device is moving slower than
  a threshold speed for a pre-determined amount of time. Additionally or alternatively
  to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples the instructions
  that cause determining further comprise instructions that cause: determining that one
  or more exceptions are met; and allowing, in response to detecting the notification
  event when the one or more exceptions are met, the mobile device to generating
  sound, light or movement. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
  examples disclosed above, in some examples the instructions that cause determining
  the one or more exceptions is met further comprise instructions that cause
  determining that the notification event is associated with a contact stored in a contacts
  database on the mobile device. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
  examples disclosed above, in some examples the instructions that cause determining
  the one or more exceptions is met further comprise instructions that cause determining
  that the notification event is associated with a contact that is associated with a
  previous notification event that was detected within a threshold period of time.
       [0074] Some examples of the disclosure are directed to a system comprising: one
  or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable medium including one or
  more sequences of instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors,
                                                  ~s1

1002234779
  causes: detecting a notification event on a mobile device, where the mobile device is
  configured to generate sound, light, movement or a combination thereof in response to
  the notification event; determining whether one or more criteria are met, where the
  one or more criteria include time-based, location-based or movement-based criteria;
  and preventing the mobile device from generating sound, light and/or movement in
  response to detecting the notification event when the one or more criteria are met.
  Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
  examples the instructions that cause determining further comprise instructions that
  cause determining that the mobile device is near a pre-defined geographic location.
  Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
  examples the instructions that cause determining further comprise instructions that
  cause determining that a time associated with the notification event falls within a
  specified time period. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples
  disclosed above, in some examples the instructions that cause determining further
  comprise instructions that cause determining that a user-mode has been activated that
  silences the mobile device, including generating sound, light and/or movement.
  Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
  examples the user-mode is manually activated and deactivated. Additionally or
  alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples the
  instructions that cause determining further comprise instructions that cause
  determining the mobile device is moving faster than a threshold speed. Additionally
  or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples the
  instructions that cause determining further comprise instructions that cause
  determining the mobile device is moving slower than a threshold speed for a pre
  determined amount of time. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
  examples disclosed above, in some examples the instructions that cause determining
  further comprise instructions that cause: determining that one or more exceptions are
  met; and allowing, in response to detecting the notification event when the one or
  more exceptions are met, the mobile device to generating sound, light or movement.
  Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
  examples the instructions that cause determining the one or more exceptions is met
  further comprise instructions that cause determining that the notification event is
  associated with a contact stored in a contacts database on the mobile device.

1002234779
  Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
  examples the instructions that cause determining the one or more exceptions is met
  further comprise instructions that cause determining that the notification event is
  associated with a contact that is associated with a previous notification event that was
  detected within a threshold period of time.

1002234779
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
           1.   A method comprising:
           detecting a notification event on a mobile device, where the mobile device is
  configured to generate sound, light, movement or a combination thereof in response to
  the notification event;
           determining whether one or more criteria are met, where the one or more
  criteria include time-based, location-based or movement-based criteria; and
           preventing the mobile device from generating sound, light and/or movement in
  response to detecting the notification event when the one or more criteria are met.
           2.    The method of claim 1, wherein the determining further comprises
  determining that the mobile device is near a pre-defined geographic location.
           3.    The method of claim 1, wherein the determining further comprises
  determining that a time associated with the notification event falls within a specified
  time period.
           4.    The method of claim 1, wherein the determining further comprises
  determining that a user-mode has been activated that silences the mobile device,
  including generating sound, light and/or movement.
           5.    The method of claim 1, wherein the determining further comprises
  determining the mobile device is moving faster than a threshold speed.
           6.    The method of claim 1, wherein the determining further comprises
  determining the mobile device is moving slower than a threshold speed for a pre
  determined amount of time.
           7.    The method of claim 1, wherein the determining further comprises:
           determining that one or more exceptions are met; and
           allowing, in response to detecting the notification event when the one or more
  exceptions are met, the mobile device to generating sound, light or movement.
                                                 -24-

1002234779
           8.    The method of claim 7, wherein the determining the one or more
  exceptions is met further comprises determining that the notification event is
  associated with a contact stored in a contacts database on the mobile device.
           9.    The method of claim 7, wherein the determining the one or more
  exceptions is met further comprises determining that the notification event is
  associated with a contact that is associated with a previous notification event that was
  detected within a threshold period of time.
           10.  A non-transitory computer-readable medium including one or more
  sequences of instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, causes:
           detecting a notification event on a mobile device, where the mobile device is
  configured to generate sound, light, movement or a combination thereof in response to
  the notification event;
           determining whether one or more criteria are met, where the one or more
  criteria include time-based, location-based or movement-based criteria; and
           preventing the mobile device from generating sound, light and/or movement in
  response to detecting the notification event when the one or more criteria are met.
           11.   The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the
  instructions that cause determining further comprise instructions that cause
  determining that the mobile device is near a pre-defined geographic location.
           12.   The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the
  instructions that cause determining further comprise instructions that cause
  determining that a time associated with the notification event falls within a specified
  time period.
           13.   The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the
  instructions that cause determining further comprise instructions that cause
  determining that a user-mode has been activated that silences the mobile device,
  including generating sound, light and/or movement.
                                                 -25-

1002234779
           14.  The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the
  instructions that cause determining further comprise instructions that cause
  determining the mobile device is moving faster than a threshold speed.
           15.  The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the
  instructions that cause determining further comprise instructions that cause
  determining the mobile device is moving slower than a threshold speed for a pre
  determined amount of time.
           16.  The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the
  instructions that cause determining further comprise instructions that cause:
           determining that one or more exceptions are met; and
           allowing, in response to detecting the notification event when the one or more
  exceptions are met, the mobile device to generating sound, light or movement.
           17.  The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the
  instructions that cause determining the one or more exceptions is met further comprise
  instructions that cause determining that the notification event is associated with a
  contact stored in a contacts database on the mobile device.
           18.  The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the
  instructions that cause determining the one or more exceptions is met further comprise
  instructions that cause determining that the notification event is associated with a
  contact that is associated with a previous notification event that was detected within a
  threshold period of time.
           19.  A system comprising:
           one or more processors; and
           a non-transitory computer-readable medium including one or more sequences
  of instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, causes:
                                                 -26-

1002234779
           detecting a notification event on a mobile device, where the mobile device is
  configured to generate sound, light, movement or a combination thereof in response to
  the notification event;
           determining whether one or more criteria are met, where the one or more
  criteria include time-based, location-based or movement-based criteria; and
           preventing the mobile device from generating sound, light and/or movement in
  response to detecting the notification event when the one or more criteria are met.
           20.   The system of claim 19, wherein the instructions that cause determining
  further comprise instructions that cause determining that the mobile device is near a
  pre-defined geographic location.
           21.   The system of claim 19, wherein the instructions that cause determining
  further comprise instructions that cause determining that a time associated with the
  notification event falls within a specified time period.
           22.   The system of claim 19, wherein the instructions that cause determining
  further comprise instructions that cause determining that a user-mode has been
  activated that silences the mobile device, including generating sound, light and/or
  movement.
           23.   The system of claim 19, wherein the instructions that cause determining
  further comprise instructions that cause determining the mobile device is moving
  faster than a threshold speed.
           24.   The system of claim 19, wherein the instructions that cause determining
  further comprise instructions that cause determining the mobile device is moving
  slower than a threshold speed for a pre-determined amount of time.
           25.   The system of claim 19, wherein the instructions that cause determining
  further comprise instructions that cause:
           determining that one or more exceptions are met; and
                                                 -27-

1002234779
           allowing, in response to detecting the notification event when the one or more
  exceptions are met, the mobile device to generating sound, light or movement.
                                                 -28-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
