                                          ABSTRACT
         A device may receive, from a beacon device, a first message including a first
identifier. The first identifier may be associated with the beacon device. The device may
receive, from a user device, a second message including a second identifier. The second
identifier may be associated with the user device. The device may determine the second
identifier based on the second message and the first identifier. The device may determine
an event associated with the second identifier based on the first identifier. The device may
provide, to another device, information that identifies the second identifier and the event to
permit the other device to identify a displacement trajectory associated with the user device.

                                              1
    DEVICE IDENTIFICATION USING BANDWIDTH EFFICIENT TECHNIQUES
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]    A mobile device may broadcast packets to devices around the mobile device.
Another device may receive the advertised packet, and may identify the mobile device
without establishing a communication link with the mobile device.

                                                  2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       In one aspect, the present invention provides a device, including one or more
processors that receive, from a beacon device, a first message including a first identifier, the
first identifier being associated with the beacon device, receive, from a user device, a second
message including a second identifier, the second identifier being associated with the user
device and encrypted based on the first identifier associated with the beacon device,
determine the second identifier based on the second message and the first identifier
including using the first identifier to decrypt the encrypted second identifier received from the
user device, and receive the second message from the user device without establishing a
communication link with the user device.
[0003]       In another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium storing instructions, the instructions including one or more instructions that,
when executed by one or more processors of a device, cause the one or more processors
to receive, from a beacon device, a first message including a first identifier, the first identifier
being associated with the beacon device, receive, from a user device, a second message
including a second identifier, the second identifier being associated with the user device and
encrypted based on the first identifier associated with the beacon device, determine the
second identifier based on the second message and the first identifier including using the
first identifier to decrypt the encrypted second identifier received from the user device, and
receive the second message from the user device without establishing a communication link
with the user device.
[0004]       In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented
method, including receiving, by a device and from a first beacon device, a first message,
activating, by the device, a scan mode based on the first message, receiving, by the device
and from a second beacon device, a second message based on the scan mode, determining,
by the device, a first identifier based on the second message, the first identifier being
associated with the second beacon device, and providing, by the device and to another
device, a third message including a second identifier, the second identifier being associated
with the device and encrypted based on the first identifier associated with the second beacon

                                                 2a
device, the other device to determine the second identifier based on the first identifier
including using the first identifier to decrypt the encrypted second identifier provided by the
device, and the device to provide the third message to the other device without establishing
a communication link with the other device.

                                              3
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]    Figs. 1A-1 F are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation described
herein;
[0006]    Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment in which systems and/or methods,
described herein, may be implemented;
[0007]    Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of one or more devices of Fig. 2;
[0008]    Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process for device identification using
bandwidth efficient techniques;
[0009]    Fig. 5 is an example interaction diagram of operations capable of being performed
by one or more devices of Fig. 2;
[0010]    Figs. 6A-6C are diagrams of an example implementation relating to the example
process shown in Fig. 4; and
[0011]    Figs. 7A and 7B are diagrams of an example implementation relating to the
example process shown in Fig. 4.

                                                   4
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0012]      The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify
the same or similar elements.
[0013]      In some situations, identification of a device in association with a particular area
may be desired. For example, in a shipping scenario, an entity may be required to identify
a group of devices that are associated with a particular displacement trajectory.             For
example, a group of devices may pass through an identification area at a controlled rate
and/or in a particular order (e.g., serially via a conveyor belt and/or via other means).       In
some cases, the entity may utilize an identification technique, such as near-field
communication (NFC), radio-frequency identification (RFID), and/or Bluetooth to identify a
particular device.
[0014]      As another example, an entity (e.g., a transportation entity) may screen bags,
luggage, or the like, that include devices (e.g., mobile phones, tablet computers, or the like)
to determine whether the devices are associated with an identifier (e.g., a passenger name,
a confirmation number, etc.) on a ticket at an airport.          If the devices pass through an
identification area in a controlled manner (e.g., in a particular order and/or at a controlled
rate), then an identification device may utilize one of the above techniques to perform the
device identification. However, if the devices pass through the identification area in an
uncontrolled manner (e.g., in bulk, or at an increased rate), then the identification device may
be unable to identify each device based on a reduced amount of time to perform the
identification process (e.g., establish a communication link) and/or based on a limited
quantity of available bandwidth.
[0015]      In other situations, identification of a user and/or determination of a displacement
trajectory in association with a particular area or areas may be desired. For example, in a
transit scenario, a transportation entity may be required to identify a user, assess a fare,
and/or control access to a transit station and/or vehicle accordingly.          Additionally, the
transportation entity may be required to perform the above operations in a quick and efficient
manner so as to accommodate a large throughput of users.

                                                5
[0016]     In some cases, a user may utilize an NFC device (e.g., an NFC card) and/or an
RFID tag to gain access to the transit station and/or provide payment for transportation.
However, this method may require that the user carry and use a dedicated device (e.g., the
NFC card or RFID tag) when transiting, and may require that the user perform a physical
operation (e.g., perform a tap operation in association with a card reader), both of which may
prove inconvenient for the user and may impede the throughput of a large quantity of users.
[0017]     In other cases, a user may utilize a mobile device (e.g., a smart phone) to establish
a communication link (e.g., a wireless personal area network communication link, such as a
Bluetooth link) with an access device for fare calculation and access purposes. While this
method may enable a hands-free user experience, the method may nonetheless require a
particular amount of time to establish the communication link (e.g., perform protocol
handshaking). Thus, this method may not accommodate a high throughput of users, and
may also consume mobile device battery, processor, and/or memory resources based on
the additional steps required to establish the communication link.
[0018]     Implementations described herein may enable a zone device to identify a mobile
device based on broadcast signaling which may enable the zone device to identify a mobile
device without establishing a communication link with the mobile device. Implementations
described herein may enable a mobile device to be identified without requiring that the user
perform a physical operation, without requiring that the user utilize a dedicated device, and/or
without requiring that a mobile device include a data connection. Implementations described
herein may improve convenience and scalability of device identification in high throughput
scenarios. Additionally, implementations described herein may alleviate a need of a mobile
device to establish a communication link with an access device, and/or may alleviate a need
of a mobile device to determine an event associated with a transit scenario and communicate
that event to a server device, thereby conserving battery, processor, and/or memory
resources of the mobile device.
[0019]     While some implementations described herein are described in terms of identifying
a device and/or a user in association with a transit scenario, implementations described
herein may be applied to other user identification scenarios, such as a sporting event

                                                6
scenario, a theme park scenario, or an entertainment scenario (e.g., a concert, a play, a
movie, or the like). In practice, these implementations may be used in conjunction with other
types of systems that are associated with device identification.
[0020]      Figs. 1A-1F are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation 100
described herein. As shown in Fig. 1A, assume that a proximity beacon device (e.g., a
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) beacon), a challenge beacon device (e.g., a BLE beacon), and
a zone device (e.g., a computing device) are located in a particular identification area.
Additionally, as shown, assume that a mobile device (e.g., a smart phone) enters the
identification area. For example, assume that the mobile device is being transported through
the identification area (e.g., via a conveyor, or via another transportation means). As shown
by reference number 105, the mobile device may receive a proximity message and may
activate a scan mode. For example, the proximity beacon device may broadcast proximity
messages, which may cause the mobile device to activate a scan mode to scan for challenge
messages (e.g., launch an application associated with the mobile device).
[0021]      As shown in Fig. 1B, and by reference number 110, the challenge beacon device
may broadcast a challenge message.           The challenge message may include a unique
challenge identifier (e.g., "89M4XPK").       As shown, the zone device may receive the
challenge message, and may store the unique challenge identifier. Additionally, as shown
by reference number 115, the mobile device may receive the challenge message, and may
activate a broadcast mode to broadcast response messages.
[0022]      As shown in Fig. 1C, and by reference number 120, the mobile device may provide
a response message (e.g., may broadcast a BLE advertisement signal) that includes an
encrypted identifier (e.g., "AM82TF"). For example, the mobile device may encrypt a mobile
device identifier (e.g., "49SGHA") using the unique challenge identifier and an algorithm
(e.g., a cryptographic algorithm) to generate the encrypted identifier. As shown by reference
number 125, the zone device may receive the response message and may determine the
mobile device identifier and an event. The zone device may use an algorithm (e.g., the same
algorithm used by the mobile device) and the unique challenge identifier to decrypt the
encrypted identifier.    Additionally, the zone device may determine the mobile device

                                                7
identifier. The zone device may correlate the unique challenge identifier with the challenge
beacon device (e.g., associated with an entrance of an identification gate), and may
determine an event (e.g., that the mobile device has entered the identification gate).
[0023]      As shown in Fig. 1D, and by reference number 130, another challenge beacon
device may provide a challenge message including a unique challenge identifier (e.g.,
"489MPL3"). As shown, the zone device may receive the challenge message, and may store
the unique challenge identifier. Additionally, the mobile device may receive the challenge
message, and may generate a response message.
[0024]      As shown in Fig. 1E, and by reference number 135, the mobile device may encrypt
the mobile device identifier using the unique challenge identifier and an algorithm to generate
an encrypted identifier (e.g., "SP3L4M"), and may provide the response message to the zone
device. As shown by reference number 140, the zone device may decrypt the encrypted
identifier, and may determine the mobile device identifier and another event. For example,
the zone device may correlate the unique challenge identifier (e.g., "489MPL3") with the
challenge beacon device, and may determine an event (e.g., that the mobile device has
exited the identification gate).
[0025]      As shown in Fig. 1F, and by reference number 145, the zone device may provide,
to a server device (e.g., a server), information that identifies the event(s). As shown, the
zone device may provide information that identifies that the mobile device (e.g., the mobile
device identifier) is associated with an enter event and an exit event. Additionally, as shown,
the zone device may provide context information such as respective times associated with
the events. As shown by reference number 150, the server device may identify the mobile
device identifier and perform an action (e.g., "update account"). In this way, the zone device
may receive broadcast signals from the mobile device, may determine events associated
with the mobile device identifier, and may provide information that identifies the events to the
server device.
[0026]      Implementations described herein may enable a zone device to identify a mobile
device based on broadcast signaling, thereby enabling the zone device to identify the mobile
device without establishing a communication link with the mobile device.           In this way,

                                               8
implementations described herein may enable identification of mobile devices in a high
throughput scenario. Additionally, implementations described herein may conserve battery,
processor, and/or memory resources of a mobile device when providing identification
information. Additionally, implementations described herein may enable a mobile device to
provide identification information to a zone device without requiring that the mobile device
include a data connection (e.g., an internet connection), and without requiring that the mobile
device provide identification information to a server device, thereby conserving battery,
processor, and/or memory resources of the mobile device.
[0027]     As indicated above, Figs. 1A-1F are provided merely as an example.             Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 1A-1 F.
[0028]     Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment 200 in which systems and/or
methods, described herein, may be implemented. As shown in Fig. 2, environment 200 may
include one or more user devices 210 (hereinafter referred to collectively as "user devices
210," and individually as "user device 210"), one or more proximity beacon devices 220
(hereinafter referred to collectively as "proximity beacon devices 220," and individually as
"proximity beacon device 220"), one or more challenge beacon devices 230 (hereinafter
referred to collectively as "challenge beacon devices 230," and individually as "challenge
beacon device 230"), one or more zone devices 240 (hereinafter referred to collectively as
"zone devices 240," and individually as "zone device 240"), a server device 250, and a
network 260. Devices of environment 200 may interconnect via wired connections, wireless
connections, or a combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0029]     User device 210 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with a user device identifier. For
example, user device 210 may include a communication and/or computing device, such as
a mobile phone (e.g., a smart phone or a radiotelephone), a laptop computer, a tablet
computer, a handheld computer, a gaming device, a wearable communication device (e.g.,
a smart wristwatch, a pair of smart eyeglasses, a smart band, etc.), or a similar type of
device.

                                               9
[0030]       Proximity beacon device 220 includes one or more devices capable of receiving,
generating, storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with a proximity
message. For example, proximity beacon device 220 may include a communication and/or
computing device, such as a wireless personal area network beacon (e.g., a Bluetooth
beacon or a BLE beacon), an NFC beacon, or the like. In some implementations, proximity
beacon device 220 may broadcast proximity messages throughout an identification area,
which may cause user device 210 to launch an identification application.
[0031]       Challenge beacon device 230 includes one or more devices capable of receiving,
generating, storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with a challenge
message. For example, challenge beacon device 230 may include a communication and/or
computing device, such as a wireless personal area network beacon (e.g., a Bluetooth
beacon or a BLE beacon), an NFC beacon, or the like. In some implementations, challenge
beacon device 230 may broadcast challenge messages, including a unique challenge
identifier, throughout an identification area.
[0032]       Zone device 240 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with a response message
and/or an event. For example, zone device 240 may include a computing device, such as a
desktop computer, a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a server device, a mobile phone
(e.g., a smart phone or a radiotelephone) or a similar type of device.             In some
implementations, zone device 240 may receive challenge messages and/or response
messages, and may identify user device 210 and/or challenge beacon device 230 based on
the received messages. In some implementations, zone device 240 may determine an event
associated with user device 210, and may provide, to server device 250, information that
identifies the event.
[0033]       Server device 250 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, storing,
and/or providing information associated with a user. For example, server device 250 may
include a server or a group of servers (e.g., a cloud-based server, an application server, a
content server, a host server, a web server, etc.), a desktop computer, or a similar device.
In some implementations, server device 250 may receive, from zone device 240, information

                                             10
associated with user device 210 and/or an event, and may perform an action based on the
received information (e.g., may assess a fare, may charge an account, may update a profile,
etc.).
[0034]      Network 260 includes one or more wired and/or wireless networks. For example,
network 260 may include a cellular network (e.g., a long-term evolution (LTE) network, a
third generation (3G) network, a code division multiple access (CDMA) network, etc.), a
public land mobile network (PLMN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN),
a metropolitan area network (MAN), a telephone network (e.g., the Public Switched
Telephone Network (PSTN)), a private network, an ad hoc network, an intranet, the Internet,
a fiber optic-based network, a cloud computing network, or the like, and/or a combination of
these or other types of networks.
[0035]     The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in Fig. 2 are
provided as an example. In practice, there may be additional devices and/or networks, fewer
devices and/or networks, different devices and/or networks, or differently arranged devices
and/or networks than those shown in Fig. 2. Furthermore, two or more devices shown in
Fig. 2 may be implemented within a single device, or a single device shown in Fig. 2 may be
implemented as multiple, distributed devices. Additionally, or alternatively, a set of devices
(e.g., one or more devices) of environment 200 may perform one or more functions described
as being performed by another set of devices of environment 200.
[0036]      Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of a device 300. Device 300 may
correspond to user device 210, proximity beacon device 220, challenge beacon device 230,
zone device 240, and/or server device 250.      In some implementations, user device 210,
proximity beacon device 220, challenge beacon device 230, zone device 240, and/or server
device 250 may include one or more devices 300 and/or one or more components of device
300. As shown in Fig. 3, device 300 may include a bus 310, a processor 320, a memory
330, a storage component 340, an input component 350, an output component 360, and a
communication interface 370.
[0037]      Bus 310 includes a component that permits communication               among the
components of device 300.       Processor 320 is implemented in hardware, firmware, or a

                                               11
combination of hardware and software. Processor 320 includes a processor (e.g., a central
processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), and/or an accelerated processing
unit (APU)), a microprocessor, a microcontroller, and/or any processing component (e.g., a
field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and/or an application-specific integrated circuit
(ASIC)) that interprets and/or executes instructions. In some implementations, processor
320 includes one or more processors capable of being programmed to perform a function.
Memory 330 includes a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), and/or
another type of dynamic or static storage device (e.g., a flash memory, a magnetic memory,
and/or an optical memory) that stores information and/or instructions for use by processor
320.
[0038]      Storage component 340 stores information and/or software related to the
operation and use of device 300. For example, storage component 340 may include a hard
disk (e.g., a magnetic disk, an optical disk, a magneto-optic disk, and/or a solid state disk),
a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy disk, a cartridge, a magnetic
tape, and/or another type of non-transitory computer-readable medium, along with a
corresponding drive.
[0039]      Input component 350 includes a component that permits device 300 to receive
information, such as via user input (e.g., a touch screen display, a keyboard, a keypad, a
mouse, a button, a switch, and/or a microphone).         Additionally, or alternatively, input
component 350 may include a sensor for sensing information (e.g., a global positioning
system (GPS) component, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and/or an actuator).            Output
component 360 includes a component that provides output information from device 300 (e.g.,
a display, a speaker, and/or one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)).
[0040]      Communication interface 370 includes a transceiver-like component (e.g., a
transceiver and/or a separate receiver and transmitter) that enables device 300 to
communicate with other devices, such as via a wired connection, a wireless connection, or
a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface 370 may permit
device 300 to receive information from another device and/or provide information to another
device. For example, communication interface 370 may include an Ethernet interface, an

                                                12
optical interface, a coaxial interface, an infrared interface, a radio frequency (RF) interface,
a universal serial bus (USB) interface, a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular network interface, a BLE
interface, or the like.
[0041]      Device 300 may perform one or more processes described herein. Device 300
may perform these processes in response to processor 320 executing software instructions
stored by a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as memory 330 and/or storage
component 340. A computer-readable medium is defined herein as a non-transitory memory
device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or
memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.
[0042]      Software instructions may be read into memory 330 and/or storage component
340 from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication
interface 370. When executed, software instructions stored in memory 330 and/or storage
component 340 may cause processor 320 to perform one or more processes described
herein.   Additionally, or alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in
combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein.
Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of
hardware circuitry and software.
[0043]     The number and arrangement of components shown in Fig. 3 are provided as an
example. In practice, device 300 may include additional components, fewer components,
different components, or differently arranged components than those shown in Fig. 3.
Additionally, or alternatively, a set of components (e.g., one or more components) of device
300 may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of
components of device 300.
[0044]      Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process 400 for device identification using
bandwidth efficient techniques. In some implementations, one or more process blocks of
Fig. 4 may be performed by user device 210 and/or zone device 240.                     In some
implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by another device
or a group of devices separate from or including user device 210 and/or zone device 240,

                                                 13
such as proximity beacon device 220, challenge beacon device 230, and/or server device
250.
[0045]      As shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include receiving a proximity message and
activating a scan mode (block 410).          For example, user device 210 may receive, from
proximity beacon device 220, a proximity message and may activate a scan mode. In some
implementations, proximity beacon device 220 may be associated with an identification area.
An identification area may include a geographic location, such as a location associated with
a transit scenario (e.g., a train station, a subway station, a bus station, an airport, or the like),
and/or a location where access may be controlled and/or monitored, such as an arena, a
venue, a store, a restaurant, a school, or the like.           Additionally, or alternatively, an
identification area may be associated with a vehicle, such as a train, a subway, a bus, a
vessel, an airplane, or the like. In some implementations, proximity beacon device 220 may
be associated with a particular location of an identification area, such as an entrance, an
exit, or the like.
[0046]      In some implementations, proximity beacon device 220 may provide proximity
messages (e.g., may broadcast BLE advertisement mode signals). A proximity message
may cause user device 210 to activate a scan mode. Additionally, user device 210 may
launch or activate an identification application based on receiving a proximity message from
proximity beacon device 220. Additionally, or alternatively, user device 210 may activate a
scan mode to scan for challenge messages that may be broadcast by challenge beacon
devices 230, as described elsewhere herein. By launching or activating the identification
application and/or activating a scan mode based on receiving a proximity message, user
device 210 may conserve processor, memory, and/or battery resources by not scanning for
challenge messages and/or not broadcasting response messages when user device 210 is
not associated with an identification area.
[0047]      In some implementations, proximity beacon device 220 may provide proximity
messages based on a configuration parameter (e.g., a power level, a range, or the like).
Additionally, or alternatively, proximity beacon device 220 may provide proximity messages
to cover a particular portion of an identification area. In some implementations, user device

                                                 14
210 may receive a proximity message, and may determine whether a value (e.g., a received
signal strength indicator (RSSI) value), associated with the proximity message, satisfies a
threshold value, may determine whether a proximity of user device 210 to proximity beacon
device 220 satisfies a threshold proximity, or the like. Additionally, user device 210 may
activate a scan mode based on the value satisfying the threshold value, the proximity
satisfying the threshold proximity, or the like.
[0048]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include receiving a challenge
message and activating a broadcast mode (block 420). For example, user device 210 may
receive, from challenge beacon device 230, a challenge message and may activate a
broadcast mode.        In some implementations, challenge beacon device 230 may be
associated with the identification area, and/or a particular location associated with the
identification area (e.g., a gate, an entrance, an exit, or the like). Additionally, challenge
beacon device 230 may provide challenge messages                 (e.g., may broadcast BLE
advertisement signals), that may be received by user device 210.
[0049]      In some implementations, a challenge message may include a unique challenge
identifier (e.g., a universally unique identifier (UUID), or the like), such as a string of
characters (e.g., alphabetic, numeric, symbols, a combination of alphabetic, numeric, and/or
symbols, or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, a challenge message may include a
beacon identifier that may identify a particular challenge beacon device 230. Additionally, or
alternatively, a challenge message may include a key. As described elsewhere herein, zone
device 240 may use a unique challenge identifier to identify user device 210, identify
challenge beacon device 230, and/or determine an event associated with user device 210.
[0050]      In some implementations, challenge beacon device 230 may dynamically change
a unique challenge identifier. For example, challenge beacon device 230 may broadcast
different unique challenge identifiers based on a time frame, an interval, or the like.
Additionally, or alternatively, challenge beacon device 230 may broadcast different unique
challenge identifiers based on providing a threshold quantity of challenge messages that
include a particular unique challenge identifier. In this way, security associated with a user
device identifier of user device 210 may be improved (e.g., because the user device identifier

                                                 15
may be encrypted using unique challenge identifiers that are dynamic and/or differ based on
location). In some implementations, challenge beacon device 230 may provide challenge
messages based on a configuration parameter (e.g., a configured power, a range, or the
like).
[0051]     In some implementations, user device 210 may activate a broadcast mode based
on receiving a challenge message, and/or based on a received value (e.g., RSSI value)
associated with a challenge message satisfying a threshold value, a proximity of user device
210 to challenge beacon device 230 satisfying a threshold proximity, or the like. In some
implementations, user device 210 may activate a broadcast mode and may broadcast
response messages that may enable zone device 240 to identify a user device identifier of
user device 210, as described elsewhere herein. By activating a broadcast mode based on
a value satisfying a threshold value, or the like, user device 210 may conserve processor,
memory, battery, and/or network resources by preventing signaling when user device 210 is
not located in a particular area of the identification area.
[0052]     As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include receiving the challenge
message and storing a unique challenge identifier (block 430). For example, zone device
240 may receive, from challenge beacon device 230, the challenge message and may store
a unique challenge identifier associated with the challenge message.                   In some
implementations, zone device 240 may receive a challenge message and may identify a
unique challenge identifier based on the challenge message. Additionally, zone device 240
may relate the unique challenge identifier to a particular challenge beacon device 230 (e.g.,
based on received information, based on a beacon identifier, or the like). Additionally, zone
device 240 may store (e.g., in a data structure) information that identifies the unique
challenge identifier and/or relates the unique challenge identifier to the particular challenge
beacon device 230. In this way, zone device 240 may receive, from user device 210, a
response message, and may determine a user device identifier and/or an event associated
with user device 210 based on the stored information, as described below.
[0053]     As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include providing a response
message (block 440). For example, user device 210 may provide, to zone device 240, a

                                                16
response message (e.g., a BLE advertisement signal) based on activating the broadcast
mode. In some implementations, the response message may include a user device identifier
(e.g., an identifier that identifies user device 210, a user of user device 210, an account
associated with user device 210, or the like).      Additionally, the response message may
include the unique challenge identifier (e.g., associated with challenge beacon device 230).
Additionally, or alternatively, the response message may include a key.
[0054]      In some implementations, user device 210 may encrypt the user device identifier
using the unique challenge identifier (e.g., using the unique challenge identifier as a key for
an encryption algorithm, a cryptographic algorithm, a challenge-response mechanism, or the
like). Additionally, user device 210 and zone device 240 may use the same algorithm when
encrypting and/or decrypting the user device identifier using the unique challenge identifier,
thereby enabling zone device 240 to determine the user device identifier, as described
elsewhere herein. In some implementations, user device 210 may include an identifier (e.g.,
that identifies challenge beacon device 230) in a response message, and zone device 240
may identify challenge beacon device 230 based on the response message. Additionally,
zone device 240 may identify a unique challenge identifier associated with challenge beacon
device 230 (e.g., based on stored information), and may decrypt the user device identifier
using the unique challenge identifier.     By encrypting the user device identifier using the
unique challenge identifier, user device 210 may improve security of the user device
identifier. For example, the unique challenge identifier may change based on a time interval,
and/or may differ between challenge beacon devices 230.
[0055]      Alternatively, user device 210 may encrypt the user device identifier and/or the
unique challenge identifier using a key (e.g., a key shared by user device 210 and zone
device 240). For example, user device 210 may combine the user device identifier and the
unique challenge identifier, and may encrypt the combined identifier. Alternatively, user
device 210 may encrypt the user device identifier and the unique challenge identifier
separately.
[0056]       In some implementations, user device 210 may broadcast response messages
for a threshold amount of time (e.g., may activate broadcast mode for the threshold amount

                                               17
of time). For example, user device 210 may broadcast response messages for ten seconds,
thirty seconds, or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, user device 210 may broadcast a
threshold quantity of response messages. Additionally, or alternatively, user device 210 may
broadcast response messages based on receiving additional challenge messages from
challenge beacon device 230, and/or based on receiving proximity messages from proximity
beacon device 220. For example, user device 210 may determine that user device 210 is
located within and/or nearby the identification area, and may broadcast response messages
based on being located within and/or nearby the identification area.
[0057]     In some implementations, user device 210 may broadcast response messages at
a particular time interval (e.g., every 1Oms, 25ms, 30ms, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively,
user device 210 may adjust a time interval between providing response messages. For
example, user device 210 may provide a first response message, may provide a second
response message 10 milliseconds after the first response message, may provide a third
response message 20 milliseconds after the second response message, and so on. In this
way, user device 210 may reduce a quantity of collisions with other response messages
provided by other user devices 210. For example, assume that a particular quantity of user
devices 210 are associated with the identification area and are broadcasting response
messages. In this case, zone device 240 may fail to receive particular response messages
based on collisions. By adjusting a time interval between response messages, user device
210 may reduce a quantity of response message collisions, thereby conserving battery,
processor, and/or memory resources of user device 210 and/or zone device 240, and/or
conserving network resources.
[0058]     In some implementations, user device 210 may receive an additional challenge
message from another challenge beacon device 230 associated with the identification area,
and may provide another response message based on the additional challenge message.
Additionally, or alternatively, user device 210 may receive an additional challenge message
from a particular challenge beacon device 230, and may provide another response message
based on the additional challenge message.

                                                 18
[0059]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include receiving the response
message and determining a user device identifier (block 450), and determining an event
associated with the user device identifier (block 460). For example, zone device 240 may
receive, from user device 210, the response message, and may determine a user device
identifier based on the response message. In some implementations, zone device 240 may
decrypt the response message using the unique challenge identifier and an algorithm (e.g.,
the same algorithm used by user device 210 to encrypt the response message), and may
identify the user device identifier.
[0060]      In some implementations, zone device 240 may determine an event associated
with the user device identifier. In some implementations, an event may include a movement
of user device 210 in association with the identification area, an association of user device
210 with a particular area of the identification area, or the like. For example, an event may
include an entry of user device 210 through a ticketing gate, an exit of user device 210
through a ticketing gate, or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, an event may include a
duration of time in which user device 210 is associated with one or more identification areas.
[0061]      In some implementations, zone device 240 may determine an event associated
with user device 210 based on an identifier associated with challenge beacon device 230
(e.g., a unique challenge identifier, or the like). For example, zone device 240 may decrypt
an encrypted identifier using a particular unique challenge identifier. Additionally, zone
device 240 may identify a particular challenge beacon device 230 based on the unique
challenge identifier (e.g., may identify challenge beacon device 230 based on stored
information). For example, zone device 240 may identify a unique challenge identifier based
on a response message, and may correlate the unique challenge identifier with a particular
challenge beacon device 230 (e.g., a challenge beacon device 230 associated with an
entrance to a ticketing gate).     In this case, zone device 240 may determine that a user
entered through a ticketing gate based on the unique challenge identifier.
[0062]      In some implementations, zone device 240 may receive multiple response
messages that include multiple encrypted identifiers (e.g., user device identifiers that were
encrypted using various unique challenge identifiers), and may determine multiple events

                                                19
based on the response messages. For example, assume that a user moves through an
entrance and an exit associated with a ticketing gate. Further, assume that a first challenge
beacon device 230 is associated with the entrance of the ticketing gate, and a second
challenge beacon device 230 is associated with the exit of the ticketing gate. In this case,
user device 210 may provide a response message that includes a first encrypted identifier
(e.g., the user device identifier encrypted using a first unique challenge identifier associated
with the first challenge beacon device 230), and may provide another response message
that includes a second encrypted identifier (e.g., the user device identifier encrypted using a
second unique challenge identifier associated with the second challenge beacon device
230).    Additionally, zone device 240 may receive the response messages, and may
determine an entrance event and an exit event based on the response messages.
[0063]      In some implementations, zone device 240 may determine an event based on a
response message and context information. For example, context information may include
a time, a date, a location (e.g., based on GPS coordinates), a velocity, an acceleration, an
odometer value, a speedometer value, etc. As an example, assume that zone device 240 is
associated with a vehicle (e.g., a bus). In this case, zone device 240 may receive context
information associated with the vehicle (e.g., an odometer reading, a GPS coordinate, a
velocity, or the like), and may determine an event based on the context information.
[0064]      For example, assume that a user enters a vehicle at a particular location. In this
case, user device 210 may provide a response message based on the user entering the
vehicle, and zone device 240 may determine an entrance event based on the response
message.      Additionally, zone device 240 may correlate the entrance event with context
information (e.g., a time, an odometer reading, a location, etc.). Additionally, assume the
user exits the vehicle at another location. In this case, user device 210 may provide another
response message based on the user exiting the vehicle, and zone device 240 may
determine an exit event based on the response message. Additionally, user device 210 may
correlate the exit event with additional context information and may compare context
information associated with the entrance event and context information associated with the
exit event.

                                                20
[0065]      In some implementations, zone device 240 may determine an event based on
information received from other zone devices 240. For example, assume that multiple zone
devices 240 are associated with an identification area. In this case, user device 210 may
broadcast a response message, and each zone device 240 may receive the response
message. Additionally, each zone device 240 may determine a value associated with the
response message (e.g., an RSSI value), and may provide the value to a particular zone
device 240.      In some implementations, the particular zone device 240 may receive the
values, and may determine a position (or positions) of user device 210 in association with
the identification area based on the values (e.g., based on performing a triangulation-based
calculation).     In this way, zone device 240 may more accurately determine an event
associated with a user device identifier (e.g., may more accurately determine a movement
of a user in association with the identification area).
[0066]      In some implementations, zone device 240 may receive, from another device such
as an analysis device (e.g., a video analysis device, or the like), information that identifies a
quantity of users that are associated with the identification area. For example, zone device
240 may receive information that identifies that a particular quantity of users entered through
a ticketing gate for a particular time frame, or the like. Additionally, zone device 240 may
compare the information and information identifying a quantity of user device identifiers (e.g.,
determined by zone device 240 for the particular time frame). In some implementations,
zone device 240 may determine a discrepancy between a quantity of identified users (e.g.,
identified by the analysis system) and a quantity of user device identifiers identified by zone
device 240, thereby indicating that particular users did not provide identification information.
Additionally, zone device 240 may provide a message to another device that identifies the
discrepancy, thereby enabling a user (e.g., an enforcement officer) to perform an audit.
[0067]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include providing information that
identifies the event associated with the user device identifier to permit and/or cause an action
to be performed (block 470). For example, zone device 240 may provide, to server device
250, information that identifies an event associated with a user device identifier to permit
and/or cause server device 250 to perform an action.          In some implementations, server
device 250 may store validation rules and/or may process events associated with user device

                                               21
210 (e.g., based on a user device identifier). For example, server device 250 may charge
an account associated with user device 210, may update a profile associated with user
device 210, or the like. In some implementations, sever device 250 may receive, from a
service provider system (e.g., another server device, or the like), location information
associated with user device 210.       Additionally, server device 250 may use the location
information to identify a location associated with user device 210. Additionally, server device
250 may compare the location information and information associated with the identification
area. For example, server device 250 may validate that user device 210 is associated with
the identification area. Additionally, server device 250 may charge an account based on the
validation.
[0068]      In some implementations, zone device 240 may provide information that identifies
an event associated with the user device identifier to permit server device 250 to identify a
displacement trajectory associated with user device 210. A displacement trajectory may
include a travel trajectory between a first location and a second location. For example, a
displacement trajectory may include a travel trajectory between an entry location and an exit
location. As an example, assume that user device 210 is associated with an event at a first
location (e.g., an entry to a transit station), and is associated with an event at a second
location (e.g., an exit associated with another transit station). In this case, server device 250
may identify a displacement trajectory, such as a travel route, of user device 210 based on
the events.
[0069]      As another example, server device 250 may identify a displacement trajectory of
user device 210 in association with a particular identification area. For example, server
device 250 may determine a displacement trajectory of user device 210 is association with
an entrance and an exit of a transit station, or the like. Additionally, server device 250 may
perform an action (e.g., charge an account) based on the displacement trajectory.
[0070]      In some implementations, zone device 240 may provide information that identifies
an event based on determining the event. Additionally, or alternatively, zone device 240
may provide information that identifies multiple events based on determining that the events
are associated with a particular sequence. For example, assume that a user is located near

                                                22
a particular challenge beacon device 230 (e.g., associated with an entrance to a ticketing
gate), but does not enter through the ticketing gate.      In this case, user device 210 may
receive, from challenge beacon device 230, a challenge message, and may provide a
response message to zone device 240. Thus, zone device 240 may determine an event
(e.g., an entrance event), despite the user not actually entering the ticketing gate. Assume
that zone device 240 does not determine a corresponding event (e.g., an exit event). In this
case, zone device 240 may not provide information that identifies the event. Alternatively,
zone device 240 may provide information that identifies the event based on receiving another
response message (e.g., associated with an exit event). Thus, zone device 240 may provide,
to server device 250, information that identifies an entrance event and an exit event (e.g., in
a particular sequence) based on determining the particular sequence of events, which may
enable more accurate event identification (e.g., when the user actually enters through the
ticketing gate).
[0071]      As another example, assume that a user enters a vehicle (e.g., a bus). In this
case, user device 210 may receive, from challenge beacon device 230, a challenge
message, and may provide a response message to zone device 240. Zone device 240 may
determine an event, such as that the user has entered the vehicle, and may determine
context information (e.g., a time, a location, an odometer reading, etc.). Additionally, assume
that the user remains in the vehicle for a particular amount of time. In this case, user device
210 may provide a particular quantity of response messages to zone device 240, and zone
device 240 may determine additional events (e.g., indicating that the user is still inside the
vehicle). Additionally, the user may exit the vehicle, and user device 210 may fail to be within
proximity of zone device 240. Additionally, zone device 240 may determine that a particular
amount of time has elapsed (e.g., without receiving a response message from user device
210), and may determine an event (e.g., an exit event) based on the particular amount of
time (e.g., because zone device 240 fails to receive response messages).
[0072]      Additionally, zone device 240 may determine an event (e.g., an exit event) based
on the response message. Alternatively, zone device 240 may fail to receive a response
message from user device 210 (e.g., a response message that indicates that user device
210 is still within the vehicle), and may determine an event (e.g., an exit event). In either

                                               23
case, zone device 240 may provide, to server device 250, information that identifies multiple
events (e.g., an enter event and an exit event) based on determining the multiple events,
thereby enabling server device 250 to, for example, calculate a fare.
[0073]      In some implementations, zone device 240 may provide information that identifies
an event based on receiving a particular quantity of response messages, based on
determining a threshold quantity of events, based on a time interval, or the like. Additionally,
or alternatively, zone device 240 may store information that identifies events (e.g., may buffer
events), and may provide the information to server device 250. For example, assume that
zone device 240 is associated with an intermittent network connection. As an example, zone
device 240 may be associated with a vehicle.        In this case, zone device 240 may store
information that identifies events, and may provide the information based on establishing a
network connection.
[0074]      In some implementations, server device 250 may provide, to user device 210,
information that identifies that an action was performed (e.g., a user account was charged).
Additionally, user device 210 may provide, for display via a user interface, information that
identifies that user device 210 was identified and/or that an action was performed by server
device 250. In this way, user device 210 may provide information for display that may enable
validation (e.g., by an enforcement officer).
[0075]      Implementations described herein may enable zone device 240 to identify user
device 210 without establishing a communication link with user device 210.                Thus,
implementations described herein may enable user identification in a high throughput area
in a secure and convenient manner. Implementations described herein may enable an action
to be performed based on an event associated with user device 210 without requiring that
user device 210 provide information that identifies the event to server device 250, thereby
conserving battery, processor, and/or memory resources of user device 210.
[0076]      Although Fig. 4 shows example blocks of process 400, in some implementations,
process 400 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 4. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 400 may be performed in parallel.

                                                24
[0077]      Fig. 5 is an interaction diagram of an example interaction 500 of example
operations capable of being performed by one or more devices of Fig. 2. As shown in Fig.
5, and by reference number 505, proximity beacon device 220 may provide, to user device
210, a proximity message that may cause user device 210 to launch or activate an
identification application. As shown by reference number 510, user device 210 may activate
a scan mode based on the proximity message. For example, user device 210 may launch
or activate the identification application and may scan for broadcast challenge messages.
As shown by reference number 515, challenge beacon device 230 may broadcast a
challenge message, which may include a unique challenge identifier. As shown, zone device
240 may receive the challenge message, may identify the unique challenge identifier, and
may store the unique challenge identifier. As further shown, user device 210 may receive
the challenge message, and may identify the unique challenge identifier.
[0078]      As shown by reference number 520, user device 210 may activate a broadcast
mode based on the challenge message, and may provide a response message.                     For
example, user device 210 may broadcast (e.g., broadcast BLE advertisement signals)
response messages that include the user device identifier. For example, user device 210
may encrypt the user device identifier (e.g., using the unique challenge identifier and an
encryption algorithm) to generate an encrypted identifier.
[0079]      As shown by reference number 525, zone device 240 may determine a user device
identifier. For example, zone device 240 may receive the response message, and may
decrypt the encrypted identifier (e.g., using the unique challenge identifier and the encryption
algorithm). As shown by reference number 530, zone device 240 may determine an event
associated with the user device identifier. For example, zone device 240 may determine the
unique challenge identifier, and may identify challenge beacon device 230 that is associated
with the unique challenge identifier (e.g., based on stored information). Additionally, zone
device 240 may determine an event based on the particular challenge beacon device 230
that is associated with the unique challenge identifier (e.g., challenge beacon device 230
may be associated with a ticketing gate entrance).

                                                25
[0080]      As shown by reference number 535, zone device 240 may provide, to server
device 250, information that identifies the event and the user device identifier associated with
the event. Server device 250 may perform an action based on the information, such as, for
example, charging an account associated with user device 210.
[0081]      While a particular series of operations and/or interactions have been described
above with regard to Fig. 5, the order of operation and/or interactions may be modified in
other implementations. Further, non-dependent operations may be performed in parallel.
[0082]      Figs. 6A-6C are diagrams of an example implementation 600 relating to example
process 400 shown in Fig. 4. Figs. 6A-6C show an example of device identification using
bandwidth efficient techniques.
[0083]      As shown in Fig. 6A, assume that a user enters a transit station (e.g., a bus
station). As shown by reference number 610, proximity beacon device 220 may provide, to
user device 210, a proximity message, that may cause user device 210 to launch an
identification application and/or activate a scan mode. As an example, assume that the user
is commuting via a vehicle (e.g., a bus), and that a fare may be charged to an account of the
user.
[0084]      As shown in Fig. 6B, and by reference number 620, challenge beacon device 230
may broadcast, throughout an identification area (e.g., the vehicle), a challenge message
that may be received by user device 210 and zone device 240. Assume that the challenge
message includes a particular unique challenge identifier. As shown by reference number
630, user device 210 may provide, to zone device 240, a response message that includes
the user device identifier (e.g., as an encrypted identifier). As shown by reference number
640, zone device 240 may determine the user device identifier (e.g., "49SGHA"), and may
determine an event (e.g., that the user has entered the vehicle) associated with the user
device identifier. As further shown, zone device 240 may correlate context information and
the information that identifies the event and the user device identifier. As shown, zone device
240 may store context information, such as a time, an odometer reading, a location (e.g.,
GPS coordinates), and/or other context information (not shown).           Assume that the user
remains inside the vehicle for a particular amount of time. In this case, challenge beacon

                                                26
device 230 may provide additional challenge messages (e.g., including the same unique
challenge identifier or different unique challenge identifiers), and user device 210 may
provide additional response messages to zone device 240. In this way, zone device 240
may determine additional events that may indicate that user device 210 is inside the vehicle.
[0085]      As shown in Fig. 6C, assume that the user exits the vehicle. As shown by
reference number 650, challenge beacon device 230 may provide a challenge message to
zone device 240. As shown, the user may exit the vehicle, and thus, user device 210 may
fail to receive the challenge message and/or may fail to provide a response message to zone
device 240. As shown by reference number 660, zone device 240 may determine an event,
such as that user device 210 is no longer associated with the identification area (e.g., inside
the vehicle). For example, zone device 240 may determine that user device 210 is no longer
associated with the identification area based on not receiving a response message (or
response messages) from user device 210. Alternatively, zone device 240 may determine
that user device 210 is no longer associated with the identification area based on receiving
a response message that includes a unique challenge identifier associated with another
challenge beacon device 230 (not shown) associated with exiting the vehicle.
[0086]      As further shown in Fig. 6C, zone device 240 may correlate the event and context
information, such as an exit time, an updated odometer reading (e.g., indicating that the
vehicle has traveled 15 miles since the user entered the vehicle), and an updated location
(e.g., GPS coordinates associated with a location where the user exited the vehicle). In this
way, zone device 240 may provide information, that identifies the event (or events), and
context information to server device 250. Additionally, server device 250 may perform an
action (e.g., charge a user account) based on the context information and information that
identifies the event(s). For example, server device 250 may charge a fare based on the
distance travelled by the vehicle, or the like.
[0087]      As indicated above, Figs. 6A-6C are provided merely as an example.           Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 6A-6C.

                                                27
[0088]      Figs. 7A and 7B are diagrams of an example implementation 700 relating to
example process 400 shown in Fig. 4.           Figs. 7A and 7B show an example of device
identification using bandwidth efficient techniques.
[0089]      As shown in Fig. 7A, assume that a user is associated with an identification area
(e.g., is located within a transit station). As shown by reference number 710, user device
210 may broadcast a response message throughout the identification area (e.g., based on
a challenge message received from challenge beacon device 230 (not shown)). As shown,
the identification area may include multiple zone devices 240, which may each receive the
response message. Assume that each zone device 240 determines a value associated with
the response message. For example, each zone device 240 may measure an RSSI value
associated with the response message.
[0090]      As shown in Fig. 7B, and by reference number 720, zone device 240-1 may
provide, to zone device 240-2, a message that includes a measured RSSI value associated
with the response message.        Additionally, as shown, zone device 240-3 may provide a
message that includes a measured RSSI value associated with the response message.
Zone device 240-2 may receive the measured RSSI values, and may perform a triangulation
based calculation using the measured RSSI values to determine a position, location, etc. of
user device 210 in association with the identification area. Zone devices 240 may repeat the
above process to more accurately determine a position of user device 210 in association
with the identification area, thereby enabling a more accurate determination of an event or
events.
[0091]      As indicated above, Figs. 7A and 7B are provided merely as an example. Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 7A and
7B.
[0092]      Implementations described herein may enable a zone device to quickly identify a
user device without requiring that the zone device establish a communication link with the
user device, thereby conserving battery, processor, and/or memory resources of a user
device. Additionally, implementations described herein may enable a user to be identified,
without requiring that the user carry a dedicated device or perform a physical operation.

                                               28
Additionally, implementations described herein may enable a user to be identified quickly
and without requiring that the user's progress be impeded. Additionally, implementations
described herein may enable a user device to provide an encrypted user device identifier
that may depend on a location and/or time, thereby increasing the security of the user device
identifier.  Thereby, implementations described herein may provide a convenient, and
scalable solution for high traffic areas where user identification may be beneficial.
[0093]      While some implementations described herein are described in terms of using BLE
advertisement mode signaling,         implementations described herein may be used in
conjunction with other types of communication methods.
[0094]      The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description, but is not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice
of the implementations.
[0095]      As used herein, the term component is intended to be broadly construed as
hardware, firmware, and/or a combination of hardware and software.
[0096]      Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As
used herein, satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold,
more than the threshold, higher than the threshold, greater than or equal to the threshold,
less than the threshold, fewer than the threshold, lower than the threshold, less than or equal
to the threshold, equal to the threshold, etc.
[0097]      Certain user interfaces have been described herein and/or shown in the figures.
A user interface may include a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, a
text-based user interface, etc. A user interface may provide information for display. In some
implementations, a user may interact with the information, such as by providing input via an
input component of a device that provides the user interface for display.              In some
implementations, a user interface may be configurable by a device and/or a user (e.g., a user
may change the size of the user interface, information provided via the user interface, a
position of information provided via the user interface, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, a

                                              29
user interface may be pre-configured to a standard configuration, a specific configuration
based on a type of device on which the user interface is displayed, and/or a set of
configurations based on capabilities and/or specifications associated with a device on which
the user interface is displayed.
[0098]      It will be apparent that systems and/or methods, described herein, may be
implemented in different forms of hardware, firmware, or a combination of hardware and
software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these
systems and/or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus, the operation and
behavior of the systems and/or methods were described herein without reference to specific
software code-it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to
implement the systems and/or methods based on the description herein.
[0099]      Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and/or
disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of
possible implementations. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not
specifically recited in the claims and/or disclosed in the specification.      Although each
dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim, the disclosure of
possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other
claim in the claim set.
[00100]     No element, act, or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or
essential unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the articles "a" and "an"
are intended to include one or more items, and may be used interchangeably with "one or
more." Furthermore, as used herein, the term "set" is intended to include one or more items
(e.g., related items, unrelated items, a combination of related and unrelated items, etc.), and
may be used interchangeably with "one or more." Where only one item is intended, the term
"one" or similar language is used. Also, as used herein, the terms "has," "have," "having," or
the like are intended to be open-ended terms. Further, the phrase "based on" is intended to
mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise.
[00101]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and

                                              30
"comprising" will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated integer or step, or group of
integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other integer or step, or group of integers or
steps.
[00102]   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                    31
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A device, including:
        one or more processors that:
                receive, from a beacon device, a first message including a first identifier,
                        the first identifier being associated with the beacon device;
                receive, from a user device, a second message including a second identifier,
                        the second identifier being associated with the user device and
                        encrypted based on the first identifier associated with the beacon
                        device;
                determine the second identifier based on the second message and the first
        identifier including using the first identifier to decrypt the encrypted second identifier
        received from the user device; and
                receive the second message from the user device without establishing a
        communication link with the user device.
2.      A device according to claim 1, where the second message is a wireless personal area
network advertisement signal.
3.      A device according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the one or more processors
further:
        receive, from the user device, a third message including the second identifier and a
third identifier, the third identifier being associated with another beacon device;
        determine another event associated with the second identifier based on the third
message and the third identifier; and
        where the one or more processors, when providing the information that identifies the
second identifier and the event:
                provide the information based on the event and the other event.
4.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:

                                               32
       determine context information based on the first identifier; and
       where the one or more processors, when determining the event:
               determine the event based on the context information.
5.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the device is a first
device; and
       where the one or more processors further:
               determine a value associated with the first message;
               receive, from a second device, another value associated with the first
       message, the second device to determine the other value based on receiving the first
       message; and
               where the one or more processors, when determining the event:
                      determine the event based on the value and the other value.
6.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:
       identify an algorithm associated with the user device,
               the user device to encrypt the second identifier using the algorithm; and
       where the one or more processors, when determining the second identifier:
               determine the second identifier using the algorithm to decrypt the second
       identifier.
7.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:
       determine a location of the user device; and
       where the one or more processors, when determining the event:
               determine the event based on the location.
8.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:

                                                   33
       determine an event associated with the second identifier based on the first identifier;
and
       provide, to another device, information that identifies the second identifier and the
event to permit the other device to identify a displacement trajectory associated with the user
device.
9.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
       one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a device,
cause the one or more processors to:
               receive, from a beacon device, a first message including a first identifier,
                       the first identifier being associated with the beacon device;
               receive, from a user device, a second message including a second identifier,
                       the second identifier being associated with the user device and
                       encrypted based on the first identifier associated with the beacon
                       device;
               determine the second identifier based on the second message and the first
       identifier including using the first identifier to decrypt the encrypted second identifier
       received from the user device; and
               receive the second message from the user device without establishing a
       communication link with the user device.
10.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 9, where the one or
more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or
more processors to:
       determine a location of the user device in association with an identification area based
on the second message; and
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
determine the event, further cause the one or more processors to:
               determine the event based on the location.

                                                34
11.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to either claim 9 or claim 10,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
        determine a velocity associated with a vehicle,
               the beacon device being associated with the vehicle; and
        where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
determine the event, further cause the one or more processors to:
               determine the event based on the velocity.
12.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 9 to 11,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
        determine a plurality of user device identifiers associated with a plurality of user
devices, the plurality of user devices including the user device;
        receive information that identifies a quantity of users in association with an
identification area;
        compare the quantity of users and the plurality of user device identifiers; and
        provide information to a security device based on comparing the quantity of users and
the plurality of user device identifiers.
13.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 9 to 12,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
        determine a first location of a vehicle based on the second message;
        receive, from the user device, a third message;
        determine a second location of the vehicle based on the third message; and
        where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
determine the event, further cause the one or more processors to:
               determine the event based on the first location and the second location.

                                               35
14.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 9 to 13,
where the device is a first device; and
       where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors,
further cause the one or more processors to:
               determine a received signal strength value associated with the second
message;
               receive, from a second device, information that identifies another received
       signal strength value associated with the second message, the second device to
       determine the other received signal strength value based on the second message;
       and
               where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
       determine the event, further cause the one or more processors to:
                      determine the event based on the received signal strength value and
               the other received signal strength value.
15.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 9 to 14,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
        receive, from the user device, a third message;
       determine another event based on the third message;
       determine a sequence of the event and the other event; and
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to provide
the information, further cause the one or more processors to:
               provide the information based on the sequence of the event and the other
event.
16.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 9 to 15,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
       determine an event based on the second identifier; and

                                                  36
        provide, to another device, information that identifies the second identifier and the
event to cause an action to be performed.
17.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 9 to 16,
where the user device provides the second message using wireless personal area network
advertisement mode signaling.
18.     A computer-implemented method, including:
        receiving, by a device and from a first beacon device, a first message;
        activating, by the device, a scan mode based on the first message;
        receiving, by the device and from a second beacon device, a second message based
on the scan mode;
        determining, by the device, a first identifier based on the second message,
                the first identifier being associated with the second beacon device; and
        providing, by the device and to another device, a third message including a second
identifier,
                the second identifier being associated with the device and encrypted based on
the first identifier associated with the second beacon device,
                the other device to determine the second identifier based on the first identifier
including using the first identifier to decrypt the encrypted second identifier provided by the
device, and
                the device to provide the third message to the other device without establishing
        a communication link with the other device.
19.     A method according to claim 18, further including:
        determining that a value associated with the second message satisfies a threshold
value; and
        where providing the third message includes:
                 providing the third message based on the value satisfying the threshold value.
20.     A method according to either claim 18 or 19, further including:

                                               37
       providing a fourth message including the second identifier; and
       providing a fifth message including the second identifier,
               a first time interval between the third message and the fourth message being
       different than a second time interval between the fourth message and the fifth
       message.
21.    A method according to any one of claims 18 to 20, further including:
       determining that a value associated with the first message satisfies a threshold value;
and
       where activating the scan mode includes:
               activating the scan mode based on the value satisfying the threshold value.
22.    A method according to any one of claims 18 to 21, further including:
       providing a plurality of response messages for a threshold amount of time based on
the second message, the plurality of response messages including the third message.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
