  ABSTRACT
  Disclosed are systems and methods for supporting and mounting a gutter at a building.
  Also disclosed are spacers to provide an overflow gap between the building and the
5 gutter.
   Q'AAF  1

                                                 -1
                    GUTTER SUPPORT AND MOUNTING ASSEMBLY
                                          Technical Field
           Disclosed are components for a gutter used with buildings and the like, and an
 5 associated guttering assembly, mounting method and system. Also described is a
   mounting assembly for a gutter. This application is also a divisional application of
   Australian application No. 2015213318, the contents of which are herein incorporated by
   cross-reference.
10                                        Background Art
           Channel-shaped guttering can be relatively time consuming to mount to a
   building. To address this, WO 2004/092509 discloses a mounting strip for channel
   shaped guttering (the mounting strip is referred to as a "strip" in WO 2004/092509). The
   mounting strip of WO 2004/092509, the contents of which are herein incorporated by
15 cross-reference, can improve installation efficiency in that it can enable the rapid
   configuring of a fall line without requiring the use of a string line. This can then ensure
   that water in the guttering is properly directed at a desired fall angle to a down pipe.
           Channel-shaped guttering is typically cantilever mounted to a fascia located
   adjacent to and under a building roof. Prior to the mounting strip of WO 2004/092509, to
20 support channel-shaped guttering and to maintain the channel shape/structure a series of
   separately spaced support brackets have been employed. Support brackets in the form of
   straps are known that are either externally or internally mounted with respect to a gutter
   body. In either case, a proximal portion of each such strap must be screwed or nailed to a
   suitable support of the building (usually the fascia). This in itself can be time consuming
25 and, once a roof has been installed, access to this proximal portion of the strap can be
   quite difficult.
           In some more recent forms of guttering, the outer side of the gutter is arranged to
   be higher than the inner side of the gutter which is adjacent the building. Whilst these
   "high front" gutters are often preferred as they are more aesthetically pleasing as they
30 effectively conceal the fixing arrangement, they do present problems in that if the gutter
   is blocked there is a tendency for water to overflow on the inner side of the gutter and
   flow into the building.
    Q'AAF  1

                                                  -2
                                      Summary of the Disclosure
           According to a first aspect there is disclosed a support rod for a channel-shaped
   gutter for a building, the rod comprising a first end that is adapted for mounting at or
   adjacent to the building, and a second opposite end that is adapted for engaging and
 5 supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the gutter is positioned at the building,
   wherein the channel-shaped gutter is mountable to the building via support assembly, and
   wherein the rod first end is adapted for insertion through an aperture defined in support
   assembly and, once inserted, to be manoeuvrable so as to be interferingly retained behind
   a portion of the support assembly, the support assembly comprising an attachment
10 section which is attachable to the building and a gutter mounting section in which a series
   of spaced apertures are defined, each for the receipt therethrough of a respective rod first
   end, and wherein each rod first end is retained between inwardly facing walls of each of
   the gutter and gutter mounting section.
           The employment of a rod, as opposed to straps, to support an outer portion of the
15 gutter when the gutter is positioned at the building can help to facilitate the use of a
   simple and expedient gutter-to-building support assembly (such as the mounting strip
   disclosed in WO 2004/092509). In addition, such a rod can be simply fabricated and can
   then be easily manipulated in use. The use of a rod can also allow for its easy detachment
   after installation (eg. for gutter cleaning, servicing, maintenance etc).
20         Also disclosed is an elongate support for a channel-shaped gutter for a building,
   the support comprising a first end that is adapted for self-securing at or adjacent to the
   building without the use of an additional fastener, and a second opposite end that is
   adapted for engaging and supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the gutter is
   positioned at the building.
25         The elongate support may take the form of a rod, although a bar, tube etc might
   instead be used. In any case, the support can be self-secured at or adjacent to the building
   without requiring the use of an additional, separate fastener (such as screws, nails,
   adhesive etc). This can again result in the simple and expedient supporting of a gutter,
   and can allow for easy rod detachment after installation.
30         When, for example, such a rod is employed with a rapid gutter-to-building
   support assembly (such as the mounting strip disclosed in WO 2004/092509) a guttering
   assembly, and mounting method and system, can be provided that offer substantial
   installation efficiencies and expediencies over existing gutter mounting straps.
    Q'AAF  1

            In one form the rod first end can be adapted for self-securing location at a
   structure located at or adjacent to the building. For example, the rod first end can be
   inserted through an aperture defined in the structure and, once inserted, can be
   interferingly retained within the structure. In this regard, such an aperture can be
 5 provided in one of a support assembly (e.g. mounting strip or snap clip), a fascia forming
   part of the building, or in the gutter itself
           In any case, to adapt the rod first end and render it suitable for eg. self-secure
   mounting, a free end of the rod can be bent to define a type of tight loop configuration
   that projects laterally from a remainder of the rod. In this regard, a free end portion of the
10 rod can be bent back to closely face an adjacent part of the rod, and the adjacent part can
   project laterally from the rod remainder. This configuration can then adapt the rod first
   end for mounting without requiring the use of a separate fastener.
           For example, when the channel-shaped gutter is mounted to the building via a
   mounting strip (such as that disclosed in WO 2004/092509) the rod first end can be
15 adapted for location at the mounting strip after having been passed through an aperture
   defined in this mounting strip. Once inserted, the rod first end can be manoeuvred so as
   to be interferingly retained behind a portion of the mounting strip.
            Such interfering retention can occur, for example, by way of frictional
   interference, or the rod first end can be push-fitted up into a retained position. It may
20 alternatively occur by an interlocking of the rod first end with the mounting strip. Also, it
   may rather be that a region defined behind the mounting strip for accommodating the rod
   first end is spacious with respect to an external dimension of the rod first end and yet,
   because of the position the rod first end assumes once inserted, it can still be interferingly
   (and self-securingly) retained by the mounting strip (eg. located behind an outer wall
25 portion thereof).
            To facilitate both gutter and rod retention, the support assembly may comprise
   both an attachment section which is attachable to the building and a gutter mounting
   section in which a series of spaced apertures are defined. Each aperture may then receive
   therethrough a respective rod first end. Once a gutter inner wall has been retained
30 between the attachment and gutter mounting sections, each rod first end can thereafter be
   interferingly retained (eg. by being moved or pushed up) between inwardly facing walls
   of each of the gutter and gutter mounting section. Advantageously, the gutter mounting
   section apertures can also enable access to the attachment section to initially allow the
    Q'AAV  1

                                                 -4
   support assembly to be fastened to the building (eg. by way of a separate fastener such as
   a screw, nail etc). In other words, the apertures can provide a dual function.
            To adapt the rod second end for engaging and supporting an outer portion of the
   gutter, an opposing free end portion of the rod can also be bent, however, in this case
 5 may be bent to define more of an open loop configuration thereat. Then, when the
   channel-shaped gutter is of a type comprising a bent back lip at an in-use distal edge
   thereof, the rod second end may accordingly be shaped so that it can be interferingly
   retained within and under this lip. The bending of the second free end of the rod can be
   adjusted and varied to accommodate different bent back lip configurations of differing
10 channel-shaped gutters.
            In the case where a gutter mounting strip (as referred to above) is employed to
   mount the gutter to a building (eg. where the mounting strip is mounted to a fascia
   located adjacent to a roof of the building) a mounting strip can be employed that has a
   generally U-shaped end profile (eg. to allow the mounting strip to be formed by rolling,
15 extrusion and/or bending of eg. a single sheet or plate of metal material). One stem of the
   U-shape can define the attachment section and the other stem can define the gutter
   mounting section. The space between the sections can then define a recess into which an
   in-use internal wall of the gutter can be received for mounting the gutter to the building.
   The apertures in the gutter mounting section can thus open onto this recess so that, after a
20 rod first end has been passed through a respective aperture, it can then be manoeuvred to
   be located in the recess for self-securing retention between the gutter mounting section
   and the gutter internal wall.
            To aid with retention of the gutter internal wall in the mounting strip, projections
   can be defined on the gutter mounting section which extend into the recess. These
25 projections can be adapted for engaging an elongate ridge defined along the gutter
   internal wall when the internal wall is received in the recess, thereby retaining the
   internal wall in the recess.
           When the channel-shaped gutter is mounted to the building other than via an
   mounting strip (such as that disclosed in WO 2004/092509) the building and/or the gutter
30 and/or a gutter retaining clip may be modified to enable the rod first end to be self
   secured at or adjacent to the building (ie. but still without requiring the use of an
   additional, separate fastener).
           In this regard, the rod first end may be located adjacent to the gutter internal wall,
   for example, by being inserted through a hole defined in a fascia of the building, or
    Q'AAF  1

   defined in a hole of a retaining clip, which hole is then located adjacent to the gutter
   internal wall when mounted at the fascia. Once inserted through this hole the rod first end
   may be manoeuvred so as to be interferingly retained behind a fascia wall portion located
   adjacent to this hole. In one embodiment the rod can be configured in use to bend up and
 5 over the gutter internal wall to then enable the rod first end to remain inserted through the
   fascia hole.
           Alternatively the rod first end may be adapted for location behind the gutter
   internal wall, for example, by being inserted through an aperture defined in the internal
   wall. Once inserted through this aperture the rod first end may be manoeuvred so as to be
10 interferingly retained behind a portion of the internal wall that is adjacent to the aperture.
            The support rod can also be bent intermediate its first and second ends such that,
   in use and when the rod is mounted to the gutter, a roof of the building that overhangs
   and extends partially into the gutter can be accommodated by the intermediate bend.
           According to a second aspect there is disclosed a system for supporting a channel
15 shaped gutter at a building, the system comprising: a support assembly for attachment at
   the building, the support assembly being further adapted for receiving and mounting the
   gutter thereat; and an elongate support comprising a first end that is adapted for self
   securing at or adjacent to the support assembly, and a second opposite end that is adapted
   for engaging and supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the gutter is mounted at
20 the support assembly, wherein the elongate support is adapted for insertion through an
   aperture defined in the support assembly and once inserted, to be manoeuvrable so as to
   be interferingly retained behind a portion of the support assembly, the support assembly
   comprising an attachment section which is attachable to the building and a gutter
   mounting section in which a series of spaced apertures are defined, each for the receipt
25 therethrough of a respective support first end, and wherein each support first end is
   retained between inwardly facing walls of each of the gutter and gutter mounting section.
           Also disclosed is a gutter assembly comprising:
            - a channel-shaped gutter;
            - a support assembly for attachment at a building, the support assembly receiving
30 and mounting the gutter thereat; and
            - an elongate support comprising a first end that self-secures at or adjacent to the
   support assembly, and a second opposite end that engages and supports an outer portion
   of the gutter that is mounted at the support assembly.
    Q'AAF  1

                                                 -6
            The support assembly can be constituted by the mounting strip, the elongate
   support can be constituted by the support rod, and the gutter can be as defined, as in the
   first and second aspects above.
           Also disclosed is a method for mounting a channel-shaped gutter at a building,
 5 the method comprising the steps of:
            - attaching a support assembly at the building, the support assembly being further
   adapted for receiving and mounting the gutter thereat;
            - mounting the gutter to the support assembly; and
            - positioning a first end of an elongate support with respect to the support
10 assembly and a second opposite end of the support with respect to an outer portion of the
   gutter, such that the elongate support extends to the gutter outer portion to support it with
   respect to the building.
           In the method disclosed above the support first end can be positioned for retention
   between an in-use inner wall of the gutter and the support assembly, and the support
15 second end can be positioned for engagement with a free edge of the gutter outer portion.
           Again, the support assembly can be defined by the mounting strip, the elongate
   support can be defined by the support rod, and the gutter can be as defined, as in the first
   and second aspects above.
            In a third aspect there is provided a system for supporting a channel-shaped gutter
20 at a building fascia, the system comprising: a support assembly for attachment at the
   building, the support assembly being in the form of a spring clip that locates over the
   fascia and being further adapted for receiving and mounting the gutter thereat; and an
   elongate support comprising a first end that is adapted for self-securing at or adjacent to
   the support assembly, and a second opposite end that is adapted for engaging and
25 supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the gutter is mounted at the support
   assembly.
            In a fourth aspect, there is provided a gutter assembly comprising: a channel
   shaped gutter; a support assembly for attachment at a building, the support assembly
   receiving and mounting the gutter thereat; and an elongate support comprising a first end
30 that self-secures at or adjacent to the support assembly, and a second opposite end that
   engages and supports an outer portion of the gutter that is mounted at the support
   assembly, wherein the elongate support is adapted for insertion through an aperture
   defined in the support assembly and once inserted, to be manoeuvrable so as to be
   interferingly retained behind a portion of the support assembly, the support assembly
    Q'AAF  1

   comprising an attachment section which is attachable to the building and a gutter
   mounting section in which a series of spaced apertures are defined, each for the receipt
   therethrough of a respective rod first end, and wherein each rod first end is retained
   between inwardly facing walls of each of the gutter and gutter mounting section.
 5         According to a fifth aspect there is disclosed a mounting assembly for a gutter, the
   mounting assembly comprising a support assembly to support the gutter on an upright
   surface of a building, and spacers, the spacers being arranged to locate between the in
   use inner side of the gutter and the upright surface to provide an overflow gap between
   the upright surface and the gutter.
10         According to the fifth aspect there is provided an improved mounting assembly
   for a gutter which incorporates one or more overflow gaps (which can be referred to as
   "weir gaps") so as to allow water to overflow over the inner edge of a gutter thereby
   minimising the risk of water penetration in the building. As will be appreciated, the
   mounting assembly may, in some embodiments, be configured to provide overflow gaps
15 that extend for a majority of the length of the gutter. Such an arrangement is ideally
   suited to high front gutters which are susceptible to overflow over that inner edge.
           The mounting assembly of the fifth aspect is suitable for use in conventional
   gutter mounting arrangements which incorporate separate support brackets. However the
   assembly has been developed and is ideally suited to the mounting strip guttering
20 mounting arrangements disclosed in WO 2004/092509.
           Whilst the spacers may be directly connected between the upright surface and the
   in-use inner side of the gutter, in a preferred form the spacers are disposed between the
   support assembly and the upright surface.
           In one form the spacers are formed separately to the support assembly. Whilst
25 conceivably the spacers may be integrally formed as part of the gutter or support
   assembly, for manufacturing convenience it has been desirable to manufacture the
   spacers separately. The spacers may be in the form of discrete blocks which are typically
   made from plastic but it is to be appreciated that they could be made from any other
   suitable material such as metal or the like.
30         In a particular arrangement where the spacers are formed separately, the
   mechanical fasteners which are used to fix the support assembly to the upright surface
   may also be used to extend through the spacers. This provides a convenient arrangement
   wherein the mechanical fasteners, which are typically tech-screws or the like, can be used
    Q'AAF  1

                                                  -8
   to secure both the support assembly and the spacers thereby obviating the need for
   additional fasteners.
            In a particular embodiment, the spacers incorporate a retaining portion arranged
   to mount a spacer to one of either the support assembly or the upright surface. In one
 5 arrangement where the support assembly is in the form of an mounting strip, the spacers
   are adapted to receive an edge of that mounting strip so as to enable them to be retained
   on the mounting strip. This is beneficial as it may facilitate installation of the support
   assembly.
            In another form, the retaining portions of the spacers may be shaped so that they
10 can be located over a fascia or the like which constitutes the upright surface on which the
   gutter is mounted. In this form, the retaining portions may be in the form of a hook
   which locates over the upper edge of the fascia. Again, having the facility to be able to
   retain the spacers in place can simplify the installation of the mounting assembly. This
   latter form of spacer is ideally suited to be used with more conventional mounting
15 assemblies for brackets that incorporate separate support brackets.
            In a particular form, the spacer provides an additional function to assist in guiding
   of the gutter into its correct location onto the support assembly. Again such an
   arrangement is ideally suited for use in the mounting strip disclosed in WO 2004/092509
   in which the gutter can be located in a recess formed between the legs of a U-shaped
20 portion of the mounting strip.
            In a sixth aspect, there is provided a system for supporting a channel-shaped
   gutter at a building, the system comprising: a support assembly for attachment at the
   building, the support assembly being further adapted for receiving and mounting the
   gutter thereat; an elongate support comprising a first end that is adapted for self securing
25 at or adjacent to the support assembly, and a second opposite end that is adapted for
   engaging and supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the gutter is mounted at the
   support assembly; and a spacer to locate between an in-use inner side of the gutter and
   the upright surface to provide an overflow gap between the upright surface and the gutter.
            In a seventh aspect, there is provided a mounting assembly for a channel shaped
30 gutter comprising: a support assembly to support the gutter on an upright surface of a
   building, the support assembly having a U-shape in end profile, with a space defined
   between the legs of the U-shape defining a recess into which an in-use internal wall of
   the channel-shaped gutter can be received for mounting the gutter to the building and
   wherein projections are defined on one leg of the U-shape which extend into the recess
    Q'AAF   1

                                                 -9
   and are adapted to engage an elongate ridge defined along the gutter internal wall when it
   is received in the recess, thereby retaining the gutter internal wall in the recess of the U
   shaped support assembly, and a plurality of spacers disposed at spaced intervals along the
   support assembly, the spacers being arranged to locate between the in-use inner side of
 5 the gutter and the upright surface to provide an overflow gap between the upright surface
   and the gutter.
           In a eighth aspect, there is provided a mounting assembly for a gutter, the
   mounting assembly comprising a support assembly to support the gutter on an upright
   surface of a building and a plurality of spacers disposed at spaced intervals along the
10 support assembly, the spacers being arranged to locate between the in-use inner side of
   the gutter and the upright surface to provide an overflow gap between said upright
   surface and said gutter; wherein the spacers are formed separately to said support
   assembly and said gutter and the spacers incorporate a retaining portion arranged to
   mount the spacer to either one of the support assembly and the upright surface.
15         In a ninth aspect there is provided a mounting assembly for a gutter, the mounting
   assembly comprising a support assembly to support the gutter on an upright surface of a
   building and a plurality of spacers disposed at spaced intervals along the support
   assembly, the spacers being arranged to locate between the in-use inner side of the gutter
   and the upright surface to provide an overflow gap between the upright surface and the
20 gutter; wherein the support assembly is fixed to the upright surface by mechanical
   fasteners that are arranged to extend through the spacers.
            In a tenth aspect, there is provided a system to provide an overflow gap between a
   channel-shaped gutter and an upright surface of a building, the system comprising:- a
   support assembly for attachment at the building, the support assembly being further
25 adapted for receiving and mounting the gutter thereat; and- a plurality of spacers, the
   spacers being arranged to locate between the in-use inner side of the gutter and the
   support assembly to provide the overflow gap between said upright surface and said
   gutter; wherein the spacers are pre-attached to the support assembly.
           In an eleventh aspect, a spacer is disclosed for a mounting assembly according to
30 any form of the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth or ninth aspects described above.
           In a twelfth aspect, a gutter assembly is disclosed for a mounting assembly or
   system according to the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth or tenth aspects described
   above.
    Q'AAF  1

                                                 - 10
            In a thirteenth aspect, a combination support assembly and spacers is disclosed for
    use in a system according to a tenth aspect described above.
                                  Brief Description of the Drawings
  5         Notwithstanding any other forms that may fall within the definition of the support
    rod or gutter system, assembly or mounting method as set forth in the Summary, a
    number of specific embodiments of the support rod, system, assembly and method will
    now be described, by way of example only, and with reference to the accompanying
    drawings in which:
10          Figure 1 shows a side view of a first embodiment of a support rod;
            Figure 2 shows a plan view of the support rod of Figure 1;
            Figure 3 shows an in-use plan view of the support rod of Figure 1 when mounted
    to extend between a support assembly and channel-shaped gutter assembly;
            Figure 4 shows a perspective view of a support assembly to which the support rod
is  of Figure 1 and gutter of Figure 3 can be attached;
            Figure 5 shows a schematic end view of the support assembly of Figure 4
    mounted to a fascia, and assembled with a channel-shaped gutter and the support rod of
    Figure 1;
            Figure 5A shows a schematic end view of the support assembly of Figure 4
20  mounted to a fascia, and assembled with an alternative channel-shaped gutter and an
    alternative embodiment of a support rod;
            Figure 6 shows a perspective view of an alternative channel-shaped gutter with a
    second support rod embodiment mounted thereto;
            Figure 7 shows a schematic end view of the support assembly of Figure 4
25  mounted to a fascia, and assembled with a channel-shaped gutter and a third support rod
    embodiment;
            Figures 8A and 8B show in perspective view a support assembly in the form of a
    snap clip (Figure 8A) and a roll-formed steel facia (Figure 8B);
             Figure 9 shows a perspective view of the channel-shaped gutter of Figure 6
30  mounted to the fascia of Figure 8B via the snap clip of Figure 8A, and with a fourth
    support rod embodiment then mounted thereto;
            Figure 10 is a schematic isometric illustration of a support assembly for use in a
    gutter mounting assembly;
            Figure 11 is a side elevation of a spacer for use in the mounting assembly;
     Q'AAV  1

                                                  - 11
             Figure 12 is a front elevation of the spacer of Figure 11;
             Figure 13 is a side elevation of the mounting assembly when fixed to an upright
    surface of a building;
            Figure 14 illustrates a gutter mounted to the mounting assembly of Figure 13; and
  5         Figure 15 illustrates a side elevation of a gutter installed on a gutter mounting
    assembly.
                            Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments
            Referring firstly to Figures 1 and 2, an elongate support rod for supporting and
10  maintaining a channel-shaped gutter in its cantilever mounting to a fascia is shown in the
    form of a gutter support rod 10. The rod 10 is typically formed of a rigid/stiff but
    bendable metal (eg. a doubly galvanised mild steel) and comprises a first end 12 that is
    shaped so that it can self-securingly locate at or adjacent to the fascia without requiring
    the use of an additional, separate fastener (such as screws, nails, adhesive etc). The rod
is  10 further comprises a second opposite end 14 that is adapted for engaging and
    supporting an outer portion of the gutter to support and maintain its channel-shape when
    cantilever mounted to the fascia.
            The rod 10 is bent at 16, a location intermediate the first and second ends 12, 14.
    When the rod is mounted to the gutter this bend enables a typical overhanging and
20  protruding roof portion R (see dotted outline in Figure 5) to be accommodated.
            The rod 10 is typically employed with a support assembly such as a gutter-to
    building mounting strip (such as disclosed in WO 2004/092509). When so employed, a
    guttering assembly, together with an installation method and system, can be provided that
    offer substantial installation efficiencies and expediencies over existing gutter mounting
25  strap mechanisms. This is because the guttering assembly is, in effect, modularised, and
    also a minimal use of separate and time-consuming fasteners is required, as will be come
    apparent from the following description.
            As described hereafter, the rod first end 12 can be self-securingly mounted at one
    of a mounting strip, a fascia located at the building, or the gutter itself To render the rod
30  first end suitable for such mounting, a free end portion 18 of the rod 10 is bent back to
    closely face an adjacent part 20 of the rod, to thereby define a type of tight loop
    configuration at the first end. Rod adjacent part 20 is in turn bent so as to laterally project
    from a remainder 22 of the rod. As described hereafter, this configuration helps to adapt
    the rod first end 12 for self-securing mounting to one of the gutter mounting strip, fascia,
     Q'AAV  1

                                                 - 12
   or gutter and without requiring the use of a separate fastener. In an alternative
   embodiment (shown in Figure 5A), the rod (referred to as rod 86 in Figure 5A) may not
   include the free end portion 18 and the rod first end (referred to as first end 88 in Figure
   5A) may be self-securingly mounted via a means that does not require a tight loop
 5 configuration at the first end.
           To render the rod second end 14 suitable for engaging and supporting an outer
   portion of the gutter, a free end portion 24 of the rod 10 is bent around to define an open
   loop structure 26 thereat. As described hereafter, the open loop structure is shaped so that
   it can be retained within and under a bent back lip of a channel-shaped gutter that
10 comprises such a lip at a distal edge thereof Of course, the bending of the free end
   portion 24 can be adjusted and varied to accommodate different bent back lip
   configurations of differing channel-shaped gutters (see the differences in eg. Figures 5
   and 6). In alternative embodiment, to simplify manufacture, the free end portion 24 of
   the rod 10 may be bent around to define an open loop structure thereat, but with the
15 portion 24 further comprising a return portion which extends back along the rod 10
   towards bend 16.
           Referring now to Figures 3 to 5 there is shown a support assembly in the form of
   mounting strip 30 for mounting a channel-shaped gutter 50 in a cantilevered manner to a
   fascia F of a building. The gutter 50 has an internal wall 52 for location in the mounting
20 strip 30, with an elongate mounting ridge 54 being formed along the wall 52 to facilitate
   gutter retention in the strip 30.
           The mounting strip 30 includes an elongated body 32 having a general U-shape in
   end profile. This U-shape defines an attachment section 34 that can be screwed, nailed,
   adhered or otherwise fastened to the fascia F (see Figure 5) or to other suitable parts of
25 the building (such as a wall, rafter etc). The U-shape also defines a gutter mounting
   section 36.
           The U-shape results in a spacing apart of the attachment section 34 and gutter
   mounting section 36, as connected by land 37, thereby defining a recess 38 between the
   sections that is adapted to receive a part of the gutter internal wall 52 therein when
30 mounting the gutter to the mounting strip. A free end 40 of gutter mounting section 36 is
   flared out to provide a lead-in guide when mounting the gutter to the strip. In alternative
   forms, free end 40 can be crimped or knurled.
           The gutter mounting section 36 comprises a number of spaced projections 42
   arranged along its length and each extending into recess 38. The projections are tab-like
    Q'AAV  1

                                                  - 1.3
   elements typically pressed or punched into the gutter mounting section, and can be pre
   formed or aligned to provide a given/required fall when the gutter is in its installed
   position.
           Because the projections 42 extend into the recess 38 they are adapted to interfere
 5 with the mounting ridge 54 on gutter internal wall 52 to retain the gutter in the installed
   position (as shown in Figure 5). In this regard, during gutter wall insertion into recess 38,
   the angle of projection extension into recess 38 is such as to allow the ridge 54 to ride
   past and deflect each projection until the gutter has been moved therepast and into an
   installed position, whereupon the projections deflect back and are disposed under the
10 ridge as shown. This then inhibits removal of gutter wall 52 from the recess 38. The
   recess depth is also predetermined such that an upper free end 56 of gutter wall 52 sits
   adjacent to the underside of land 37, this arrangement reducing or eliminating gutter
   uplift.
           As can be seen in Figure 5A, other types of gutter 80 have a folded edge 84 which
15 extends along the length of the inner wall 82 of the gutter 80. Once inserted into the
   recess 38 (in a similar manner to that described above), gutter 80 is retained in an
   installed position because folded edge 84 interacts with the projections 42 (or, as shown,
   with the projections 42 and a first end 88 of a support rod 86, as will be described
   below).
20         A number of spaced access apertures 46 are also defined along the gutter
   mounting section 36. These apertures provide a two-fold function in the mounting strip
   30. Initially, they allow access to the attachment section 34 when it is being attached to
   the fascia F. In this regard, the attachment section 34 can be accessed to drive a screw,
   nail etc therethrough and into the fascia to fasten section 34 thereto. However,
25 conveniently they also subsequently provide a region through which the rod first end 12
   can be inserted for self-securing location within the recess 38 (as shown in Figure 5).
            To enable water to escape from the recess 38 a bleed hole 48 can be defined
   below each aperture 46. However, it will be appreciated that in some configurations,
   water may be able to drain directly out of the recess 38 and bleed holes would not
30 necessarily be required.
            Thus, once the gutter 50 has been mounted in the mounting strip 30 (ie. to be
   located in its installed position) the rod first end 12 is then inserted through a respective
   aperture 46 and is manoeuvred so as to be interferingly retained behind a portion 49 of
   the mounting section 36 adjacent to the land 37. It will also be seen in Figure 5 that the
    Q'AAV  1

                                                    - 14
    rod first end 12 sits snugly within a region of the recess located between the mounting
    section 36 and gutter wall 52, above the ridge 54 and below the land 37, thereby
    enhancing rod first end retention in the mounting strip.
             Referring now to the embodiment shown in Figure 5A, once the gutter 80 has
  5 been mounted in the mounting strip 30, the first end 88 of support rod 86 is then inserted
    through a respective aperture 46 and is manoeuvred so as to be retained between the
    folded edge 84 and the projection 42. As will be appreciated, the first end 88 of rod 86
    does not require a tight loop configuration to be self-secured to the mounting strip 30.
             In summary, the interfering retention of the rod first end 12 (or 88) can occur by
10  way of a frictional interference, or the rod first end can be push-fitted up into this region.
    In a further alternative, the interfering retention can occur by way of an interlocking
    between the rod first end 12 and the mounting strip 30. Also, it may be that the recess
    region located between the mounting section 36 and gutter wall 52 is more spacious with
    respect to an external dimension of the rod first end 12 and yet, because of the position
is  first end 12 assumes once inserted, it can still be interferingly (and self-securingly)
    retained behind the portion 49 of the mounting section 36.
             The described arrangement for retaining the rod in the mounting strip can allow
    for easy rod detachment after installation (eg. for servicing, cleaning etc) and provides a
    simple and expedient way of supporting and maintaining the gutter structure in its
20  cantilevered mounting to the mounting strip.
             In this regard, it will be seen that the rod second end 14 is adapted for engaging
    and supporting an outer lip portion 60 of the gutter 50. In a configuration employed in a
    number of channel shaped gutters, the outer lip portion 60 is bent back inwardly at a
    distal edge 62 of the gutter 50 to safely dispose the often sharp edge 62 within the gutter
25  channel. The open loop configuration at the rod second end 14 is shaped so that it can be
    interferingly retained within and under the lip portion 60, as shown in each of Figures 5
    to 7. It will also be seen that the rod second end 14' in Figure 6 has been adjusted/varied
    to accommodate the different bent back lip configuration of that channel-shaped gutter.
             The channel-shaped gutter can be mounted to a building fascia other than via an
30  mounting strip (such as that employed in Figures 3to 5). In this case (or even where such
    a mounting strip is employed) the fascia and/or the gutter can be modified to enable the
    rod first end to be self-secured at or adjacent to the building, but still without requiring
    the use of an additional, separate fastener.
     Q'AAV   1

                                                 - 15
            For example, and referring now to the rod embodiment 10' of Figure 6 (where
   like reference numerals are used to denote similar or like parts) the rod first end 12' is in
   this embodiment shaped for location behind the gutter internal wall 52'. In this
   embodiment the rod first end 12' is inserted through a small, close-fitting aperture 80
 5 defined adjacent to the upper edge of the gutter internal wall 52'. Once inserted through
   this aperture the rod first end is manoeuvred so as to be interferingly retained behind an
   adjacent portion 82 of the wall 52'. Its second end 14' can then be located under the
   modified lip portion 60'.
           By way of further example, and referring now to the rod embodiment 10" of
10 Figure 7 (where like reference numerals are used to denote similar or like parts) it will be
   seen that the rod first end 12" has now been quite differently shaped to enable it to be
   positioned in relation to a building at a location that is spaced away from the gutter
   internal wall. A hole H defined in the fascia F is sized such that the first end 12" has to be
   manoeuvred (eg. tilted) to then just pass through the hole.
15          It will be seen in this embodiment that, adjacent to the first end 12", the rod is
   bent alternatingly four times at 90, 91, 92 and 93. This configuration enables the rod to
   sit and be supported on top of the land 37 of mounting strip 30 thereby, in effect, bending
   up and over the gutter internal wall. Once the rod first end 12" has been inserted through
   the hole H it sits up so as to be interferingly retained behind a fascia wall portion F1
20 located adjacent to the hole. Again, the rod second end 14" can then be located under the
   lip portion 60.
            Something like the rod configuration of Figure 7 can be used when a support
   assembly in the form of an mounting strip 30 is not used to mount the gutter to the
   building. Alternatively, if a mounting strip is used that does not include apertures like 46
25 then the rod configuration of Figure 7 can be employed.
            By way of further example, and referring now to the rod embodiment 10"' of
   Figure 9 (where like reference numerals are again used to denote similar or like parts) the
   rod first end is in this embodiment shaped for location behind a support assembly in the
   form of a snap clip (spring clip) 100 (Figure 8A) used for mounting the gutter 50' of
30 Figure 6 to a roll-formed steel facia 110 (Figure 8B).
            The rod first end in rod 10"' may be adapted for insertion through a pre-existing
   hole 102 of the snap clip 100, in which case the snap clip can be employed unmodified.
   Alternatively, the snap clip can be modified to accommodate the rod first end, for
   example, by re-sizing the hole 102 and/or by optionally forming a groove in the rear of
    Q'AAV  1

                                                - 16
   the clip and into which a laterally projecting part of the rod first end can be received. In
   either case, in this embodiment the rod first end is interferingly retained in and by the
   snap clip. Rod second end 14"' can again be located under to support the lip portion 60'.
           As mentioned above, the various rods described, especially when employed with
 5 a rapid gutter-to-building mounting strip, can provide a guttering assembly, method and
   system that offer substantial installation efficiencies and expediencies over existing
   gutter mounting straps.
           The various rods described can be formed from eg. a rigid, doubly galvanised
   mild steel wire having a thickness of around 4mm. Alternatively, a rigid stainless steel
10 wire can be employed. Also, whilst for simplicity of manufacture and use a rod is ideal,
   bar or tube etc of similar dimension can instead be used.
           Also, whilst the retention of the rod first has been described as occurring either by
   way of a frictional-type interference (Figure 5), or by a barrier (Figures 6 and 7) it may
   alternatively occur by an interlocking of the rod first end with a pre-formed fixture on the
15 support assembly (or otherwise associated with the fascia or gutter itself). Such
   interlocking would advantageously be in a form where it can be rapidly facilitated (eg.
   comprising a single action engagement mechanism).
           Referring now to Figures 10 to 13, a gutter mounting assembly 210 is disclosed.
   The mounting assembly 210 is arranged to be affixed to an upright surface 300 of a
20 building, that surface being typically in the form of a fascia but may also be a wall or
   rafter of the building. The assembly 210 comprises two primary components, being a
   support assembly 220 which is best illustrated in Figure 10; and a plurality of spacers
   230, the individual spacers being of a form shown best in Figures 11 and 12.
           The support assembly 220 may be similar to the mounting strip 30 described
25 above and includes an elongate body 221 which is typically made from metal strip. The
   body 221 is formed in a U-shape having one leg thereof forming an attachment section
   222 whereas the other leg thereof forms a gutter mounting section 223. The body 221 is
   shaped so that the guttering mounting section 223 is longer than the attachment section
   222 with those sections being spaced apart so as to provide a recess 240 in which an in
30 use inner wall of a gutter is arranged to be received as will be discussed in more detail
   below.
           The gutter mounting section 223 incorporates a plurality of retaining clips 225
   which include projections 226 which extend into the recess 240. These retaining clips
   225 are arranged along the gutter mounting section 223 and can be aligned so as to
    Q'AAV  1

                                                 - F'/
   correspond with a fall required when the gutter is in an installed position. Typically the
   projections 226 are pressed or punched out of the metal strip that forms the mounting
   section 223 although it is to be appreciated that the support assembly 220 is not limited to
   that form of manufacture. A plurality of access apertures 227 are provided in the gutter
 5 mounting section 223 that provide access for mechanical fasteners 250 (see Figure 13)
   which are arranged to secure the attachment section 222 to the wall structure 300. Bleed
   holes 228 (if necessary) may also be provided below the apertures 227 to enable water to
   escape from the recess 240.
            The spacer 230 is shown best in Figures 11 and 12 and comprises a body portion
10 231 which incorporates a central aperture 232 which is arranged to receive the
   mechanical fasteners 250 and incorporates an outwardly extending leg 233, at one end
   234 of the body 231. The leg 233 incorporates a downwardly extending distal lip 235.
   The other end 236 of the body 231 is tapered so as to provide a guiding surface 237 for
   guiding the gutter into the recess 240 as will be explained below. The body 231 also
15 incorporates an upwardly extending ledge 238 which in use cooperates with the
   outwardly extending leg 233 to form a retaining portion 239 operative to receive the
   support assembly 220 as best illustrated in Figure 13. Typically the spacer 230 is formed
   from plastics by an injection moulding process but it is to be appreciated that it could be
   made from other materials as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.
20          Central aperture 232 is typically provided as an aperture in the spacer, but may be
   a relatively thinner section of the spacer through which a mechanical fastener (e.g. a
   screw) may be forced through.
            Turning to Figure 13, the mounting assembly 210 is initially assembled wherein a
   plurality of the spacers 230 are fitted to the support structure 220 so that each spacer
25 aligns with the fastener apertures 227. The spacers are fitted in place by location of the
   attachment section 222 of the support assembly 220 locating within the retaining
   formations 239 of the respective spacers. With this arrangement the leg 233 of the
   spacers locate over the support assembly 220 whereas a lower edge 229 of the attachment
   section 222 locates in behind the upwardly extending ledge 238. Once the spacers are
30 fitted to the support assembly 220 they can then be presented to the wall 300 wherein
   they are secured in position by fasteners 250. These fasteners 250 extend through the
   attachment section 222 and pass through the respective apertures 232 of the spacers 230
   and into the wall structure 300 thereby encasing the mounting assembly 210 to adopt the
   configuration as shown in Figure 13. Furthermore, the lower end of the respective
    Q'AAV   1

                                                  - 18
    spacers locate below the attachment section 222 of the support assembly with the
    inclined surface 237 of the spacers forming a guide surface to assist in location of a
    gutter into the mounting assembly 210.
            Figure 14 illustrates a gutter 260 mounted to the mounting assembly 210. The
  5 gutter includes a generally channel shaped body 261 and incorporates an inner side 262
    and an outer side 263. In the illustrated form, the outer side 263 is higher than the inner
    side 262. The inner side 262 which is arranged to locate within the recess 240
    incorporates an internal elongate or folded rib 264 which in use is arranged to bear
    against the inwardly directed projections 226 so as to inhibit removal of the inner wall
10  262 from the recess 240 thereby securing the gutter to the mounting assembly 210. To
    increase the stability of the gutter 260, a rod 270 may be provided at spaced intervals
    along the gutter. Alternatively, the support rod described above with reference to Figures
    1 to 5 may be used for this purpose.
             Once installed, the support assembly and the gutter 262 is spaced from the wall
is  300 thereby providing an overflow gap in the form of a weir gap 290 which extends
    between the wall 300 and the inner side 262 of the gutter. This weir gap 290 is only
    interrupted by the spaced apart spacers 230. The weir gap 290 allows any overflow from
    a blocked gutter to flow between the gutter and building thereby enabling that water to
    easily escape without pooling or back-flowing into the building structure.
20          A variation of the mounting assembly 210 is shown in Figure 15.
             The mounting assembly 320 shown in Figure 15 also includes a support assembly
    and spacers. However these are modified from the first embodiment of the sixth aspect
    with the support assembly comprising a plurality of spaced apart U-shaped brackets 321.
    The spacers 330 of the mounting assembly 320 have a similar function to that disclosed
25  in the first embodiment in that they are used to space the support brackets 321 from the
    wall 300 so as to provide a weir gap 290 between the wall 300 and the gutter 260.
             In the illustrated form, the building wall 300 is in the form of a fascia and the
    spacers 330 are arranged so as to incorporate an outwardly directing leg 331 having a
    downwardly extending distal lip 332 which is arranged to locate over an upper edge 301
30  of the fascia 300. In this way, in installation of the mounting assembly 320, the spacers
    can be positioned over the fascia 300 at predetermined distances apart along the length of
    the facia, and the brackets are then positioned to locate adjacent these spacers. The
    relative position of the brackets with respect to the spacers is then adjusted to provide an
    appropriate fall. Fasteners, typically tech-screws 250, are inserted through the brackets
     Q'AAV  1

                                                 - 19
   and the spacers 330 into the fascia 300 so as to secure the brackets 321 and the spacers
   332 to the fascia 300. The gutter 260 can then be located onto the brackets 321 in a
   conventional manner.
           In another form, when installing the mounting assembly 320, the spacers 330 can
 5 be positioned over the fascia 300 as described above, but with the brackets 321 between
   the fascia 300 and the spacers. The brackets are then effectively held in place on the
   fascia by the spacers while the mounting assembly (i.e. spacer and bracket) are
   mechanically fixed (e.g. screwed) to the fascia. The spacer may also be provided pre
   attached to the bracket for positioning and fixing to the fascia via a one step operation.
10 In both of these forms, the brackets can be fixed to the building wall 300 such that an
   appropriate fall is provided.
           In the claims which follow and in the preceding description, except where the
   context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
   "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
15 sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
   addition of further features in various embodiments.
           Whilst a number of specific embodiments have been described it should be
   appreciated that the rod, guttering assembly, guttering installation method and system,
   and spacer may be embodied in many other forms.
    Q'AAF  1

                                                - 20
   CLAIMS:
             1. A support rod for a channel-shaped gutter for a building, the rod comprising a
   first end that is adapted for mounting at or adjacent to the building, and a second opposite
 5 end that is adapted for engaging and supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the
   gutter is positioned at the building, wherein the channel-shaped gutter is mountable to the
   building via an support assembly, and wherein the rod first end is adapted for insertion
   through an aperture defined in the support assembly and, once inserted, to be
   manoeuvrable so as to be interferingly retained behind a portion of the support assembly,
10 the support assembly comprising an attachment section which is attachable to the
   building and a gutter mounting section in which a series of spaced apertures are defined,
   each for the receipt therethrough of a respective rod first end, and wherein each rod first
   end is retained between inwardly facing walls of each of the gutter and gutter mounting
   section.
15          2. A support rod as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rod first end is defined by
   bending a free end portion of the rod to define a tight loop configuration that projects
   laterally from a remainder of the rod.
            3. A support rod as claimed in either claim 1 or 2, wherein the rod second end is
   defined by bending a free end portion of the rod to define an open loop configuration
20 thereat.
            4. A support rod as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the channel
   shaped gutter is of a type comprising a bent back lip at an in-use distal edge thereof, and
   the rod second end is shaped so that it can be interferingly retained within and under this
   lip.
25          5. A support rod as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the apertures also
   enable access to the attachment section to allow the support assembly to be fastened to
   the building.
            6. A support rod as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the support assembly
   is defined to generally have a U-shape in end profile, with one stem of the U-shape
30 defining the attachment section and the other stem defining the gutter mounting section,
   and with the space between the sections defining a recess into which an in-use internal
   wall of the channel-shaped gutter can be received for mounting the gutter to the building.
            7. A support rod as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein projections are
   defined on the gutter mounting section which extend into the recess and are adapted to
    Q'AAF   1

                                                -21
   engage an elongate ridge defined along the gutter internal wall when it is received in the
   recess, thereby retaining the gutter internal wall in the recess.
            8. A support rod as claimed in any one of the preceding claims that is bent
   intermediate its first and second ends such that, in use and when the rod is mounted to the
 5 gutter, a roof of the building that overhangs and extends partially into the gutter can be
   accommodated by the intermediate bend.
            9. A system for supporting a channel-shaped gutter at a building, the system
   comprising:
            - a support assembly for attachment at the building, the support assembly being
10 further adapted for receiving and mounting the gutter thereat; and
            - an elongate support comprising a first end that is adapted for self-securing at or
   adjacent to the support assembly, and a second opposite end that is adapted for engaging
   and supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the gutter is mounted at the support
   assembly, wherein the elongate support is adapted for insertion through an aperture
15 defined in the support assembly and once inserted, to be manoeuvrable so as to be
   interferingly retained behind a portion of the support assembly, the support assembly
   comprising an attachment section which is attachable to the building and a gutter
   mounting section in which a series of spaced apertures are defined, each for the receipt
   therethrough of a respective rod first end, and wherein each rod first end is retained
20 between inwardly facing walls of each of the gutter and gutter mounting section.
            10. A system for supporting a channel-shaped gutter at a building, the system
   comprising:
            a support assembly for attachment at the building, the support assembly being
   further adapted for receiving and mounting the gutter thereat;
25          an elongate support comprising a first end that is adapted for self securing at or
   adjacent to the support assembly, and a second opposite end that is adapted for engaging
   and supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the gutter is mounted at the support
   assembly; and
            a spacer to locate between an in-use inner side of the gutter and the upright
30 surface to provide an overflow gap between said upright surface and said gutter.
            11. A system as claimed in any one of claims 10, wherein the spacer is pre
   attached to the support assembly.
    Q'AAF  1

                                               - 22
            12. A system as claimed in claim 10 or 11, wherein the spacer incorporates a
   retaining portion to mount the spacer to either one of the support assembly and the
   upright surface.
            13. A system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the upright surface is a fascia and
 5 the retaining portion is arranged for mounting the spacer to the fascia.
            14. A system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the retaining portion is in the form
   of a clip that locates over the fascia.
            15. A system as claimed in claim 10 wherein the spacer incorporates a retaining
   portion to mount the spacer to the support assembly, the retaining portion being in the
10 form of a clip that locates over an upper edge of the support assembly.
            16. A system as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 15, further comprising an
   aperture that extends through said spacer body and is arranged to receive a mechanical
   fastener.
            17. A system for supporting a channel-shaped gutter at a building fascia, the
15 system comprising:a support assembly for attachment at the building, the support
   assembly being in the form of a spring clip that locates over the fascia and being further
   adapted for receiving and mounting the gutter thereat; and
            an elongate support comprising a first end that is adapted for self-securing at or
   adjacent to the support assembly, and a second opposite end that is adapted for engaging
20 and supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the gutter is mounted at the support
   assembly.
            18. A system as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 17, wherein the elongate
   support is in the form of a support rod.
            19. A system as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 16, wherein the support
25 assembly comprises an attachment section which is attachable to the building and a gutter
   mounting section in which a series of spaced apertures are defined, each for the receipt
   therethrough of a respective support first end, and wherein each support first end is
   retained between inwardly facing walls of each of the gutter and gutter mounting section.
            20. A system as claimed in claim 19, wherein the support assembly is defined to
30 generally have a U-shape in end profile, with one stem of the U-shape defining the
   attachment section and the other stem defining the gutter mounting section, and with the
   space between the sections defining a recess into which an in-use internal wall of the
   channel-shaped gutter can be received for mounting the gutter to the building.
            21. A gutter assembly comprising:
    Q'AAF  1

                                                - 23
           - a channel-shaped gutter;
           - a support assembly for attachment at a building, the support assembly receiving
   and mounting the gutter thereat; and
           - an elongate support comprising a first end that self-secures at or adjacent to the
 5 support assembly, and a second opposite end that engages and supports an outer portion
   of the gutter that is mounted at the support assembly, wherein the elongate support is
   adapted for insertion through an aperture defined in the support assembly and once
   inserted, to be manoeuvrable so as to be interferingly retained behind a portion of the
   support assembly, the support assembly comprising an attachment section which is
10 attachable to the building and a gutter mounting section in which a series of spaced
   apertures are defined, each for the receipt therethrough of a respective rod first end, and
   wherein each rod first end is retained between inwardly facing walls of each of the gutter
   and gutter mounting section.
           22. An assembly as claimed in claim 21, wherein the support assembly is defined
15 to generally have a U-shape in end profile, with one stem of the U-shape defining the
   attachment section and the other stem defining the gutter mounting section, and with the
   space between the sections defining a recess into which an in-use internal wall of the
   channel-shaped gutter can be received for mounting the gutter to the building.
           23. An assembly as claimed in either claim 21 or 22, wherein the elongate support
20 is a support rod.
           24. A mounting assembly for a channel shaped gutter comprising:
             - a support assembly to support the gutter on an upright surface of a building, the
   support assembly having a U-shape in end profile, with a space defined between the legs
   of the U-shape defining a recess into which an in-use internal wall of the channel-shaped
25 gutter can be received for mounting the gutter to the building and wherein projections are
   defined on one leg of the U-shape which extend into the recess and are adapted to engage
   an elongate ridge defined along the gutter internal wall when it is received in the recess,
   thereby retaining the gutter internal wall in the recess of the U-shaped support assembly,
   and a plurality of spacers disposed at spaced intervals along the support assembly, the
30 spacers being arranged to locate between the in-use inner side of the gutter and the
   upright surface to provide an overflow gap between said upright surface and said gutter.
           25. A mounting assembly according to claim 24, wherein the spacers are arranged
   to be disposed between the support assembly and the upright surface.
    Q'AAF  1

                                               - 24
           26. A mounting assembly according to claim 24 or 25, wherein the spacers are
   formed separately to said support assembly and said gutter.
           27. A mounting assembly according to claim 25 or 26, wherein the spacers
   incorporate a retaining portion arranged to mount the spacer to either one of the support
 5 assembly and the upright surface.
           28. A mounting assembly for a gutter, the mounting assembly comprising a
   support assembly to support the gutter on an upright surface of a building and a plurality
   of spacers disposed at spaced intervals along the support assembly, the spacers being
   arranged to locate between the in-use inner side of the gutter and the upright surface to
10 provide an overflow gap between said upright surface and said gutter; wherein the
   spacers are formed separately to said support assembly and said gutter and the spacers
   incorporate a retaining portion arranged to mount the spacer to either one of the support
   assembly and the upright surface.
           29. A mounting assembly according to claim 28, wherein the spacers are arranged
15 to be disposed between the support assembly and the upright surface.
           30. A mounting assembly according to any one of claims 24 to 29, wherein the
   support assembly is fixed to the upright surface by mechanical fasteners that are arranged
   to extend through said spacers.
           31. A mounting assembly for a gutter, the mounting assembly comprising a
20 support assembly to support the gutter on an upright surface of a building and a plurality
   of spacers disposed at spaced intervals along the support assembly, the spacers being
   arranged to locate between the in-use inner side of the gutter and the upright surface to
   provide an overflow gap between said upright surface and said gutter; wherein the
   support assembly is fixed to the upright surface by mechanical fasteners that are arranged
25 to extend through said spacers.
           32. A mounting assembly according to claim 30 or 31, wherein the spacers
   include apertures arranged to receive said mechanical fasteners.
           33. A mounting assembly according to any one of claims 28 to 32, wherein the
   support assembly includes an attachment section which is attachable to a building and a
30 gutter mounting section, the gutter mounting section including a plurality of gutter
   retaining clips arranged along the gutter mounting section.
           34. A mounting assembly according to claim 33, wherein the support assembly
   includes a generally U-shaped portion, one leg thereof being the attachment section and
   the other leg thereof being the gutter mounting section, the legs of the U-shaped portion
    Q'AAF  1

                                                - 25
   being spaced apart so as to provide a recess therebetween for receiving part of an in-use
   inner wall of the gutter.
            35. A mounting assembly as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 29, wherein the
   upright surface is a fascia and the retaining portions are arranged for mounting the
 5 spacers to the fascia.
            36. A mounting assembly as claimed in claim 30, wherein the retaining portions
   are in the form of clips that locate over the fascia.
            37. A mounting assembly as claimed in claim 24 to 26, wherein the spacers
   incorporate a retaining portion to mount the spacer to the support assembly, the retaining
10 portions being in the form of clips that locate over an upper edge of the support
   assembly.
            38. A mounting assembly according to any one of claims 24 to 37, wherein the
   support assembly is in the form of one or more elongate mounting strips.
            39. A mounting assembly as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 37, wherein the
15 support assembly is in the form of a plurality of brackets.
            40. A mounting assembly as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 35, wherein the
   spacers are pre-attached to the support assembly.
            41. A mounting assembly according to any one of claims 24, 25, 31 to 34,
   wherein the spacers are integrally formed with the support assembly.
20          42. A spacer for use in a mounting assembly according to any one of claims 24 to
   41.
           43. A spacer for a gutter mounting assembly arranged to mount a gutter to an
   upright surface, the spacer comprising a body which in use is arranged to locate between
   an in-use inner wall of the gutter and the upright surface to provide an overflow gap
25 between said upright surface and said gutter, and a retaining portion arranged to mount
   the spacer relative to either one of the gutter or the upright surface.
            44. A spacer as claimed in claim 43, wherein the upright surface is a fascia and
   the retaining portion is arranged for mounting the spacer to the fascia.
            45. A spacer as claimed in claim 44, wherein the retaining portion is in the form
30 of a clip that locates over the fascia.
            46. A spacer as claimed in any one of claims 40 to 45, further comprising an
   aperture that extends through said spacer body and arranged to receive a mechanical
   fastener.
    Q'AAF  1

                                                - 26
            47. A spacer as claimed in any one of claims 40 to 46, wherein the spacer is pre
   attached to a support assembly for supporting the gutter on the upright surface.
            48. A spacer as claimed in claim 43 wherein the spacer incorporates a retaining
   portion to mount the spacer to a support assembly for supporting the gutter on the
 5 upright surface, the retaining portion being in the form of a clip that locates over an upper
   edge of the support assembly.
           49. A gutter assembly comprising a channel shaped gutter and a mounting
   assembly according to any one of claims 24 to 41.
            50. A support rod according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the support
10 assembly is in the form of one or more mounting strips.
            51. A system according to any one of claims 9 to 16, 19 and 20 wherein the
   support assembly is in the form of one or more mounting strips.
            52. A gutter assembly according to any one of claims 21 to 23 wherein the
   support assembly is in the form of one or more mounting strips.
15          53. A support rod for a channel-shaped gutter for a building, the rod comprising a
   first end that is adapted for mounting at or adjacent to the building, and a second opposite
   end that is adapted for engaging and supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the
   gutter is positioned at the building.
            54. An elongate support for a channel-shaped gutter for a building, the support
20 comprising a first end that is adapted for self-securing at or adjacent to the building
   without the use of a separate fastener, and a second opposite end that is adapted for
   engaging and supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the gutter is positioned at the
   building.
           55. An elongate support as claimed in claim 54 that is in the form of a support
25 rod.
            56. A support rod as claimed in claim 54 or 55 wherein the rod first end is
   adapted for self-securing location at a structure located at or adjacent to the building.
            57. A support rod as claimed in claim 56 wherein the rod first end is insertable
   through an aperture defined in the structure and, once inserted, can be interferingly
30 retained within the structure.
            58. A support rod as claimed in any one of claims 53, 55 to 57 wherein the rod
   first end is defined by bending a free end portion of the rod to define a tight loop
   configuration that projects laterally from a remainder of the rod.
    Q'AAF  1

            59. A support rod as claimed in any one of claims 53 or 55 to 58 wherein the rod
   second end is defined by bending a free end portion of the rod to define an open loop
   configuration thereat.
            60. A support rod as claimed in any one of claims 53 or 55 to 59 wherein the
 5 channel-shaped gutter is of a type comprising a bent back lip at an in-use distal edge
   thereof, and the rod second end is shaped so that it can be interferingly retained within
   and under this lip.
            61. A support rod as claimed in any one of claims 53 or 55 to 62 wherein the
   channel-shaped gutter is mountable to the building via an elongate strip, and wherein the
10 rod first end is adapted for insertion through an aperture defined in this strip and, once
   inserted, to be manoeuvrable so as to be interferingly retained behind a portion of the
   strip.
            62. A support rod as claimed in claim 61 wherein the strip comprises an
   attachment section which is attachable to the building and a gutter mounting section in
15 which a series of spaced apertures are defined, each for the receipt therethrough of a
   respective rod first end, and wherein each rod first end is retained between inwardly
   facing walls of each of the gutter and gutter mounting section.
            63. A support rod as claimed in claim 62 wherein the apertures also enable access
   to the attachment section to allow the strip to be fastened to the building.
20          64. A support rod as claimed in claim 62 or 63 wherein the strip is defined to
   generally have a U-shape in end profile, with one stem of the U-shape defining the
   attachment section and the other stem defining the gutter mounting section, and with the
   space between the sections defining a channel into which an in-use internal wall of the
   channel-shaped gutter can be received for mounting the gutter to the building.
25          65. A support rod as claimed in claim 64 wherein projections are defined on the
   gutter mounting section which extend into the channel and are adapted to engage an
   elongate ridge defined along the gutter internal wall when it is received in the channel,
   thereby retaining the gutter internal wall in the channel.
            66. A support rod as claimed in any one of claims 53 or 55 to 60 wherein the
30 channel-shaped gutter is mountable to the building at an in-use internal wall thereof, and
   wherein the rod first end is adapted for insertion through an aperture defined in or
   adjacent to the internal wall and, once inserted therethrough, to be manoeuvrable so as to
   be interferingly retained behind a wall portion adjacent to the aperture.
    Q'AAF  1

                                                - 28
           67. A support rod as claimed in claim 66 wherein the rod first end is adapted for
   insertion through a hole defined in a fascia of the building, or defined in a gutter
   mounting snap clip, that in use is located adjacent to the gutter internal wall.
           68. A support rod as claimed in claim 67 that is configured in use to bend up and
 5 over the gutter internal wall to enable the rod first end to remain inserted through the hole
   of the fascia.
           69. A support rod as claimed in any one of claims 53 or 55 to 68 that is bent
   intermediate its first and second ends such that, in use and when the rod is mounted to the
   gutter, a roof of the building that overhangs and extends partially into the gutter can be
10 accommodated by the intermediate bend.
           70. A system for supporting a channel-shaped gutter at a building, the system
   comprising:
           - a mounting element for attachment at the building, the mounting element being
   further adapted for receiving and mounting the gutter thereat; and
15         - an elongate support comprising a first end that is adapted for self-securing at or
   adjacent to the mounting element, and a second opposite end that is adapted for engaging
   and supporting an outer portion of the gutter when the gutter is mounted at the mounting
   element.
           71. A system as claimed in claim 70 wherein the mounting element is the strip as
20 defined in any one of claims 61 to 65, and wherein the elongate support is the support rod
   as defined in any one of claims 56 to 62 or 66 to 69.
           72. A gutter assembly comprising:
           - a channel-shaped gutter;
           - a mounting element for attachment at a building, the mounting element
25 receiving and mounting the gutter thereat; and
           - an elongate support comprising a first end that self-secures at or adjacent to the
   mounting element, and a second opposite end that engages and supports an outer portion
   of the gutter that is mounted at the mounting element.
           73. An assembly as claimed in claim 72 wherein the mounting element is the strip
30 as defined in any one of claims 61 to 65, wherein the elongate support is the support rod
   as defined in any one of claims 56 to 62 or 66 to 69, and wherein the gutter is as defined
   in any one of claims 60, 65 or 66.
           74. A method for mounting a channel-shaped gutter at a building, the method
   comprising the steps of:
    Q'AAF  1

                                                 - 29
            - attaching a mounting element at the building, the mounting element being
    further adapted for receiving and mounting the gutter thereat;
            - mounting the gutter to the mounting element; and
            - positioning a first end of an elongate support with respect to the mounting
  5 element and a second opposite end of the support with respect to an outer portion of the
    gutter, such that the elongate support extends to the gutter outer portion to support it with
    respect to the building.
            75. A method as claimed in claim 74 wherein the support first end is positioned
    for retention between an in-use inner wall of the gutter and the mounting element, and
10  wherein the support second end is positioned for engagement with a free edge of the
    gutter outer portion.
            76. A method as claimed in claim 74 or 75 wherein, in the method, the mounting
    element is defined by the strip of any one of claims 61 to 65, the elongate support is
    defined by the support rod of any one of claims 56 to 62 or 66 to 69, and the gutter is as
is  defined in any one of claims 60, 65 or 66.
            77. A mounting assembly for a gutter, the mounting assembly comprising a
    support assembly to support the gutter on an upright surface of a building, and a plurality
    of spacers, the spacers being arranged to locate between the in-use inner side of the gutter
    and the upright surface to provide an overflow gap between said upright surface and said
20  gutter.
            78. A mounting assembly according to claim 77, wherein the spacers are arranged
    to be disposed between the support assembly and the upright surface.
            79. A mounting assembly according to claim 77 or 78, wherein the spacers are
    formed separately to said support assembly and said gutter.
25          80. A mounting assembly according to claim 79, wherein the spacers incorporate
    a retaining portion arranged to mount the spacer to either one of the support assembly
    and the upright surface.
            81. A mounting assembly according to any one of claims 77 to 80, wherein the
    support assembly is fixed to the upright surface by mechanical fasteners that are arranged
30  to extend through said spacers.
            82. A mounting assembly according to claim 81, wherein the spacers include
    apertures arranged to receive said mechanical fasteners.
            83. A mounting assembly according to any one of claims 77 to 82, wherein the
    support assembly is formed from an elongate body including an attachment section
     Q'AAF  1

                                                  - 30
   which is attachable to a building and a gutter mounting section, the gutter mounting
   section including a plurality of gutter retaining clips arranged along the gutter mounting
   section.
            83. A mounting assembly according to claim 82, wherein the elongate body
 5 includes a generally U-shaped portion, one leg thereof being the attachment section and
   the other leg thereof being the gutter mounting section, the legs of the U-shaped portion
   being spaced apart so as to provide a recess therebetween for receiving part of an inner
   side of the gutter.
            84. A mounting assembly for a gutter according to any one of claims 77 to 82,
10 wherein the support assembly comprises a plurality of generally U-shaped brackets.
            85. A spacer for use in a mounting assembly according to any one of claims 77 to
   84.
            86. A system to provide an overflow gap between a channel-shaped gutter and an
   upright surface of a building, the system comprising:
15          - a support assembly for attachment at the building, the support assembly being
   further adapted for receiving and mounting the gutter thereat; and
            - a plurality of spacers, the spacers being arranged to locate between the in-use
   inner side of the gutter and the support assembly to provide the overflow gap between
   said upright surface and said gutter;
20         wherein the spacers are pre-attached to the support assembly.
            87. A system according to claim 86, wherein the spacers are integrally formed
   with the support assembly.
            88. A system according to claim 86 or 87, wherein the support assembly is fixed
   to the upright surface by mechanical fasteners that are arranged to extend through said
25 spacers.
            89. A system according to one of claims 86 to 88 wherein the spacers include apertures
   arranged to receive mechanical fasteners.
             90. A mounting assembly according to any one of claims 86 to 89, wherein the
   support assembly is formed from an elongate body including an attachment section
30 which is attachable to a building and a gutter mounting section, the gutter mounting
   section including a plurality of gutter retaining clips arranged along the gutter mounting
   section.
            91. A mounting assembly according to claim 90, wherein the elongate body
   includes a generally U-shaped portion, one leg thereof being the attachment section and
    Q'AAF  1

                                             -31
  the other leg thereof being the gutter mounting section, the legs of the U-shaped portion
  being spaced apart so as to provide a recess therebetween for receiving part of an inner
  side of the gutter.
          92. A mounting assembly for a gutter according to any one of claims 86 to 90,
5 wherein the support assembly comprises a plurality of generally U-shaped brackets.
          93. A combination support assembly and spacers for use in a system according to
  any one of claims 86 to 92, wherein the spacers are pre-attached to the support assembly
  and arranged to locate between the in-use inner side of the gutter and the support
  assembly to provide the overflow gap between said upright surface and said gutter.
   Q'AAF  1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
