A display board made of flexible material, to be affixed to a stand and placed beside an equestrian
hurdle.

                EDITORIAL NOTE
                        <removed-apn>
- There is 2 page of Description only

DESCRIPTION
"Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves are made from good quality PVC plastic tarp. Other Tarp
could be an option, but PVC plastic is my choice. PVC plastic is heavy duty long lasting
material with plenty of variety of colours, widths and thickness. A good quality UV heavy
gauge thread would be used to bind the sleeve together. This would enable durability
and wear and tear to last our weather conditions.
Velcro tabs will fasten one side of the Jumping Horse Wing Sleeve to the show jump
wing to secure it in place. The Velcro Tabs will not impede the lowering and raising of
the show jump cup when the time comes raise or lower the jump. You just tuck the
Velcro under the sleeve out of the way. There would be about 4 Velcro tabs along the
cup side of the sleeve.
A gusset on the non-cup side of the Jumping Horse Wing Sleeve helps secure the Sleeve
into place.
Sponsors Logos, unlimited designs, flowerpots sewn onto the PVC plastic creates a
perfect holder for faux flowers and different plant types to be put into them, creating a
eye catching design to the show jump. Real plants and flowerpots can be heavy and
hard to keep alive (especially in the dry, country areas.) Designs can be placed on both
sides of the sleeve creating a double-sided advertising Logo or design.
The Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves are light in weight and do not create a heavier wing
when the time comes to change the show jumping course track.
When the Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves are put on the wings at the beginning of a
competition they wouldn't be required to be removed until the end of the days
competition. They could be left on overnight if required or whenever the time comes to
store them away.
So many Show jumping wings with Logos and sponsorship advertising I have seen are
made with metal or wooden components. This can greatly increase the weight of the
show jump wing and make it quite heavy to move around when the time comes to
change the show jump course design and to set out and pack up when required.
Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves can make a tired, rusted, paint flaked old tired looking
show jumping wing change into a bright colourful wing change into a colourful, vibrant
looking show jump wing which gives the spectators, horses something great to look at
and makes the show jump course look spectacular.
The ease of sliding the Jumping Horse Wing Sleeve over any show jump wing is not time
consuming and very satisfying. The Velcro Tabs on the cup side of the show jump wing
are easy and quick to secure and change when the time comes to lower or raising of the
show jump poles. If a Velcro Tab is in the position of where you need to fit a show jump
cup, then you simply tuck the tab under the Jumping Horse Wing Sleeve. There would

be 4 Velcro Tabs or as many as required for a show jump wing. So, securing the Jumping
Horse Wing Sleeve wouldn't be an issue.
The Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves are a made to measure design.
I have already tested the Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves at our local show jumping
competition using my prototypes. I have trialled them on windy days and they were
quite secure, not flappy due to the good quality heavy PVC plastic. However, on
extremely windy days did they give trouble, which caused the wing to tip over but by
turning the show jump wing on another angle this did fix the wind issue. There was not
flapping issue because of the strong Velcro fasteners and well fitted sleeve. I must
mention, other equipment gave us trouble including planks we, flags etc. out on the
course.
The Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves fold up nice and flat for easy storage in a plastic tub
container for safe keeping or where ever available shelving or boxes etc until required. I
have 8 Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves stored in one plastic tub container which is
convenient for storage or transportation to a competition.
I think my Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves are going to be a hit. I have never seen anything
like them anywhere including overseas. I have seen show jumping pole sleeves made
from PVC, but no one has come up with my idea.
The Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves are going to benefit all show jumping events, clubs
,course builders, sponsors and helpers and shows looking for a easy, new way to spruce
up their showjumps.something that's long lasting.

                EDITORIAL NOTE
                        <removed-apn>
- There is 1 page of Claims only

CLAIMS
Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves are unique and there is nothing around like them.
They are made with heavy grade PVC plastic tarp and have an endless design aspect about
them.
Sponsors advertising
Logos
Faux flowers used in pocket flowerpots
Equestrian designs, any design.
Printed designs.
Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves are sewn using a heavy grade thread which is long lasting.
The Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves easily slides over the show jumping wings with ease and
fastens securely using a strong Velcro fastener.
The Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves are going to instantly turn a drab, dull looking show jump
into an eye catching, bright,
 vibrant jump giving the horse, riders and spectators something new to look at.
The Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves do not impede the show jump wings in any way and can be
moved around with no extra weight or awkwardness when required to do so.
The Jumping Horse Wing Sleeves are waterproof and can be used in all weather conditions.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
