ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a composition for treating skin damage, comprising
halobacteria extracts .The halobacteria extracts further comprising strong antioxidants
with high redox potential when dissolved in oil and in water. The strong antioxidants
inhibiting in a known oxidative mechanisms which are further correlated with skin
damage, wherein the halobacteria extract is Archaebacteria DN-1         having a wide
range impact on rehabilitation of the skin tissue after radiation. Furthermore, the
composition is preferably adapted for topical delivery.

WO 2014/045280                                                          PCT/IL2013/050786
    TOPICAL HALOBACTRIA EXTRACT COMPOSITION FOR
            TREATING RADIATION SKIN TISSUE DAMAGE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
This invention is directed towards a composition for treating skin damage by
using halobacteria extracts. More specifically the invention relates to a halobacteria
extracts composition for enhancement and rehabilitation of the skin tissue after
radiation treatment.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Halobacteria are known as halophilic microorganisms. This type of archaeon can act
as a good model for some aspects of eukaryotic biology, such as DNA replication,
transcription, and translation. Comparing a halophile genome to that of other
prokaryotes should give insight into microbial adaptation to extreme conditions.
Halobacteria are extreme obligate bacteria. They require, for their growth, very high
salt concentrations (from 10 to 30%), KCl, MgCl2 and especially NaCl. These
organisms are isolated from natural media. To maintain their internal osmotic pressure
which should be in equilibrium with the NaCl concentration in the medium,
halobacteria accumulate from 3 to 4 M of salt in their cytoplasm in the form of KCl.
A suspension of halobacteria in a medium containing an NaCl concentration of 2M
causes complete loss of the stiffness of the bacterial envelope and the bacterium then
 assumes a round shape. Decreasing the salt concentration below 1 M leads to bacterial
lysis.
 Colonies of halobacteria are red in colour, their envelopes indeed contain coloured
pigments (bacterio-ruberins) which protect them against intense ultraviolet radiation
 to which they are exposed. Halobacteria possess a pigment, halorhodopsin, which
pumps chloride ions in the cell in response to photons, creating a voltage gradient and
 assisting in the production of energy from light. The process is unrelated to other
 forms of photosynthesis involving electron transport however, and halobacteria are
 incapable of fixing carbon from carbon dioxide.
 The conventional shape of Halobacterium in a salt-rich medium is that of an oblong
                                             I

WO 2014/045280                                                           PCT/IL2013/050786
bacillus 4 to 10 [mu]m long and 0.7 [mu]m in diameter. This bacterium possesses
from 5 to 8 lophotrichous flagella. Halobacterium halobium is incapable of using
carbohydrates as carbon and energy source.
EP application no.1250918 discloses extraction process and the use of a glycoprotein
fraction extracted from an archaebacterium: Halobacterium halobium.
The product described, incorporated into a cosmetic preparation, has the peculiarity to
protect skin cells from the harmful effects of pollution and / or radiation.
RU application no.2109515 discloses a strain Halobacterium halobium preparation
 showing bioactive properties. This strain produces the broad spectrum of biological
macrobiotic activity. Antiradical effect of preparation stops destructive effect of labile
free radicals. Preparation is a lyophilized powder of halobacterium biomass and can
be used as a biologically active addition to food, as an agent decreasing toxic effect of
 antitumor compounds. Preparation can be used for prophylaxis and therapy of
 radiation sickness.
 A variety of Halobacteria extracts are known to have advantageous cosmetic and/or
 therapeutic properties especially for the treatment of scars, thermal, electrical
 chemical and sun burns or different types of sores as topical composition such as
 milk, cream, lotion, serum, mask or gel.
 There thus remains an unmet and long felt need to provide means and methods for
 improved treatment of skin tissue burns, blemishes and defects.
                                              2

WO 2014/045280                                                           PCT/IL2013/050786
SUMMARY
It is one object of the present invention to provide a composition for treating skin
damage comprising halobacteria extracts , the halobacteria extracts comprising strong
antioxidants with high redox potential when dissolved in oil and in water; the strong
antioxidants inhibiting known oxidative mechanisms correlated with skin damage;
wherein the halobacteria extract is Archaebacteria DN-1 which has a wide range
impact on rehabilitation of the skin tissue after radiation; the composition is adapted
for topical delivery.
It is another object of the present invention to provide the composition as defined
 above, wherein the composition further comprises Dunaliella extracts.
 It is one object of the present invention to provide composition for treating skin
 damage in a mammalian subject the composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1
halobacterial extracts, the extracts comprising: (a)at least one water soluble fraction;
 and, (b)at least one oil soluble fraction. The Archaebacteria DN-1 provides an anti
 oxidant activity as measured by any of in vitro Assay 1-4; the activity substantially
 correlated with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 iiMol Trolox Equivalent /100 g
 measured by oxygen radical absorbent capacity(ORAC) Assay 1 at the treatment
 site.
 It is one object of the present invention to provide composition for treating skin
 damage in a mammalian subject the composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1
 halobacterial extracts, the extracts comprising: (a)at least one water soluble fraction;
 and, (b)at least one oil soluble fraction. The Archaebacteria DN-1 provides an anti
 oxidant activity as measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4; the activity substantially
 correlated with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 pMol Trolox Equivalent /100 g
 measured by ferric reducing ability of plasma (FRAP) Assay 4 at the treatment site.
 It is one object of the present invention to provide a composition for treating skin
 damage in a mammalian subject the composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1
 halobacterial extracts, the extracts comprising: (a)at least one water soluble fraction;
 and, (b)at least one oil soluble fraction. The Archaebacteria DN-1 provides an anti
 oxidant activity as measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4; the activity substantially
 correlated with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 pMol Trolox Equivalent /100 g
 measured by 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) Assay 4 at the treatment site
                                               3

WO 2014/045280                                                          PCT/IL2013/050786
It is one object of the present invention to provide a composition for treating skin
damage in a mammalian subject the composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1
halobacterial extracts, the extracts comprising: (a)at least one water soluble fraction;
and, (b)at least one oil soluble fraction. The Archaebacteria DN-l provides an anti
oxidant activity as measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4; the activity substantially
correlated with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 iMol Trolox Equivalent /100 g
measured by 3-ethyl-benzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS) Assay 4 at the
treatment site.
It is one object of the present invention to provide a composition for treating skin
damage in a mammalian subject the composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1
halobacterial extracts, the extracts comprising: (a)at least one water soluble fraction;
 and, (b)at least one oil soluble fraction. The Archaebacteria DN-1 provides an anti
 oxidant activity as measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4, the activity substantially
correlated with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 pMol Trolox Equivalent /100 g
 measured by Trolox Equivalent Antioxidant Capacity (TEAC)Assay 5 at the
 treatment site.
 It is another object of the present invention to provide the composition as defined
 above, wherein the body serum measurement is taken from any body site.
 It is another object of the present invention to provide the composition as defined
 above, wherein the halobacteria extracts provides antioxidant and redox potential to a
 wound site, correllated with an increase in erythrocytes (RBC) , leukocytes (WBC) ,
 Interleukin-6(IL-6) concentration and glutathione concentration in a treated subject
 compared with an untreated control..
 It is another object of the present invention to provide the composition as defined
 above, wherein the assay 1-5 measurement of total antioxidant activity is performed
 in a serum sample of the composition or in an object plasma tissue.
 It is another object of the present invention to provide the composition as defined
 above, wherein the halobacteria extract protects membranes from oxidation by
 reacting with radicals produced in the chain reaction.
 It is another object of the present invention to provide the composition as defined
  above, further wherein the composition
  is for decreasing of clinical syndromes resulting from radiation in variety of systems
  such as the nerve system , digesting system and vascular system.
                                               4

WO 2014/045280                                                            PCT/IL2013/050786
It is another object of the present invention to provide the composition as defined
above, further wherein the composition is for treating cardiac, liver or vascular
diseases, stabilization and improvement of the immune system and the endocrine
system.
It is another object of the present invention to provide the composition as defined
above, wherein the composition comprises by weight, 2.5%-10% Archaebacteria
DN-1.
It is another object of the present invention to provide the composition as defined
 above, wherein the delivering manner is selected from the group consisting of: a gel, a
milk, a lotion, a serum, a mask, ointments or a cream.
It is another object of the present invention to provide the composition as defined
 above, wherein the skin damage is selected from the group consisting of : skin
blemish , scars, burns, mucositis or/and bedsores resulting from radiation treatment,
 surgery or any drug treatment.
 It is one object of the present invention to provide a skin damage treatment
 composition comprising halobacterial extract, promotes rehabilitation of the body
 tissue after radiation, alleviation of depression, reduction of clinical syndromes
 resulting from radiation ,treatment of cardiac, liver or vascular diseases, stabilization
 and improvement of the immune system and the endocrine system.
 It is one object of the present invention to provide a skin damage treatment
 composition comprising halobacterial extract, further comprises , preservatives,
 surfactants, humectants ,emulsifiers, thickening agents, perfumes, preservatives,
 vegetable or mineral oils, antiseptic agents, acidifying or alkalinizing agents,
 vitamins, anti-UV agents, solvents, pH-stabilizing agents, silicones and combination
 thereof.
 It is one object of the present invention to provide a method of producing an
 Archaebacteria DN-1 fraction comprising the steps of: (a)obtaining a bacterial mass
 by culturing archaebacteria, (b)dispersing a quantity of the bacterial mass in a solvent
  to form a solution, (c)extracting the solution with a halogenated solvent, (d)extracting
  the solution with a Cl-C4 alkanol; and (e)extracting the solution with water.
  The halobacteria extract is Archaebacteria DN- 1 having an anti oxidant activity
  which has a wide range impact on rehabilitation of the skin tissue after radiation; the
  activity substantially correlated with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 pMol
  Trolox Equivalent /100 g at the treatment site.
                                               5

WO 2014/045280                                                           PCT/IEL2013/050786
It is another object of the present invention to provide the method as defined above,
further wherein the composition is for decreasing of clinical syndromes resulting from
radiation in variety of systems such as the nerve system , digesting system and
vascular system.
It is another object of the present invention to provide the method as defined above,
further wherein the composition is for treating cardiac, liver or vascular diseases,
 stabilization and improvement of the immune system and the endocrine system.
It is another object of the present invention to provide the method as defined above,
wherein the composition comprises by weight, 2.5%-10% Archaebacteria DN-l.
It is another object of the present invention to provide the method as defined above,
wherein the delivering manner is selected from the group consisting of: a gel, a milk,
 a lotion, a serum, a mask, ointments or a cream.
 It is another object of the present invention to provide the method as defined above,
 wherein the composition treats skin blemish such as scars, burns or/ and bedsores
 resulting from radiation, surgery or any drug treatment.
 It is another object of the present invention to provide the method as defined above,
 wherein the composition comprising halobacterial extract, promotes rehabilitation of
 the body tissue after radiation, alleviation of depression, reduction of clinical
 syndromes resulting from radiation ,treatment of cardiac, liver or vascular diseases,
 stabilization and improvement of the immune system and the endocrine system.
 It is another object of the present invention to provide the method as defined above,
 wherein the composition further comprises , preservatives, surfactants, humectants
 ,emulsifiers, thickening agents, perfumes, preservatives, vegetable or mineral oils,
 antiseptic agents, acidifying or alkalinizing agents, vitamins, anti-UV agents, solvents,
 pH-stabilizing agents, silicones and combination thereof.
 It is another object of the present invention to provide the method as defined above,
 wherein the halobacteria extract has antioxidant activity due to its redox properties,
 resulting in increment of erythrocytes (RBC) , leukocytes (WBC) , Interleukin-6(IL-6)
 concentration and glutathione concentration .
                                               6

WO 2014/045280                                                            PCT/IL2013/050786
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
The following description is provided so as to enable any person skilled in the art to
make use of the invention and sets forth the best modes contemplated by the inventor
of carrying out this invention. Various modifications, however, will remain apparent
to those skilled in the art, since the generic principles of the present invention have
been defined specifically to provide an archaebacteria DN-1 useful for treating skin
damages resulting from radiation, surgery or any drug treatment (such as scars, burns,
bedsores and mucositis).
The present invention is a composition which includes Archaebacteria DN-1 which
comprises strong antioxidants that dissolved in oil and in water. The composition has
a wide range impact on rehabilitation of the skin. The treatment is delivered topically.
Treatment with Archaebacteria DN- 1 comprising strong antioxidants prevents
propagation of tissue damage and improve both survival and neurological outcome of
diseases. One of the parameters that is modulated either by radical overload or by
intake of dietary antioxidants (and can therefore be regarded as more representative of
 the in vivo balance between oxidizing species and antioxidant compounds unknown,
 measurable and not measurable) is plasma total antioxidant capacity (TAC).
 There are several methods to assess the antioxidant activity of a substance:
 Oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) is a method of measuring antioxidant
 capacities in biological samples in vitro. The assay measures the oxidative
 degradation of the fluorescent molecule (either beta-phycoerythrin or fluorescein)
 after being mixed with free radical generators such as azo-initiator compounds.
 DPPH (2-diphenyl-l-picrylhydrazyl) is composed of stable free-radical molecules.
 DPPH acts as a monitor of chemical reactions involving radicals. DPPH is radical and
 a trap ("scavenger") for other radicals. Therefore, rate reduction of a chemical
 reaction upon addition of DPPH is used as an indicator of the radical nature of a
 reaction.The DPPH assay provides an easy and rapid way to evaluate potential
 antioxidants.
 The antioxidant activity can also be measured by ferric reducing
  antioxidant power (FRAP)assay. Ferric reducing ability of plasma (FRAP, also
 Ferric ion reducing antioxidantpower) is an antioxidant capacity assays which uses
 Trolox as a standard- FRAP assay uses antioxidants as reluctant in a redox
                                               7

WO 2014/045280                                                          PCT/IL2013/050786
linked colorimetric method, employing an easily reduced oxidant system presentin
stoichiometric excess.
ABTS(2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulphonic acid) assay is another
method to measure antioxidant capacities . In this assay, ABTS is converted to its
radical cation by addition of sodium persulfate. This radical cation is blue in color and
absorbs light at 734 nm. The ABTS radical cation is reactive towards most
antioxidants including phenolics, thiols and Vitamin C. During this reaction, the blue
ABTS radical cation is converted back to its colorless neutral form. The reaction may
be monitored spectrophotometrically. This assay is often referred to as the Trolox
equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) assay. The reactivity of the various
antioxidants tested are compared to that of Trolox, which is a water-soluble analog of
vitamin E.
Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) is an additional measurement of
antioxidant strength based on Trolox, measured in units called Trolox Equivalents
 (TE), e.g. tmolTE/100 g. Due to the difficulties in measuring individual antioxidant
components of a complex mixture (such as blueberries or tomatoes), Trolox
 equivalency is used as a benchmark for the antioxidant capacity of such a mixture.
Trolox equivalency is most often measured using the ABTS decolorization assay.
 The present invention further provides a composition for treating skin damages in a
 mammalian subject the composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1
 halobacterial extract the extract comprising: (a)at least one water soluble fraction;
 and (b)at least one oil soluble fraction. The Archaebacteria DN-1 provides an anti
 oxidant activity as measured by any of in vitro Assay 1-4; the activity substantially
 correlated with a body serum total antioxidant capacity(TAC) of at least 167.1
  tMolTE/100 g measured by oxygen radical absorbent capacity(ORAC) Assay 1 at
 the treatment site.
 The present invention further provides a composition for treating skin damages in a
 mammalian subject the composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1
 halobacterial extract the extract comprising: (a)at least one water soluble fraction;
 and(b) at least one oil soluble fraction. The Archaebacteria DN-1 provides an anti
 oxidant activity as measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4; the activity substantially
 correlated with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 ptMolTE/100 g measured by
 ferric reducing ability of plasma (FRAP) Assay 4 at the treatment site.
                                              8

WO 2014/045280                                                           PCT/IL2013/050786
The present invention further provides a composition for treating skin damages in a
mammalian subject the composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1
halobacterial extract the extract comprising: (a)at least one water soluble fraction;
 and (b)at least one oil soluble fraction. The Archaebacteria DN- 1 provides an anti
 oxidant activity as measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4; the activity substantially
correlated with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 iMolTE/100 g measured by 2,2
 diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) Assay 4 at the treatment site.
 The present invention further provides a composition for treating skin damages in a
 mammalian subject the composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1
 halobacterial extract the extract comprising: (a)at least one water soluble fraction;
 and (b)at least one oil soluble fraction. The Archaebacteria DN-1 provides an anti
 oxidant activity as measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4; the activity substantially
 correlated with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 iMolTE/100 g measured by 3
 ethyl-benzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS) Assay 4 at the treatment site.
 The present invention further provides a composition for treating skin damages in a
 mammalian subject the composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1
 halobacterial extract the extract comprising: (a)at least one water soluble fraction;
 and (b) at least one oil soluble fraction. The Archaebacteria DN-1 provides an anti
 oxidant activity as measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4, the activity substantially
 correlated with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 pMolTE/100 g measured by
 Trolox Equivalent Antioxidant Capacity (TEAC)Assay 5 at the treatment site.
 The body serum measurement is taken form any body site.the serum total antioxidant
 capacity is expressed in mM Trolox equivalents.
 Halobacteria extract has potential applications as strong antioxidants which dissolved
 in oil and in water; the strong antioxidants have a capacity to inhibit oxidative
 mechanisms that leads to skin damages.
 The halobacteria extract has antioxidant activity due to its redox properties, resulting
 in increment of erythrocytes (RBC) , leukocytes (WBC) , Interleukin-6(IL-6)
 concentration and glutathione concentration .
 The increment of IL-6 a pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine secreted
 by T cells and macrophages, stimulates immune response, during infection and after
 trauma.
                                               9

WO 2014/045280                                                           PCT/IL2013/050786
The halobacteria extract further protects membranes from oxidation by reacting with
radicals produced in the chain reaction.
The present invention may provide Halobacteria extracts based food supplements,
pharmaceuticals, nuetraceuticals, cosmoceuticals, dressings and other extract based
products directed to scars, burns or different types of sores and more particularly
rehabilitation of the body tissue after radiation, alleviation of depression, both
topically and orally.
Several uses and benefits of the compositions may also be included such as:
Decreasing of clinical syndromes resulting from radiation in variety of systems (such
as the nerve system, digesting system and vascular system). Treating patient suffering
from cardiac, liver or vascular diseases with halobacteria compositions .Stabilization
and improvement of the immune system and also the endocrine system are also
made possible by some embodiments of the present invention.
The term "Halobacteria", " Archaebacteria ", "halophilic archaea halobacteria" as used
herein should be further understood also as Archaebacterium, Halobacterium
halobium.
Several side effects resulting from radiation therapy are usually limited to the area of
the patient's body that is under treatment. One of the aims of radiation therapy is to
reduce side effects to a minimum.
The main side effects reported are fatigue and skin irritation, such as a mild to
 moderate burn. The fatigue often sets in during the middle of a course of treatment
 and can last for weeks after treatment ends. The irritated skin will heal, but may not
be as elastic as it was before.
 There several Acute side effects resulting from radiation treatment.
 Damage to the epithelial surfaces;
 Epithelial surfaces may sustain damage from radiation therapy. Depending on the area
 being treated, this may include the skin, oral mucosa, pharyngeal, bowel mucosa and
 ureter. The rates of onset of damage and recovery from it depend upon the turnover
 rate of epithelial cells. Typically the skin starts to become pink and sore several weeks
 into treatment. The reaction may become more severe during the treatment and for up
 to about one week following the end of radiation therapy, and the skin may break
 down. Although this moist desquamation is uncomfortable, recovery is usually quick.
                                               10

WO 2014/045280                                                           PCT/IL2013/050786
Skin reactions tend to be worse in areas where there are natural folds in the skin, such
as underneath the female breast, behind the ear, and in the groin.
Mouth and throat sores;
If the head and neck area is treated, temporary soreness and ulceration commonly
occur in the mouth and throat. If severe, this can affect swallowing, and the patient
may need painkillers and nutritional support/food supplements. The esophagus can
also become sore if it is treated directly, or if, as commonly occurs, it receives a dose
of collateral radiation during treatment of lung cancer.
Late side effects occur months to years after treatment and are generally limited to the
area that has been treated. They are often due to damage of blood vessels and
connective tissue cells. Many late effects are reduced by fractionating treatment into
smaller parts.
Fibrosis;
Tissues which have been irradiated tend to become less elastic over time due to a
diffuse scarring process.
Epilation;
Epilation (hair loss) may occur on any hair bearing skin with doses above 1 Gy. It
 only occurs within the radiation field/s. Hair loss may be permanent with a single
 dose of 10 Gy, but if the dose is fractionated permanent hair loss may not occur until
 dose exceeds 45 Gy.
 Dryness;
 The salivary glands and tear glands have a radiation tolerance of about 30 Gy in 2 Gy
 fractions, a dose which is exceeded by most radical head and neck cancer treatments.
 Dry mouth (xerostomia) and dry eyes (xerophthalmia) can become irritating long
 term problems and severely reduce the patient's quality of life. Similarly, sweat glands
 in treated skin (such as the armpit) tend to stop working, and the naturally moist
 vaginal mucosa is often dry following pelvic irradiation.
 Lymphedema, a condition of localized fluid retention and tissue swelling, can result
 from damage to the lymphatic system sustained during radiation therapy. It is the
 most commonly reported complication in breast radiation therapy patients who
 receive adjuvant axillary radiotherapy following surgery to clear the axillary lymph
 nodes .
 Heart disease;
                                              11

WO 2014/045280                                                          PCT/IL2013/050786
Radiation has potentially excess risk of death from heart disease seen after some past
breast cancer RT regimens.
Radiation proctitis;
This can involve long-term effects on the rectum including bleeding, diarrhoea and
urgency and is associated with radiation therapy to pelvic organs. Pelvic radiation
therapy can also cause radiation cystitis when the bladder is affected
One of the adverse effects of chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatment for cancer is
mucositis, known as a painful inflammation and ulceration of the mucous membranes
lining the digestive tract. Mucositis can occur anywhere along the gastrointestinal
 (GI) tract, but oral mucositis refers to the particular inflammation and ulceration that
occurs in the mouth. Oral mucositis is a common and often debilitating complication
 of cancer treatment.
 Oral and gastrointestinal (GI) mucositis affects almost all patients undergoing high
 dose chemotherapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), 80% of
 patients with malignancies of the head and neck receiving radiotherapy, and a wide
 range of patients receiving chemotherapy. Alimentary tract mucositis increases
 mortality and morbidity and contributes to rising health care costs
 Radiotherapy to the head and neck or to the pelvis or abdomen is associated with
 Grade 3 and Grade 4 oral or GI mucositis, respectively, often exceeding 50% of
 patients. Among patients undergoing head and neck radiotherapy, pain and decreased
 oral function may persist long after the conclusion of therapy. Fractionated radiation
 dosage increases the risk of mucositis to > 70% of patients in most trials. Oral
 mucositis is particularly profound and prolonged among HSCT recipients who receive
 total-body irradiation.
 Cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy usually become symptomatic four to five
 days after beginning treatment, reaching a peak at around day 10, and then slowly
 improving over the course of a few weeks. Mucositis associated with radiotherapy
 usually appears at the end of the second week of treatment and may last for six to
 eight weeks.As a result of cell death in reaction to chemo- or radio-therapy, the
 mucosal lining of the mouth becomes thin, may slough off and then become red,
 inflamed and ulcerated. The ulcers may become covered by a yellowish white fibrin
  clot called a pseudomembrane. Peripheral erythema is usually present. Ulcers may
 range from 0.5 cm to greater than 4 cm. Oral mucositis can be severely painful. The
                                               12

WO 2014/045280                                                            PCT/IL2013/050786
degree of pain is usually related to the extent of the tissue damage. Pain is often
described as a burning sensation accompanied by reddening.
Sores or ulcerations results from the radiation can become infected by virus, bacteria
or fungus. Pain and loss of taste perception makes it more difficult to eat, which leads
to weight loss. Ulcers may act as a site for local infection and a portal of entry for oral
flora that, in some instances, may cause septicemia. Approximately half of all patients
who receive chemotherapy develop such severe oral mucositis that becomes dose
limiting such that the patient's cancer treatment must be modified, compromising the
prognosis.
The present invention provides a composition comprising Halobacteria extracts.
 Halobacteria are recognized as archaea, rather than bacteria. The name 'halobacteria'
 was assigned to this group of organisms before the existence of the domain Archaea
 was realized, and remains valid according to taxonomic rules. In a non-taxonomic
 context, halophilic archaea are also sometimes referred to as haloarchaea to
 distinguish them from halophilic bacteria.
 The composition comprises Archaebacteria DN-1 which is known also as DN-1
 homogenate of Halobacteria. The DN-1 homogenate contains two groups of
 antioxidants - water soluble and oil soluble, so it is an antioxidant containing extract
 with wide-ranging effects on body restoration after radiation, wounds, burns, pressure
 sores and scarring after surgery. The antioxidant promotes and increase mortality and
 further extends the life span. There are several ways to measure antioxidants activirty.
 The oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) is the current industry standard for
 assessing antioxidant strength of whole foods, juices and food additives. Other
 measurement tests include the Folin-Ciocalteu reagent, and the Trolox equivalent
 antioxidant capacity assay
 The halobacteria extracts composition of the present invention have the ability to both
 enhance and strengthen the human immune system. The composition further increases
 the body's natural resistance system, increases the body's capacity to withstand a
 successful bacterial and/or viral invasion, and boosts the body's ability to recuperate.
 This formulation also provides effective blood purification and detoxification.
 The product may be obtained in the following manner: the bacterial mass obtained
 from the culture of archaebacteria is first freed from its lipid constituents by two
  successive extractions, the first with a halogenated solvent and the second with a Cl
 C4 alkanol, and then extracted with distilled water. The extract obtained is then
                                               13

WO 2014/045280                                                          PCT/IL2013/050786
ultrafiltered in order to remove the residual inorganic salts. After evaporation and
drying of the filtrate under vacuum, a yellowish white powder is obtained exhibiting a
strong positive reaction to ninhydrin.
The method for extracting the product according to the invention is applied to
archaebacteria, preferably to halobacteria, and more particularly to Halobacterium
halobium.
The composition of the present invention may further comprises Dunaliella extracts.
The combination of halobacteria extracts with Dunaliella extract further provides
antioxidant activity and therefore increases the useful of the treatment of skin
damages resulting from radiation, surgery or any drug treatment (such as scars, burns,
bedsores and mucositis).
The Dunaliella, a halotolerant green alga, accumulate high concentration of      p
carotene when grown under defined condition. Dunaliella posses the ability to
 accumulate very large amounts of p-carotene(more than 10% of the algae dry weight)
under defined condition. The extent of P-carotene accumulation was shown to have a
 direct function of the integral amount of light and high NaCl concentration to which
 the algae are exposed during a division cycle.
 P -carotene possesses powerful anti-cancer properties.   By reducing the amount of
harmful free radicals in the body that can otherwise damage the DNA which further
 promotes cosmetic-related problems such as wrinkles and, on a more serious note, it
 can increase a subject risk of cancer. Dunaliella known to have a direct influence on
 the immune cells. Dunaliella further contains another carotenoid called zeaxanthin, a
 valuable antioxidant with the ability to both help prevent and treat debilitating
 condition that causes progressive vision loss.
 The present invention further presents a method of producing an Archaebacteria DN- 1
 fraction comprising the steps of: (a)obtaining a bacterial mass by culturing
 archaebacteria, (b)dispersing a quantity of the bacterial mass in a solvent to form a
 solution, (c)extracting the solution with a halogenated solvent, (d)extracting the
 solution with a Cl-C4 alkanol, and (e)extracting the solution with water.
 The halobacteria extract is Archaebacteria DN-1 having an anti oxidant activity
 which has a wide range impact on rehabilitation of the skin tissue after radiation; the
 activity substantially correlated with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 ptMol
 Trolox Equivalent /100 g at the treatment site.
                                              14

WO 2014/045280                                                            PCT/IL2013/050786
The method of the present invention as defined above, further wherein the
composition
is for decreasing of clinical syndromes resulting from radiation in variety of systems
such as the nerve system, digesting system and vascular system.
The method of the present invention as defined above, further wherein the
composition is for treating cardiac, liver or vascular diseases, stabilization and
improvement of the immune system and the endocrine system.
The method of the present invention as defined above, wherein the composition
comprises by weight, 2.5%-10% Archaebacteria DN-1.
The method of the present invention as defined above, wherein the delivering manner
is selected from the group consisting of: a gel, a milk, a lotion, a serum, a mask,
ointments or a cream.
The method of the present invention as defined above, wherein the composition treats
skin blemish such as scars, bums or/ and bedsores resulting from radiation, surgery or
any drug treatment.
The method of the present invention as defined above, wherein the composition
comprising halobacterial extract, promotes rehabilitation of the body tissue after
radiation, alleviation of depression, reduction of clinical syndromes resulting from
radiation ,treatment of cardiac, liver or vascular diseases, stabilization and
 improvement of the immune system and the endocrine system.
The method of the present invention as defined above, wherein the composition
 further comprises , preservatives, surfactants, humectants ,emulsifiers, thickening
 agents, perfumes, preservatives, vegetable or mineral oils, antiseptic agents,
 acidifying or alkalinizing agents, vitamins, anti-UV agents, solvents, pH-stabilizing
 agents, silicones and combination thereof.
 The method of the present invention as defined above, wherein the halobacteria
 extract has antioxidant activity due to its redox properties, resulting in increment of
 erythrocytes (RBC) , leukocytes (WBC) , Interleukin-6(IL-6) concentration and
 glutathione concentration
 Extraction of Halobacteria Homogenate DN-1.
 Homogenate from red halobacteria-Archea and microalgae Dunalielia isolated in
 7.5% NaCl and pH =7
 Extraction halobacteria homogenate DN-1 obtained from Halobacterium halobium,
 preparing a salt stock solution: Adding 240L of NaCl, 30L of MgCL 2 *6H 2 0,35L OF
                                              15

WO 2014/045280                                                         PCT/IL2013/050786
MgSO 4 *7H 20,7L KCl to a flask. Adding pure water to near the final required volume
of the same flask. the salt then dissolved using a magnetic stirrer.
Adding CaCl 2*2H 2 0
Adjusting the PH of the flask solution up to 7 by using IM TrisC1 buffer.
Transferring the above solution to a graduated cylinder and toping up with water to
the exact final volume.
A quantity of bacterial mass is dispersed beforehand and been added to the solution
described below:
Adding 767ml from the above salt stock solution, 200ml of pure water, 5g of peptone,
 1g of yeast extract, 3g of microalgae powder, Dunaliella and lg of Casein.
Adjusting the volume with 1000ml of pure water.
Sterilization the culture by using an autoclave
Incubating the culture for sufficient time and temperature yielding
Suspending the culture for two weeks
A solution of microalgae Dunaliella is added to a solution of 10-day halobacteria
culture and the obtained mixture is incubated at temperature 25'C and permanent
 illumination.
The algae is cultivated in a growth medium comprising:
 Salt                   g/liter
 240                    NaCl
 30                     MgCL 2*6H 20,
 35                     MgSO 4 *7H 20
 7                      KCl,
 0.2                    CaCl 2*2H 20
 1.0                    KNO 3
 0.035                  KH 2 PO4
 The cultivation is adjusted to pH=7
 Centrifugation of the 2 weeks old culture for 7500RPM, 4"C, yielding a sediment
 Isolating the sediment and re-suspending it within a solution of 2M NaCl + 0.15M
 MgCl 2 .
 Centrifugation of the solution is performed for 7500RPM, 4"C, yielding a sediment
 Isolating the sediment layer and re-suspending it within a solution of 7.5% NaCl
                                             16

WO 2014/045280                                                          PCT/IL2013/050786
Sonicating the above solution three times each time for 15sec. while in between each
time cooling the solution in a n ice bath until a different is shown in the color and
turbidity or transparency of the solution
Centrifugation      of the   solution is performed yield separation        fractions (the
centrifugation procedure is performed in 7500RPM 4*C for 10min) The resulting
sediment is isolated and kept in (-4)"C .
          In the foregoing description, embodiments of the invention, including
preferred embodiments, have been presented for the purpose of illustration and
description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the
precise form disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the
above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described to provide the best
illustration of the principals of the invention and its practical application, and to
enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments
 and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. All
 such modifications and variations are within the scope of the invention as determined
by the appended claims when interpreted in accordance with the breadth they are
 fairly, legally, and equitably entitled.
                                            17

WO 2014/045280                                                          PCT/IL2013/050786
 CLAIMS
   1. A composition for treating skin damage comprising halobacteria extracts,
       said halobacteria extracts comprising strong antioxidants with high redox
       potential when dissolved in oil and in water; said strong antioxidants
       inhibiting known oxidative mechanisms correlated with skin damage;
       wherein said halobacteria extract is Archaebacteria DN-1 which has a wide
       range impact on rehabilitation of the skin tissue after radiation; said
       composition is adapted for topical delivery.
   2. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said composition further
       comprises Dunaliella extracts.
   3.  A composition for treating skin damage in a mammalian subject, said
       composition comprising: a Archaebacteria DN-1 halobacterial extracts, said
       extracts comprising:
           a. at least one water soluble fraction; and
           b. at least one oil soluble fraction;
       wherein said Archaebacteria DN- 1 provides an anti oxidant activity as
       measured by any of in vitro Assay 1-4; said activity substantially correlated
       with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 [tMol Trolox Equivalent /100 g
       measured by oxygen radical absorbent capacity(ORAC) Assay 1 at the
       treatment site.
   4. A composition for treating skin damage in a mammalian subject said
       composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1 halobacterial extracts, said
       extracts comprising:
                a. at least one water soluble fraction; and
                b.  at least one oil soluble fraction;
       wherein said Archaebacteria DN-1 provides an anti oxidant activity as
       measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4; said activity substantially correlated
       with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 [tMol Trolox Equivalent /100 g
       measured by ferric reducing ability of plasma (FRAP) Assay 4 at the
       treatment site.
   5. A composition for treating skin damage in a mammalian subject said
       composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1 halobacterial extracts, said
       extracts comprising:
                c. at least one water soluble fraction; and
                                             18

WO 2014/045280                                                        PCT/IL2013/050786
                d.  at least one oil soluble fraction;
       wherein said Archaebacteria DN-1 provides an anti oxidant activity as
       measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4; said activity substantially correlated
       with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 pMol Trolox Equivalent /100 g
       measured by 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) Assay 4 at the treatment
       site
   6. A composition for treating skin damage in a mammalian subject said
       composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1 halobacterial extracts, said
       extracts comprising:
                e.  at least one water soluble fraction; and
                f.   at least one oil soluble fraction;
       wherein said Archaebacteria DN- 1 provides an anti oxidant activity as
       measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4; said activity substantially correlated
       with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 pMol Trolox Equivalent /100 g
       measured by 3-ethyl-benzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS) Assay 4 at the
       treatment site.
   7. A composition for treating skin damage in a mammalian subject said
       composition comprising a Archaebacteria DN-1 halobacterial extracts, said
       extracts comprising:
                g. at least one water soluble fraction; and
                h.   at least one oil soluble fraction;
        wherein said Archaebacteria DN-1 provides an anti oxidant activity as
        measured by any of in vitro assay 1-4, said activity substantially correlated
        with a body serum TAC of at least 167.1 p.Mol Trolox Equivalent /100 g
        measured by Trolox Equivalent Antioxidant Capacity (TEAC)Assay 5 at the
        treatment site.
    8. The composition according to claim 7, wherein said body serum measurement
        is taken from any body site.
    9. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said halobacteria extracts
        provides antioxidant and redox potential to a wound site, correllated with an
        increase in erythrocytes (RBC) , leukocytes (WBC) , Interleukin-6(IL-6)
        concentration and glutathione concentration in a treated subject compared
        with an untreated control..
                                              19

WO 2014/045280                                                           PCT/IL2013/050786
   10. The composition according to claim 3-7, wherein said assay 1-5 measurement
        of total antioxidant activity is performed in a serum sample of said
        composition or in an object plasma tissue.
   11. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said halobacteria extract
        protects membranes from oxidation by reacting with radicals produced in the
        chain reaction.
   12. The composition according to claim 1, further wherein said composition
        is for decreasing of clinical syndromes resulting from radiation in variety of
        systems such as the nerve system , digesting system and vascular system.
   13. The composition according to claim 1, further wherein said composition is for
        treating cardiac, liver or vascular diseases, stabilization and improvement of
        the immune system and the endocrine system.
   14. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said composition comprises
        by weight, 2.5%-10% Archaebacteria DN-1.
   15. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said delivering manner is
        selected from the group consisting of: a gel, a milk, a lotion, a serum, a mask,
        ointments or a cream.
   16. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said skin damage is selected
        from the group consisting of : skin blemish, scars, bums, mucositis or/and
        bedsores resulting from radiation treatment , surgery or any drug treatment.
   17. A skin damage treatment composition comprising halobacterial extract,
        promotes rehabilitation of the body tissue after radiation, alleviation of
        depression, reduction of clinical syndromes resulting from radiation ,treatment
        of cardiac, liver or vascular diseases, stabilization and improvement of the
        immune system and the endocrine system.
    18. A skin damage treatment composition comprising halobacterial extract, further
        comprises , preservatives, surfactants, humectants ,emulsifiers, thickening
        agents, perfumes, preservatives, vegetable or mineral oils, antiseptic agents,
         acidifying or alkalinizing agents, vitamins, anti-UV agents, solvents, pH
         stabilizing agents, silicones and combination thereof.
    19. A method of producing an Archaebacteria DN-1 fraction comprising the steps
         of:
             a. obtaining a bacterial mass by culturing archaebacteria;
                                              20

WO 2014/045280                                                           PCT/IL2013/050786
            b. dispersing a quantity of the bacterial mass in a solvent to form a
                 solution;
            c. extracting the solution with a halogenated solvent;
             d. extracting the solution with a C1-C4 alkanol; and
             e. extracting the solution with water;
        wherein said halobacteria extract is Archaebacteria DN-l having an anti
        oxidant activity which has a wide range impact on rehabilitation of the skin
        tissue after radiation; said activity substantially correlated with a body serum
        TAC of at least 167.1 tMol Trolox Equivalent /100 g at the treatment site.
   20. The method according to claim 19, further wherein said composition
        is for decreasing of clinical syndromes resulting from radiation in variety of
        systems such as the nerve system , digesting system and vascular system.
   21. The method according to claim 19, further wherein said composition is for
        treating cardiac, liver or vascular diseases, stabilization and improvement of
        the immune system and the endocrine system.
   22. The method according to claim 19, wherein said composition comprises by
        weight, 2.5%- 10% Archaebacteria DN- 1.
   23. The method according to claim 18, wherein said delivering manner is selected
        from the group consisting of: a gel, a milk, a lotion, a serum, a mask,
        ointments or a cream.
   24. The method according to claim 19, wherein the composition treats skin
        blemish such as scars, burns or/ and bedsores resulting from radiation, surgery
        or any drug treatment.
   25. The method according to claim 19, wherein said composition comprising
        halobacterial extract, promotes rehabilitation of the body tissue after radiation,
        alleviation of depression, reduction of clinical syndromes resulting from
        radiation ,treatment of cardiac, liver or vascular diseases, stabilization and
        improvement of the immune system and the endocrine system.
    26. The method according to claim 19, wherein said composition further
        comprises , preservatives, surfactants, humectants ,emulsifiers, thickening
        agents, perfumes, preservatives, vegetable or mineral oils, antiseptic agents,
         acidifying or alkalinizing agents, vitamins, anti-UV agents, solvents, pH
         stabilizing agents, silicones and combination thereof.
                                              21

WO 2014/045280                                                           PCT/IL2013/050786
   27. The method according to claim 19, wherein said halobacteria extract has
       antioxidant activity due to its redox properties, resulting in increment of
       erythrocytes (RBC) , leukocytes (WBC) , Interleukin-6(IL-6) concentration
       and glutathione concentration .
                                            22

