         IMAGE ANALYSIS AND MEASUREMENT OF BIOLOGICAL
                                          SAMPLES
                                          ABSTRACT
5         Methods, devices, apparatus, and systems are provided for image analysis. Methods
  of image analysis may include observation, measurement, and analysis of images of
  biological and other samples; devices, apparatus, and systems provided herein are useful for
  observation, measurement, and analysis of images of such samples. The methods, devices,
  apparatus, and systems disclosed herein provide advantages over other methods, devices,
0 apparatus, and systems.
                                               126

        IMAGE ANALYSIS AND MEASUREMENT OF BIOLOGICAL
                                            SAMPLES
                                RELATED APPLICATION
     [0001]      This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. 2014217946, filed 18 February 2014, the content of which is hereby incorporated in its
entirety.
                                         BACKGROUND
     10002J      Analysis of biological samples from a subject may be important for health
related diagnosing, monitoring, or treating of the subject. A variety of methods are known
for the analysis of biological samples. However, in order to provide better diagnosing,
monitoring, or treating of subjects, improvements in the analysis of biological samples are
desired.
                            INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
     100031      All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this
specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual
publication, patent, or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be
incorporated by reference.
                                            SUMMARY
     100041      Methods, devices, systems, and apparatuses described herein are useful for
optical and image analysis or measurement of biological and other samples.
     100051      Embodiments disclosed herein include sample holders suitable for holding
samples, including biological samples, for optical examination, for optical measurement, and
for other examinations and measurements. In embodiments, a sample holder having an
optically transmissive portion and a portion configured to provide internal reflection of light
within the sample holder is provided. In embodiments, internal reflections may include partial
internal reflection and may include total internal reflection of light. Incident light from an
external light source, and directed from one side of the sample holder, is effective to
illuminate a sample within the sample holder from a plurality of directions. In embodiments,
an external light source disposed on one side of the sample holder may provide epi
illumination of a sample within the sample holder; may provide trans-illumination of a
                                                -1
14606381_1

sample within the sample holder; or may provide both epi-illumination and trans-illumination
of a sample within the sample holder.
     10006]      Embodiments disclosed herein include systems including sample holders
suitable for holding samples. Such systems are suitable for use in examining and measuring
samples, including biological samples, by, e.g., optical examination, optical measurement,
and for other examinations and measurements. In embodiments, a system disclosed herein
comprises a sample holder having an optically transmissive portion and a portion configured
to provide internal reflection of light within the sample holder is provided. In embodiments,
internal reflections within a sample holder of a system disclosed herein may include partial
internal reflection and may include total internal reflection of light. Systems disclosed herein
may include light sources. Incident light from a light source external to a sample holder, and
directed from one side of the sample holder, is effective to illuminate a sample within the
sample holder from a plurality of directions. In embodiments, a light source disposed external
to, and on one side of, the sample holder may provide epi-illumination of a sample within the
sample holder; may provide trans-illumination of a sample within the sample holder; or may
provide both epi-illumination and trans-illumination of a sample within the sample holder.
Systems disclosed herein may include a detector, or detectors; such detectors may include
optical detectors, and may include other detectors. Such detectors are suitable for, and are
configured to, make measurements of a sample and of objects and characteristics of a sample
and objects in a sample within a sample holder; such measurements may include qualitative
measurements and quantitative measurements. Embodiments of systems as disclosed herein
may include filters, apertures, gratings, lenses, and other optical elements. Embodiments of
systems as disclosed herein may include mechanical apparatus for locating, moving, and
adjusting a sample holder, a light source, a lens, a filter, or other element or component of a
system as disclosed herein. Embodiments of systems as disclosed herein may include
components and elements for transferring, aliquotting, holding, heating, mixing, staining,
conditioning, or otherwise preparing, manipulating or altering a sample. Embodiments of
systems as disclosed herein may include components and elements for transporting, securing,
filling, or otherwise manipulating a sample holder. Embodiments of systems as disclosed
herein may include components and elements for physical manipulation and treatment of a
sample, and for physical manipulation of a sample holder, where such components and
elements may include, without limitation, a pipette, a pump, a centrifuge, other mechanical
apparatus for moving and manipulating a sample, a sample holder, pipette tips, vessels, and
reagents for use with a sample, or portion thereof. Embodiments of systems as disclosed
                                                -2
14606381_1

herein may include components and elements for chemical analysis, including nucleic acid
analysis, protein analysis, general chemistry analysis, electrochemical analysis, and other
analyses of a sample or portion thereof.
     10007]      Sample holders and systems disclosed herein may be used, and methods
disclosed herein may be performed, at any location, including a clinical laboratory, a research
laboratory, a clinic, a hospital, a doctor's office, a point of service location, and any other
suitable location. Samples held by sample holders disclosed herein, and samples examined
using systems and methods disclosed herein, include any biological sample, and may be
small biological samples. In embodiments, a sample may be a small blood or urine sample,
and may have a volume of less than about 250 pL, or less than about 150 piL, or less than
about 100 pL, or less than about 50 gL, or less than about 25 pLL, or less than about 15 pL, or
may be the same as or less than the volume of blood obtained from a finger-stick.
     100081      In one embodiment, a method for the measurement of a component of interest
in cells of a cellular population in a sample is provided, including: a) obtaining a quantitative
measurement of a marker present in cells of the cellular population in the sample; b) based on
the measurement of part a), determining, with the aid of a computer, an approximate amount
of cells in the cellular population present in the sample; c) based on the results of part b),
selecting an amount of reagent to add to the sample, wherein the reagent binds specifically to
the component of interest in cells of the cellular population and is configured to be readily
detectable; d) based on the results of part c), adding the selected amount of the reagent to the
sample; e) assaying cells in the sample for reagent bound to the component of interest; and f)
based on the amount of reagent bound to the component of interest, determining the amount
of the component of interest in cells of the cellular population of the sample. In an
embodiment of the method, the reagent of part c) is an antibody.
     [0009]      Applicants further disclose herein a method for the measurement of a
component of interest in cells of a cellular population in a sample, comprising: a) obtaining a
quantitative measurement of a marker present in cells, or of a property of cells, of the cellular
population in the sample; b) determining, with the aid of a computer, an approximate amount
of cells in the cellular population present in the sample based on the measurement of part a);
c) adding an amount of a cell marker to the sample, where the amount of said cell marker
added is based on the results of part b), and wherein the cell marker binds specifically to the
component of interest in cells of the cellular population and is configured to be readily
detectable; d) assaying cells in the sample for marker bound to the component of interest; and
                                                 -3
14606381_1

e) determining the amount of the component of interest in cells of the cellular population of
the sample based on the amount of marker bound to the component of interest.
     [0010]      In another embodiment, a method for focusing a microscope is provided,
including: a) mixing a sample containing an object for microscopic analysis with a reference
particle having a known size, to generate a mixture containing the sample and reference
particle; b) positioning the mixture of step a) into a light path of a microscope; c) exposing
the mixture of step a) to a light beam configured to visualize the reference particle; and d)
focusing the microscope based on the position of the reference particle within the mixture, or
based on the sharpness of the image of the reference particle.
     [0011]      In yet another embodiment, provided herein is a method for identifying a cell
in a sample containing a plurality of cells, including: a) assaying a cell of the plurality of cells
for at least one of: (i) the presence of a cell surface antigen; (ii) the amount of a cell surface
antigen; or (iii) cell size; b) assaying the cell of a) for at least one of: (i) nuclear size; or (ii)
nuclear shape; and c) assaying the cell of a) and b) for quantitative cell light scatter, wherein
the combination of information from steps a), b) and c) is used to identify the cell in the
sample containing a plurality of cells.
     10012J      In yet another embodiment, provided herein is a system comprising a detector
assembly for use with a sample holder that holds a sample to be examined. In one non
limiting example, the sample holder is a cuvette that has features or materials in it that enable
the cuvette to be engaged and moved from one location to the detector assembly. In some
embodiments, the detector assembly has a first surface that is configured to engage a surface
of the sample holder in a manner such that the interface between the two does not create
optical interference in the optical pathway from the detector assembly to the sample in the
sample holder. In one embodiment, there may be more than one location on the detector
assembly for one or more of the sample holders. Some embodiments may have the same
sample holder for each of the locations. Optionally, some embodiments may have different
sample holders for at least some of the locations associated with the detector assembly.
     100131      In one embodiment described herein, a sample holder is provided herein such
as but not limited to a cuvette with optical properties, dimensions, materials, or physical
features that allow for it to hold the sample for analysis by the detector assembly while
keeping it physically separate from and not in direct contact with the detector assembly. This
can be particularly useful for sample fluids that contain shaped members therein.
     100141      In one embodiment described herein, the detector assembly may be a multi
channel microscopy unit that is configured to detect, obtain, or measure the shape, and
                                                  -4
14606381_1

physical, optical, and biochemical properties of a cell or cells in a sample, all in the same
device. It can provide both quantitative information, and descriptive information. One
embodiment of the detector assembly may use multiple markers of the same color or
wavelength, where the detector assembly is configured to deconvolute signals originating
from such markers in a sample (e.g., bound to cells in a sample), allowing for a reduction in
number of spectral channels and light sources required in the assembly.
     10015]      It should be understood that some embodiments herein may include a sample
holder such as but not limited to a cuvette with physical features in the shape of the cuvette
material that increase dark field illumination where some features are configured to provide
for light reflectance (including, but not limited to, reflectance of light within the cuvette), and
some features may optionally be configured for mechanical support; in embodiments, some
features may provide mechanical support and also provide for light reflectance. In
embodiments, a sample holder is configured to provide trans-illumination of a sample by
reflection of light within the sample holder. In embodiments, a sample holder is configured to
provide trans-illumination of a sample by reflection of light within the sample holder; such
reflectance may include partial internal reflection (PIR, also known as Fresnel reflection), and
such reflectance may include total internal reflectance (TIR). In embodiments, a sample
holder is configured to provide trans-illumination of a sample by reflection of light within the
sample holder, wherein the source of the reflected light is disposed on the same side of the
sample holder as the optics used to detect or measure the light (i.e., the light source is an epi
illumination light source).
     10016]      The system herein can simultaneously use both epi (direct) and trans
(reflected) illumination in dark field imaging. This differs from traditional dark field imaging
which uses either epi-illumination, or trans-illumination, but not both types of illumination,
and not both types of illumination from a single source or single direction or location. Thus,
the combination of epi- and trans-illumination disclosed herein, wherein the trans
illumination originates from the same light source as the epi-illumination, differs from known
systems. Optionally, the use of a shaped sample holder such as the cuvette can be used to
provide the trans-illumination. In embodiments, a shaped sample holder is configured to
provide trans-illumination by reflection of light. In embodiments, a shaped sample holder is
configured to provide trans-illumination by reflection of light within the sample holder. In
embodiments, one or more of the size, shape, surface, materials, or other feature of a shaped
sample holder is effective to provide internal reflection of light within the shaped sample
holder. In embodiments, one or more of the size, shape, surface, materials, or other feature of
                                                -5
14606381_1

a shaped sample holder is effective to provide partial internal reflection (PIR) of light within
the shaped sample holder. In embodiments, one or more of the size, shape, surface, materials,
or other feature of a shaped sample holder is effective to provide total internal reflection
(TIR) of light within the shaped sample holder. Optionally, the intensity of trans-illumination
is non-negligible. In embodiments, a shaped sample holder may include a reflective surface
effective to increase trans-illumination light intensity. The dark field light source may be a
light-emitting diode (LED), laser, or other illumination source that can provide the desired
illumination or excitation wavelength(s).
     10017]      In one embodiment, the combination of the microscope objective and light
source such as but not limited to a ringlight (for dark field microscopy) is at a physical
distance between them that enables a compact size for the detector assembly. In one
embodiment, only light at a desired wavelength or within a desired range of wavelengths are
directed to the sample. In one embodiment, the light is non-polarized light. In another
embodiment, the light is polarized light.
     10018]      In yet another embodiment, information from the cytometry assay, either from
the sample preparation phase or from the analysis phase, is used to guide or trigger a
secondary procedure. In embodiments, such a secondary procedure may be to provide an
alert for direct human review. In embodiments, such a secondary procedure may be to use an
estimated cell count or other information obtained during a sample preparation step of a
procedure in order to guide the performance of an assay, where such assay may be an assay in
a later step of the procedure, or may be an assay in another procedure.
     10019]      Techniques for counting cells can also provide ways to deal with sample
holders with uneven shapes or chamber surfaces. One method comprises using: a) a volume
metered channel technique to introduce a known volume of a sample into an analysis area,
such as a channel in the sample holder. The method may include counting all cells in the
sample holder. Since one knows the volume of sample, one also knows the concentration of
cells in volume (this may be performed in hydrophobic containers or cuvettes or sample
holders with chambers with such surfaces). Another method comprises: b) a ratio-based
metric technique to mix sample with a known amount of beads, which is used to calculate the
concentration of cells in the sample based on the number of beads observed.
     10020]      In yet another embodiment described herein, a method is provided comprising
measuring formed blood components such as but not limited to measuring red blood cell
(RBC) volume in a blood sample by causing the RBCs to assume substantially spherical
shapes, and measuring the RBC volume using dark field microscopy.
                                                -6
14606381_1

     10021]      In yet another embodiment described herein, a method is provided comprising
measuring platelet volume. The method may include labeling platelets with a fluorescent dye
and measuring the size of the platelets observed; adding beads of known size to the sample;
and comparing the observed size of images of the beads to the observed images of the
platelets, using the beads as calibration to determine the size of the platelets and to determine
the platelet volume in the sample.
     10022]      In yet further embodiments described herein, methods are provided for
detecting and measuring, in a sample, cell morphology; measurement of cell numbers;
detection of particles; measurement of particle numbers; detection of crystals; measurement
of crystal numbers; detection of cell aggregates; measurement of numbers of cell aggregates;
and other properties and quantities of or in a sample.
     10023]      Accordingly, Applicants disclose herein:
     10024]      A system for analyzing a sample, the system comprising: a sample holder
comprising a sample chamber configured to hold said sample, at least a portion of said
sample holder comprising an optically transmissive material, said optically transmissive
material comprising an optically transmissive surface and a reflective surface; and an
illumination source configured to provide light that illuminates and passes through said
optically transmissive surface; wherein said sample holder is configured effective that said
light from said illumination source simultaneously provides both epi-illumination and trans
illumination to a sample in the sample holder, where epi-illumination comprises light
traveling from said illumination source to said sample without reflection at a surface of the
optically transmissive material of the sample holder, and where trans-illumination comprises
light traveling within the optically transmissive material and to the sample following at least
one reflection from at least one surface of said optically transmissive material. In
embodiments, a sample holder of a system having the features disclosed herein may comprise
a cuvette having an elongated channel configured for holding a sample. In embodiments, the
sample holder may have one or more optically non-transmissive surfaces.
     10025]      In embodiments of systems disclosed herein, said trans-illumination may be
provided at least in part by internal reflection of light at a surface, and may be provided at
least in part by total internal reflection of light within the cuvette. In embodiments of systems
disclosed herein, said trans-illumination may be provided at least in part by partial internal
reflection of light at a surface, and may be provided at least in part by partial internal
reflection of light within the cuvette.
                                                  -7
14606381_1

     10026]      In embodiments, a sample holder may have two or more sample chambers for
holding sample. A sample holder, e.g., a cuvette, having feature disclosed herein may have a
rectangular horizontal, cross-sectional shape; may have a circular horizontal, cross-sectional
shape; may have a saw tooth vertical cross-sectional shape; may have a step-shaped vertical
cross-sectional shape; or may have another shape.
     10027]      In embodiments, a sample holder may be movable relative to an illumination
source, and may be movable to a plurality of locations, wherein an optically transmissive
surface of the sample holder may be illuminated by the illumination source at each location.
     10028]      In embodiments, an illumination source may include a ringlight. In
embodiments, a ringlight may be selected from a light emitting diode (LED)-based ringlight
and a laser-based ringlight.
     10029]      In embodiments, a system as disclosed herein may include a support structure
having an optically transmissive surface shaped to engage an optically transmissive surface of
the sample holder.
     10030]      In embodiments, a system as disclosed herein may have a compression device
configured to retain the sample holder in a desired location for illumination by the
illumination source.
     10031]      In embodiments, a system as disclosed herein may include a detector
configured to image at least a portion of a channel in the sample holder.
     10032]      In embodiments, a sample holder as disclosed herein may include an elongated
channel configured to contain at least a portion of the sample, and wherein a detector is
configured to image an entire elongated channel in the sample holder.
     10033]      In embodiments, a sample holder as disclosed herein may be configured to
hold the sample in a static, non-flowing manner during imaging; in embodiments, a sample
holder may be configured to hold one portion of the sample in a static, non-flowing manner
and another portion in a flowing manner.
     10034]      In embodiments, an illumination source as disclosed herein may be movable
relative to the sample holder.
     10035]      In embodiments, a sample holder as disclosed herein may be configured to
hold the sample in a flowing manner during imaging.
     10036]      In embodiments, a sample holder as disclosed herein may include a fluid
circuit fully confined in the sample holder, and wherein the sample is located in said fluid
circuit, effective that the sample remains separate from said detector.
                                               -8
14606381_1

     10037]      In embodiments, a sample holder as disclosed herein is movable relative to the
detector. In embodiments, a detector as disclosed herein is movable relative to the sample
holder.
     100381      In embodiments, a sample holder and an illumination source as disclosed
herein comprise at least part of an optical analysis unit, and the system further includes a
clinical analysis unit configured to perform clinical analysis on a sample.
     10039]      In embodiments, a system as disclosed herein is configured to provide an
aliquot of a single sample to an optical analysis unit and to a clinical analysis unit, effective
that the clinical analysis unit and the optical analysis unit may perform optical analysis and
clinical analysis on portions of a sample at the same time. In embodiments, such a clinical
analysis may be selected from general chemical analysis, nucleic acid analysis, and enzyme
linked binding analysis.
     100401      In embodiments, a system as disclosed herein may include a plurality of
clinical analysis units, wherein each of such clinical analysis units is configured to provide a
clinical analysis selected from general chemical analysis, nucleic acid analysis, and enzyme
linked binding analysis.
     100411      Applicants further provide a cuvette comprising a sample chamber configured
to hold a sample, at least a portion of said cuvette comprising an optically transmissive
material, said optically transmissive material comprising an optically transmissive surface
and a reflective surface, wherein said optically transmissive surface and said reflective
surface are configured effective that light passing through the optically transmissive surface
simultaneously provides both epi-illumination and trans-illumination to said sample in the
sample chamber, where epi-illumination comprises light traveling from said illumination
source to the sample without reflection at a surface of the optically transmissive material, and
where trans-illumination comprises light traveling within the optically transmissive material
and to the sample following at least one reflection from at least one surface of said optically
transmissive material.
     100421      In embodiments, a cuvette as disclosed herein has a sample chamber
comprising an elongated channel. In embodiments, a cuvette as disclosed herein comprises
two or more sample chambers for holding sample. In embodiments, a cuvette may comprise a
curved, including U-shaped, channel. In embodiments, a cuvette may comprise a plurality of
channels. In embodiments, a sample chamber comprises an inlet port. In embodiments, a
sample chamber comprises a vent effective to allow air or gas to pass in or out (e.g., during
filling of the chamber with a sample). In embodiments, an inlet port may comprise, or may
                                                -9
14606381_1

serve as, a vent. In embodiments, a vent may comprise or be covered with a membrane
effective to reduce or prevent evaporation of fluid held within the channel. In embodiments,
an elongated channel of a cuvette may comprise a vent covered with a porous membrane
effective to reduce or prevent evaporation of fluid held within the channel. In embodiments,
an adhesive; a membrane coated on one or two sides with an adhesive layer; ultrasonic
welding; or combinations thereof may be used in the fabrication of a cuvette.
     100431      In embodiments, a cuvette as disclosed herein may have one or more optically
non-transmissive surfaces.
     100441      In embodiments, trans-illumination may be provided in a cuvette as disclosed
herein, at least in part by internal reflection of light within the cuvette. In embodiments, trans
illumination may be provided in a cuvette as disclosed herein, at least in part by partial
internal reflection of light at a surface of the cuvette. In embodiments, trans-illumination may
be provided in a cuvette as disclosed herein, at least in part by total internal reflection of light
at a surface of the cuvette.
     100451      In embodiments, a cuvette as disclosed herein may have a rectangular
horizontal, cross-sectional shape; in embodiments, a cuvette as disclosed herein may have a
circular horizontal, cross-sectional shape. In embodiments, a cuvette as disclosed herein may
have a saw tooth vertical cross-sectional shape; in embodiments, a cuvette as disclosed herein
may have a step-shaped vertical cross-sectional shape.
     10046]      Applicants disclose methods herein. For example, Applicants disclose herein a
method of identifying a cell in a sample containing a plurality of cells, comprising: (a)
placing said sample in a sample holder comprising a sample chamber configured to hold the
sample, at least a portion of said sample holder comprising an optically transmissive material,
said optically transmissive material comprising an optically transmissive surface and a
reflective surface, wherein said optically transmissive surface and said reflective surface are
configured effective that light passing through the optically transmissive surface
simultaneously provides both epi-illumination and trans-illumination to the sample in the
sample chamber, where epi-illumination comprises light traveling from said illumination
source to the sample without reflection at a surface of the optically transmissive material, and
where trans-illumination comprises light traveling within the optically transmissive material
and to the sample following at least one reflection from at least one surface of said optically
transmissive material; (b) illuminating said sample holder effective to simultaneously provide
both epi-illumination and trans-illumination of the sample; and (c) identifying a cell in the
sample. In embodiments, methods disclosed herein include methods wherein said identifying
                                                 -10
14606381_1

comprises identifying said cell with a detector configured to image at least a portion of said
sample chamber. In embodiments disclosed herein, a sample chamber for use in such
methods may comprise an elongated channel.
     10047]      Applicants further disclose herein a method for focusing a microscope,
comprising: a) mixing a sample containing an object for microscopic analysis with a
reference particle having a known size, effective to generate a mixture containing the sample
and reference particle; b) positioning the mixture of step a) into a light path of a microscope;
c) exposing the mixture of step a) to a light beam configured to visualize the reference
particle; and d) focusing the microscope based on the position of the reference particle within
the mixture or based on the sharpness of an image of the reference particle.
     100481      Applicants further disclose herein methods for processing samples, comprising
mixing a sample directly with a reagent comprising beads and antibodies, wherein the beads
are of a known size and at a known concentration, and the antibodies are useful for labeling
targets within the sample. In embodiments, Applicants disclose methods for processing blood
samples, comprising mixing a sample of whole blood with a reagent comprising beads and
antibodies, wherein the beads are of a known size and at a known concentration, and the
antibodies are useful for labeling blood cells within the sample. Such methods provide
improved accuracy and precision of sample analysis, e.g., improved accuracy and precision
of blood cell numbers and characteristics, and reduce the sensitivity of sample analysis to
inaccuracies derived from sample transfer, mixing, and aliquotting. In one non-limiting
example, by analyzing the number of beads in a sample, one can infer the number of cells if
the ratio of cells-to-beads is known and that ratio is maintained during each dilution step. It
should be understood that every dilution step could have variance due to sample dispense and
diluent dispense. By starting with a solution of beads and reagents into which an undiluted
sample is added, the system becomes insensitive to inaccuracies of the dispense steps so long
as the ratio of formed components such as but not limited beads and cells does not change.
     [0049]      Applicants disclose herein a method of identifying a cell in a sample
containing a plurality of cells, comprising: (a) assaying a cell of the plurality of cells for at
least one of: (i) the presence of a cell surface antigen; (ii) the amount of a cell surface
antigen; or (iii) cell size; (b) assaying the cell of (a) for at least one of: (i) nuclear size; or (ii)
nuclear shape; and (c) assaying the cell of (a) and (b) for quantitative cell light scatter,
wherein the combination of information from steps (a), (b), and (c) is used to identify the cell
in the sample containing a plurality of cells.
                                                 -11
14606381_1

    100501       In at least one embodiment described herein, a system for imaging a sample,
the system comprising: a sample vessel containing said sample, a stage having a sample
vessel receiver with an optically transparent surface; a light source for illuminating formed
components in the sample through the stage, wherein the sample vessel has an interface
surface configured to engage the optically transparent surface of the sample vessel receiver
whereby the interface surface conforms to the optically transparent surface without
significant distortion of light passing through the interface surface.
    100511       It should be understood that embodiments herein may be configured to include
one or more of the following features. For example, the interface surface of the sample
vessel may be formed from a polymer material. Optionally, this may be a transparent
material. Optionally, the interface surface of the sample vessel is formed of a material softer
than a material used to form the optically transparent surface of the sample vessel receiver.
Optionally, a compression unit is provided for applying pressure to conform the interface
surface to a shape configured to conform with the optically transparent surface of the sample
vessel receiver. Optionally, a handling unit may be configured to be coupled to the sample
vessel to facilitate transport of sample vessel on and off the stage, and increase mechanical
rigidity of the sample vessel. Optionally, the handling unit may be an optically opaque unit
configured to be coupled to the sample vessel. Optionally, the handling unit may be formed
with physical features, protrusions, or the like to facilitate engagement with a robotic
manipulator, pipette unit, or other mechanical mover. Optionally, the handling unit may be
formed with magnetic, electromagnetic, or other features to facilitate engagement or
disengagement. Optionally, all imaging of the sample may be done without passing light in a
substantially straight line through one surface and out an opposing surface to a detector.
Optionally, the light source is not located on one side of the sample vessel to deliver light to a
detector on an opposite side of the sample vessel.
    100521       In one non-limiting example, the cuvette may have a plurality of channels
wherein at least some of the channels have different cross-sectional widths or other cross
sectional dimensions. Optionally, some cuvettes may also have many different shapes of
channels. Optionally, some embodiments may have at least one channel when viewed from
top-down has a spiral configuration. Optionally, some embodiment may have a plurality of
channels formed as concentric circles, concentric ovals, and/or concentric polygons. Some
embodiments may have cuvette channels wherein at least two are of different lengths.
    100531       In embodiments, hydrophilic modes of filling or hydrophobic modes of filling
may be used with the cuvette. Most microfluidics rely on capillary action (hydrophilic) for
                                               -12
14606381_1

filling channels in a cuvette. In contrast, at least some embodiments herein may use
hydrophobic filling modes. In one non-limiting example of hydrophobic mode of filling, a
liquid dispensing tip forms a seal with at least one port of the cuvette, and the tip can be used
to push the liquid into the cuvette channel under positive pressure, wherein there is typically a
vent at the end or other portion of the channel in the cuvette to facilitate this type of liquid
filling. By using a hydrophobic surface in all or portions of the channel, one can control how
far the liquid goes into the channel by controlling the pressure. In one non-limiting example
of a cuvette for use in hydrophobic mode of filling, the top layer of the cuvette may be acrylic
and the bottom portion of the cuvette is a different material. In one embodiment, the bottom
portion of the cuvette may define three sides of the channel (bottom and two sides) while a
cover layer define the top surface of the channel. Most optically clear materials are
hydrophobic, so to work with these materials, use of the pressure based filling technique may
facilitate filling of these types of channels.
     100541       It should be understood that embodiments in this disclosure may be adapted to
have one or more of the features described in this disclosure.
     100551       This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified
form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not
intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it
intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     100561       Figure 1A shows a plot of side scatter intensity (x-axis) vs. fluorescence
intensity of a mixture cells including natural killer cells and neutrophils labeled with a
fluorescent binder that recognizes CD 16.
     100571       Figure 1B shows a bar graph showing the ratio of nuclear area to total cell
area of natural killer cells ("NK") and neutrophils ("Neu").
     100581       Figure 1C shows natural killer cells stained with anti-CD16 antibody (left
column) and a nuclear stain (right column).
     100591       Figure 1D shows neutrophils stained with anti-CD16 antibody (left column)
and a nuclear stain (right column).
     100601       Figure 2A shows platelets labeled with fluorescently conjugated CD41 and
CD61 antibodies (bright dots).
     100611       Figure 2B shows intensity distribution of images of fluorescently labeled
platelets at  lOX   (left) and 20X (right) magnification.
                                                -13
14606381_1

    10062]      Figure 2C shows intensity distribution of an image of a fluorescently labeled
platelet showing measured intensity (light grey) and curve fit to the measured intensity (dark
grey).
    10063]      Figure 3 shows: a plot of curve of showing the relationship between the
nominal diameter of standard particles in pm (x-axis) and fluorescence intensity-based size
measure in arbitrary units (a.u.; y-axis). The figure also shows representative beads at
different points along the curve.
    10064]      Figure 4A shows sphered red blood cells imaged by dark field microscopy in
cuvettes that allow only epi-illumination.
    10065]       Figure 4B shows sphered red blood cells imaged by dark field microscopy in
cuvettes that allow a mixture of epi- and trans-illumination.
    10066]      Figure 5A shows putative band neutrophils stained with anti-CD16 antibody
and a nuclear stain.
    10067]      Figure 5B shows putative segmented neutrophils stained with anti-CD16
antibody and a nuclear stain.
    10068]      Figure 6A shows an embodiment of an optical system suitable as part of
device or system as disclosed herein, and suitable for use in methods disclosed herein,
including exemplary optics (e.g., a light-source shown as a ringlight, and an objective),
cuvette, and a support structure configured to hold and position a cuvette for imaging. In this
embodiment, the cuvette has a rectangular horizontal cross-sectional shape.
    10069]      Figure 6B shows an embodiment of an optical system suitable as part of
device or system as disclosed herein, and suitable for use in methods disclosed herein,
including exemplary optics (e.g., a light-source shown as a ringlight, and an objective),
cuvette, and a support structure configured to hold and position a cuvette for imaging. In this
embodiment, the cuvette has a circular horizontal cross-sectional shape.
    10070]      Figure 7A shows embodiments of elements of an optical system suitable for
use in a device or system as disclosed herein, and suitable for use in methods disclosed
herein.
    10071]      Figure 7B shows embodiments of elements of an optical system suitable for
use in a device or system as disclosed herein, and suitable for use in methods disclosed
herein, comprising a further lens and an aperture suitable for limiting the range of angles of
scattered light which reach a detector.
                                              -14
14606381_1

     10072]     Figure 8A provides a view of an embodiment of an optical system including a
support structure for holding a cuvette for imaging of a sample, in which light from a
ringlight illumination system falls directly on the sample (epi-illumination), and light is also
reflected from feature of the cuvette so as to provide trans-illumination as well. In this
embodiment, the cuvette has a step-shaped vertical cross-sectional shape.
     10073]     Figure 8B provides a view of an embodiment of an optical system including a
support structure for holding a cuvette for imaging of a sample, in which light from a
ringlight illumination system falls directly on the sample (epi-illumination), and light is also
reflected from feature of the cuvette so as to provide trans-illumination as well. As shown,
incident light may be completely reflected at a surface (total internal reflection, TIR) or only
a portion of incident light may be reflected at a surface (partial internal reflection, PIR). In
this embodiment, the cuvette has a saw tooth vertical cross-sectional shape.
     10074]     Figure 8C shows an embodiment of an optical system suitable as part of
device or system as disclosed herein, and suitable for use in methods disclosed herein,
including exemplary optics (e.g., a light-source shown as a ringlight, and an objective),
cuvette, and a support structure configured to hold and position a cuvette for imaging. In this
embodiment, the cuvette includes features which affect the path of light illuminating the
cuvette and the sample within the cuvette.
     10075]     Figure 8D shows an embodiment of an optical system suitable as part of
device or system as disclosed herein, and suitable for use in methods disclosed herein,
including exemplary optics (e.g., a light-source directing light from a transverse direction),
cuvette, and a support structure configured to hold and position a cuvette for imaging. In this
embodiment, the cuvette includes features which affect the path of light illuminating the
cuvette and the sample within the cuvette.
     10076]     Figure 8E provides a schematic representation of transport of a cuvette from a
sample preparation location to a sample observation location near an optical detector (labeled
'")").
     10077]     Figure 8F provides a further, detailed schematic representation of system
including a transport mechanism for transporting a cuvette from a sample preparation
location to a sample observation location near an optical detector.
     10078]     Figure 9A is a dark-field image showing images of representative blood cells
taken from whole blood. The other figures in Figure 9 are also representative images of blood
cells taken from whole blood, using different imaging techniques and dyes.
                                               -15
14606381_1

     10079]     Figure 9B is an image showing fluorescence from labeled anti-CD14
antibodies attached to monocytes.
     100801     Figure 9C is an image showing fluorescence from labeled anti-CD123
antibodies attached to basophils.
     100811     Figure 9D is an image showing fluorescence from labeled anti-CD16
antibodies attached to neutrophils.
     100821     Figure 9E is an image showing fluorescence from labeled anti-CD45
antibodies attached to leukocytes.
     100831     Figure 9F is an image showing leukocyte and platelet cells stained with
nuclear stain DRAQ5* (red blood cells, lacking nuclei, are not stained by DRAQ5*).
     100841     Figure 10 is composite image which shows representative images of blood
cells taken from whole blood, showing a monocyte, a lymphocyte, an eosinophil, and a
neutrophil.
     100851     Figure 11A shows identification of monocytes by plotting CD14 label
intensity (FL-17) versus scatter intensity (FL-9). This image, and the other images in Figures
11 B-1 ID show plots of fluorescence detected on cells labeled with different markers (labeled
antibodies directed at different cell-surface or other markers); such multiple labeling is useful
for identifying cells.
     10086]     Figure IB shows identification of basophils by plotting CD 123 intensity
(FL-19) versus CD16 intensity (FL-15).
     10087]     Figure IC shows identification of lymphocytes by plotting CD16 intensity
(FL-15) versus CD45 intensity (FL- 11).
     100881     Figure 11D shows identification of neutrophils and eosinophils by plotting
CD16 intensity (FL-15) versus scatter intensity (FL-9).
     10089]     Figure 12A plots white blood cell counts obtained by the present methods
versus white blood cell counts obtained by the commercial blood analyzer. Figures 12A-12F
show comparisons of cell counts (measured from aliquots of the same blood sample) obtained
by the present methods, and those obtained by other methods (using a commercial blood
analyzer).
     [0090]     Figure 12B plots red blood cell counts obtained by the present methods versus
red blood cell counts obtained by the commercial blood analyzer.
     10091]     Figure 12C plots platelet counts obtained by the present methods versus
platelet counts obtained by the commercial blood analyzer.
                                               -16
14606381_1

     10092]      Figure 12D plots neutrophil counts obtained by the present methods versus
neutrophil counts obtained by the commercial blood analyzer.
     10093]      Figure 12E plots monocyte counts obtained by the present methods versus
monocyte counts obtained by the commercial blood analyzer.
     [0094]      Figure 12F plots lymphocyte counts obtained by the present methods versus
lymphocyte counts obtained by the commercial blood analyzer.
     [0095]      Figure 13A shows dark field images of white blood cells (WBCs) obtained
using microscopy. Figures 13A-13E show WBC images obtained using microscopy, for use
in performing sequential segmentation analysis to determine contours for each cell and to
thus differentiate the cell images from the background images.
     10096]      Figure 13B is a fluorescence image showing cell labelling by anti-CD45
antibodies.
     10097]      Figure 13C is a fluorescence image cells labelling by the nuclear stain
DRAQ5*.
     10098]      Figure 13D is a fluorescence image showing cell labelling by anti-CD16
antibodies.
     [0099]      Figure 13E is a fluorescence image showing cell labelling by anti-CD123
antibodies.
     [00100]     Figure 14A is a dark field image, obtained using microscopy, of white blood
cells (WBCs). Figures 14A-14E show WBC images obtained using microscopy, as in Fig. 13,
for performing sequential segmentation analysis to determine external (e.g., cell membrane)
and internal (e.g., nucleus) contours for each cell and to thus identify the cell nucleus as well
as to differentiate the cell regions of interest (cell ROIs) from the background regions. The
lines within the cell images identify the boundaries of the WBC nucleus for each cell as
determined by sequential segmentation analysis.
     [00101]     Figure 14B is a fluorescence image showing cell labelling by anti-CD45
antibodies.
     1001021     Figure 14C is a fluorescence image cells labelling by the nuclear stain
DRAQ5*.
     1001031     Figure 14D is a fluorescence image showing cell labelling by anti-CD16
antibodies.
     1001041     Figure 14E is a fluorescence image showing cell labelling by anti-CD123
antibodies.
                                                 -17
14606381_1

     1001051    Figure 15A is a composite image of the cells shown in Figs. 13 and 14, with
cell contours obtained by watershed segmentation performed once. Figures 15A and 15B
show composite images of white blood cells (WBCs) shown in Figs. 13 and 14.
     1001061    Figure 15B is a the result of sequential segmentation as described herein
applied to the composite image of the cells shown in Figs. 13 and 14, showing cell contours
obtained by that analysis.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     1001071    Description and disclosure which may aid in understanding the full extent and
advantages of the devices, systems, and methods disclosed herein may be found, for example,
in U.S. Patent 7,888,125; U.S. Patent 8,088,593; U.S. Patent 8,158,430; U.S. Patent
8,380,541; PCT Application No. PCT/US2013/052141, filed July 25, 2013; PCT Application
No. PCT/US2012/057155, filed September 25, 2012; PCT Application No.
PCT/US2011/053188, filed September 25, 2011; PCT Application No. PCT/US2011/053189,
filed September 25, 2011; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 14/098,177, filed December 5,
2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial Number 13/951,063, filed July 25, 2013; U.S. Patent
Application Serial Number 13/951,449, filed July 25, 2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial
No. 13/769,798, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,779,
filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Patent Application 13/769,818, filed February 18, 2013; U.S.
Patent Application 13/769,820, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
13/355,458, filed January 20, 2012; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/244,947 filed Sept.
26, 2011; U.S. Application Serial No. 13/244,946, filed September 26, 2011; U.S. Patent
Application 13/244,949, filed September 26, 2011; U.S. Patent Application 13/244,950, filed
September 26, 2011; U.S. Patent Application 13/244,951, filed September 26, 2011; U.S.
Patent Application 13/244,952, filed September 26, 2011; U.S. Patent Application
13/244,953, filed September 26, 2011; U.S. Patent Application 13/244,954, filed September
26, 2011; U.S. Patent Application 13/244,956, filed September 26, 2011; U.S. Application
Serial No. 61/673,245, filed September 26, 2011; U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
61/675,811, filed July 25, 2012; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/676,178, filed July 26,
2012; U.S. Patent Application 61/697,797, filed September 6, 2012; U.S. Patent Application
61/766,113, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Patent Application 61/766,116, filed February 18,
2013; U.S. Patent Application 61/766,076, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Patent Application
61/786,351, filed March 15, 2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/802,194, filed
March 15, 2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/837,151, filed June 19, 2013; U.S.
                                              -18
14606381_1

Patent Application 61/933,270, filed January 29, 2014; U.S. Patent Application 61/930,419,
filed January 22, 2014; U.S. Patent Application 14/161,639, filed January 22, 2014; and U.S.
Patent Application 14/167,264, filed January 29, 2014, the disclosures of which patents and
patent applications are all hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
     1001081    It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the
following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of
the invention, as claimed. It may be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended
claims, the singular forms "a", "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context
clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a material" may include mixtures
of materials, reference to "a compound" may include multiple compounds, and the like.
References cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety, except to the
extent that they conflict with teachings explicitly set forth in this specification.
     100109]    As used herein, unless explicitly stated otherwise, or unless otherwise made
clear by the context, the meaning of the term "or" includes both the disjunctive ("or") and the
conjunctive ("and").
     [00110]    In this specification and in the claims which follow, reference will be made to
a number of terms which shall be defined to have the following meanings:
     [00111]    "Optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently described
circumstance may or may not occur, so that the description includes instances where the
circumstance occurs and instances where it does not. For example, if a device optionally
contains a feature for a sample collection unit, this means that the sample collection unit may
or may not be present, and, thus, the description includes both structures wherein a device
possesses the sample collection unit and structures wherein sample collection unit is not
present.
     100112]    As used herein, the terms "substantial" means more than a minimal or
insignificant amount; and "substantially" means more than a minimally or insignificantly.
Thus, for example, the phrase "substantially different", as used herein, denotes a sufficiently
high degree of difference between two numeric values such that one of skill in the art would
consider the difference between the two values to be of statistical significance within the
context of the characteristic measured by said values. Thus, the difference between two
values that are substantially different from each other is typically greater than about 10%, and
may be greater than about 20%, greater than about 30%, greater than about 40%, or greater
than about 50% as a function of the reference value or comparator value.
                                                -19
14606381_1

     1001131    As used herein, "internal reflection" refers to reflection of light, within a
material (the first material), at a boundary between the first material and another material (the
second material). For example, a first material may be a solid such as a glass or plastic, and
the second material may be, e.g., air. The light that is internally reflected is traveling within
the first material before it is reflected. Internal reflection may be partial (partial internal
reflection: PIR) or total (total internal reflection: TIR). Thus, internal reflection where all of
the light incident at a surface is reflected back within the first material is TIR, while internal
reflection where not all light incident at a surface is reflected within a material is PIR. (With
PIR, some light may pass through the boundary, and some light is reflected at the surface
back into the material.) The angle of the incidence is an important factor in determining the
extent of internal reflection; it is the angle of an incident light ray measured versus a line
perpendicular to the boundary surface. Whether or not TIR occurs depends upon the angle of
incidence of the light with respect to the surface at the boundary between the first and the
second material; the index of refraction of the first material; the index of refraction of the
second material; and other factors (e.g., the wavelength of light may affect TIR since the
index of refraction typically varies with wavelength). The angle at which light is totally
internally reflected is termed the critical angle; incident light having an angle of incidence
greater than the critical angle will be totally internally reflected (will remain within the
material: TIR). However, with PIR, a portion of incident light having an angle of incidence
less than the critical angle will also be internally reflected (the remaining light being refracted
and passing out of the first material into the second material).
     1001141    As used herein, a "sample" may be but is not limited to a blood sample, or a
urine sample, or other biological sample. A sample may be, for example, a blood sample
(e.g., a sample obtained from a finger-stick, or from venipuncture, or an arterial blood
sample, and may be whole blood, serum, plasma, or other blood sample), a urine sample, a
biopsy sample, a tissue slice, stool sample, or other biological sample; a water sample, a soil
sample, a food sample, an air sample; or other sample (e.g., nasal swab or nasopharyngeal
wash, saliva, urine, tears, gastric fluid, spinal fluid, mucus, sweat, earwax, oil, glandular
secretion, cerebral spinal fluid, tissue, semen, cervical fluid, vaginal fluid, synovial fluid,
throat swab, breath, hair, finger nails, skin, biopsy, placental fluid, amniotic fluid, cord blood,
lymphatic fluids, cavity fluids, sputum, mucus, pus, a microbiota sample, meconium, breast
milk or other excretions).
     1001151    Thus, as used herein, a "sample" includes a portion of a blood, urine, or other
biological sample, may be of any suitable size or volume, and is preferably of small size or
                                                  -20
14606381_1

volume. In some embodiments of the systems, assays and methods disclosed herein,
measurements may be made using a small volume blood sample, or no more than a small
volume portion of a blood sample, where a small volume comprises no more than about 5
mL; or comprises no more than about 3 mL; or comprises no more than about 2 mL; or
comprises no more than about 1 mL; or comprises no more than about 500 pL; or comprises
no more than about 250 pL; or comprises no more than about 100 pL; or comprises no more
than about 75 pL; or comprises no more than about 50 pL; or comprises no more than about
35 pL; or comprises no more than about 25 pL; or comprises no more than about 20 pL; or
comprises no more than about 15 pL; or comprises no more than about 10 pL; or comprises
no more than about 8 pL; or comprises no more than about 6 pL; or comprises no more than
about 5 pL; or comprises no more than about 4 pL; or comprises no more than about 3 pL; or
comprises no more than about 2 pL; or comprises no more than about 1 pL; or comprises no
more than about 0.8 pL; or comprises no more than about 0.5 pL; or comprises no more than
about 0.3 pL; or comprises no more than about 0.2 pL; or comprises no more than about 0.1
pL; or comprises no more than about 0.05 pL; or comprises no more than about 0.01 pL.
     100116]    In embodiments, the volume of sample collected via finger-stick may be, e.g.,
about 250 pL or less, or about 200 pL or less, or about 150 pL or less, or about 100 pL or
less, or about 50 pL or less, or about 25 pL or less, or about 15 pL or less, or about 10 pL or
less, or about 10 pL or less, or about 5 pL or less, or about 3 pL or less, or about 1 pL or less.
     100117]    As used herein, the term "point of service location" may include locations
where a subject may receive a service (e.g. testing, monitoring, treatment, diagnosis,
guidance, sample collection, ID verification, medical services, non-medical services, etc.),
and may include, without limitation, a subject's home, a subject's business, the location of a
healthcare provider (e.g., doctor), hospitals, emergency rooms, operating rooms, clinics,
health care professionals' offices, laboratories, retailers [e.g. pharmacies (e.g., retail
pharmacy, clinical pharmacy, hospital pharmacy), drugstores, supermarkets, grocers, etc.],
transportation vehicles (e.g. car, boat, truck, bus, airplane, motorcycle, ambulance, mobile
unit, fire engine/truck, emergency vehicle, law enforcement vehicle, police car, or other
vehicle configured to transport a subject from one point to another, etc.), traveling medical
care units, mobile units, schools, day-care centers, security screening locations, combat
locations, health assisted living residences, government offices, office buildings, tents, bodily
fluid sample acquisition sites (e.g. blood collection centers), sites at or near an entrance to a
location that a subject may wish to access, sites on or near a device that a subject may wish to
access (e.g., the location of a computer if the subject wishes to access the computer), a
                                                -21
14606381_1

location where a sample processing device receives a sample, or any other point of service
location described elsewhere herein.
     1001181     The term "cells," as used in the context of biological samples, encompasses
samples that are generally of similar sizes to individual cells, including but not limited to
vesicles (such as liposomes), cells, virions, and substances bound to small particles such as
beads, nanoparticles, or microspheres.
     100119]     As used herein, the term "binds" refers to a reaction, or interaction, between
two materials which lead to the close combination of the two; e.g., a reaction between a
ligand and a receptor, in which the ligand becomes tightly linked to the receptor, provides an
example of binding. The combination of an antibody with its target antigen, and of a carrier
protein with its cargo, such as intrinsic factor with vitamin B12, are further examples of
reactions in which one material binds to another.
     1001201     The term "binder" as used herein refers generally to any compound or
macromolecule, such as an antibody, which tightly or specifically binds to a target. Binders
include, but are not limited to, antibodies (whether monoclonal or polyclonal, antibody
fragments, immunoadhesins, and other such antibody variants and mimics), natural binding
proteins (e.g., intrinsic factor protein which is specific for vitamin B 12), ligands which bind
their target receptors, substrates which bind to particular enzymes, binding pairs such as
avidin and biotin, small molecules which tightly and specifically bind to target molecules,
and the like. Bacteria, viruses, synthetic scaffolds, and other objects and materials that bind or
adhere to specific targets may be used as binders. A binder may be, or may include, or may
be linked to, a marker such as a dye, or fluorophore, or other detectable moiety.
     100121J     As used herein, a "marker" is a detectable material whose presence makes a
target visible or otherwise detectable, or whose presence in a position or location is indicative
of the presence of a target in that position or location. A marker may be used to label a cell,
structure, particle, or other target, and may be useful to detect, determine the presence of,
locate, identify, quantify, or otherwise measure a target in, or property of, a sample. Markers
may include, without limitation, stains, dyes, ligands, antibodies, particles, and other
materials that may bind or localize to specific targets or locations; bacteria, viruses or cells
that may grow in or localize to specific targets or locations may also be used as markers.
Detectable attributes or properties of cells or other targets may be used as markers.
     1001221     As used herein, the terms "stain" and "dye" may be interchangeable, and refer
to elements, compounds, and macromolecules which render objects or components of a
sample more detectable than in the absence of treatment with the stain or dye. For example,
                                                -22
14606381_1

treatment of a blood sample with a DNA dye such as propidium iodide renders the nuclei of
nucleated cells more visible, and makes detection and quantification of such cells easier than
otherwise, even in the presence of non-nucleated cells (e.g., red blood cells).
         As used herein, the term "surfactant" refers to a compound that is effective to reduce
the surface tension of a liquid, such as water. A surfactant is typically an amphiphilic
compound, possessing both hydrophilic and hydrophobic properties, and may be effective to
aid in the solubilization of other compounds. A surfactant may be, e.g., a hydrophilic
surfactant, a lipophilic surfactant, or other compound, or mixtures thereof. Some surfactants
comprise salts of long-chain aliphatic bases or acids, or hydrophilic moieties such as sugars.
Surfactants include anionic, cationic, zwitterionic, and non-ionic compounds (where the term
"non-ionic" refers to a molecule that does not ionize in solution, i.e., is "ionically" inert).
Exemplary commercially available amphiphilic compounds include Tergitolm nonionic
surfactants; Dowfax'" anionic surfactants; polyethylene glycols and derivatives thereof,
including TritonI" surfactants; polysorbates (polyethylenesorbitans) such as the TWEEN*
compounds, and poloxamers (e.g., ethylene oxide/propylene oxide block copolymers) such as
Pluronics* compounds; stearates and derivatives thereof; laurates and derivatives thereof;
oleates and derivatives thereof; phospholipids and derivatives thereof; lysophospholipids and
derivatives thereof; sterols and derivatives thereof; and combinations thereof.
    1001231      As used herein, a "detector" may be any device, instrument, or system which
provides information derived from a signal, image, or other information related to a target,
such as a sample. Detectable signals and information may include, for example, optical,
electrical, mechanical, chemical, physical, or other signals. A detector may be, for example,
an optical detector, or an electrical detector, or a chemical detector, or an electrochemical
detector, or an acoustic detector, or a temperature detector, or a mechanical detector, or other
detector.
    1001241      As used herein, an "optical detector" detects electromagnetic radiation (e.g.,
light). An optical detector may detect an image or be used with an image, or may detect light
intensity irrespective of an image, or both. An optical detector may detect, or measure, light
intensity. Some optical detectors may be sensitive to, or restricted to, detecting or measuring
a particular wavelength or range of wavelengths. For example, optical detectors may include,
for example, photodiode detectors, photomultipliers, charge-coupled devices, laser diodes,
spectrophotometers, cameras, microscopes, or other devices which measure light intensity (of
a single wavelength, of multiple wavelengths, or of a range, or ranges, of wavelengths of
light), form an image, or both.
                                                -23
14606381_1

     1001251     The term "ploidy" as used herein refers to the amount of DNA in a cell, and to
assays and measurements of the DNA content of cells in a sample. Ploidy measurements
provide a measure of whether or not a cell, or a population of cells, has a normal or an
abnormal amount of DNA, or, since DNA is duplicated during cell division and proliferation,
if abnormal numbers of cells in a population are proliferating. Ploidy measurements may be
made by imaging techniques following staining of nucleated cells in a sample with a DNA
specific dye.
Quantitative Microscopy
     100126]     In some embodiments, methods, systems, and devices are provided herein for
quantitative microscopy. Quantitative microscopy may involve one or more of quantitative
fluorescence microscopy, quantitative dark field microscopy, quantitative bright field
microscopy, and quantitative phase contrast microscopy methods to measure one or more
cellular attributes. Any of these methods may provide morphometric information regarding
cells. Such information may be measured quantitatively. In some embodiments, for
quantitative microscopy, a sample is analyzed by two or more of quantitative fluorescence
microscopy, quantitative dark field microscopy, quantitative bright field microscopy, and
quantitative phase contrast microscopy. Quantitative microscopy may include use of image
analysis techniques or statistical learning and classification methods to process images
obtained by microscopy.
     100127]     Multiple different cellular attributes may be measured during quantitative
microscopy. Cellular attributes that may be measured include, without limitation:
     1001281     Physicalattributes: e.g. cell size, volume, conductivity, low and high angle
scatter, and density. Other physical attributes that may be measured or quantified include,
without limitation, circularity of a cell or particle; aspect ratio of a cell or particle; perimeter
of a cell or particle; convexity of a cell or particle; granularity of a cell or particle; intensity of
an image of a cell or particle; height (e.g., size through several focal planes) of a cell or
particle; flatness of a cell or particle; and other physical attributes.
     100129]     Morphologicalattributes: e.g. cell shape, area, size, and lobularity; nucleus
shape area, size, and lobularity; mitochondria shape, area, size, and lobularity; and ratio of
nuclear volume to cell volume.
     1001301     Intracellularattributes: e.g. nucleus centroid / cell centroid distance (i.e.
distance between the center of the nucleus and the center of the cell), nucleus lobe centroid
distance (i.e. distance between the center of different lobes of the nucleus), distribution of
proteins within the cells (e.g. actin, tubulin, etc.), distribution of organelles within the cells
                                                 -24
14606381_1

(e.g. lysosomes, mitochondria, etc.), colocalization of proteins with other proteins and
organelles, and other attrtibutes.
     1001311     Biochemical attributes:e.g. expression level of cellular proteins, cell surface
proteins, cytoplasmic proteins, nuclear proteins, cellular nucleic acids, cell surface nucleic
acids, cytoplasmic nucleic acids, nuclear nucleic acids, cellular carbohydrates, cell surface
carbohydrates, cytoplasmic carbohydrates, and nuclear carbohydrates.
     1001321     In some embodiments, methods, systems, and devices are provided herein for
the quantitative measurement of two, three, four, five or more attributes of cells in a sample,
wherein the attributes are selected from physical attributes, morphological attributes,
intracellular attributes, and biochemical attributes. In some embodiments, methods, systems,
and devices are provided herein for the quantitative measurement of two, three, four, five or
more attributes of cells in a sample, wherein the attributes are selected from: cell size, cell
volume, cell conductivity, cell low angle light scatter, cell high angle light scatter, cell
density, cell shape, cell area, cell lobularity, nucleus shape, nucleus area, nucleus size,
nucleus lobularity, mitochondria shape, mitochondria area, mitochondria size, mitochondria
lobularity, ratio of nuclear volume to cell volume, nucleus centroid / cell centroid distance,
nucleus lobe centroid distance, distribution of proteins with the cells (e.g. actin, tubulin, etc.),
distribution of organelles within the cells (e.g. lysosomes, mitochondria, etc.), expression
level of a cellular protein, expression level of a cell surface protein, expression level of a
cytoplasmic protein, expression level of a nuclear protein, expression level of a cellular
nucleic acid, expression level of a cell surface nucleic acid, expression level of a cytoplasmic
nucleic acid, expression level of a nuclear nucleic acid, expression level of a cellular
carbohydrate, expression level of a cell surface carbohydrate, expression level of a
cytoplasmic carbohydrate, and expression level of a nuclear carbohydrate.
     1001331     In some embodiments, methods are provided for the quantitative measurement
of two, three, four, five, or more attributes of cells in a biological sample by microscopy,
wherein the method may include one or more of the following steps or elements. The
attributes of the cells quantitatively measured may be selected from the attributes listed in the
immediately above paragraph. The biological sample may be pre-treated prior to
microscopy. Pre-treatment may include any procedure to aid in the analysis of the sample by
microscopy, including: treatment of the sample to enrich for cells of interest for microscopy,
treatment of the sample to reduce components in the sample which may interfere with
microscopy, addition of material to the sample to facilitate analysis of the sample by
microscopy (e.g. diluents, blocking molecules to reduce non-specific binding of dyes to cells,
                                                 -25
14606381_1

etc.). Optionally, prior to microscopy, a sample may be contacted with one or more binders
that specifically bind to a cellular component. Binders may be directly linked to a dye or
other particle for the visualization of the binder. A sample may also be contacted with a
secondary binder, which binds to the binder which binds to the cellular component. A
secondary binder may be directly linked to a dye or other particle for the visualization of the
binder. Prior to microscopy, a sample may be assayed in a spectrophotometer. For
microscopy, a biological sample containing or suspected of containing an object for
microscopic analysis may be introduced into a sample holder, such as a slide or a cuvette.
The sample holder containing a sample may be introduced into a device configured to
perform quantitative microscopy on the sample. The microscope may be coupled with an
image sensor to capture images generated through the microscope objective. In the device,
multiple images of the sample may be acquired by microscopy. Any one or more of
quantitative fluorescence microscopy, quantitative dark field microscopy, quantitative bright
field microscopy, and quantitative phase contrast microscopy may be used to obtain images
of the sample. Optionally, images of the entire sample in the sample holder may be acquired
by microscopy. Multiple fields of view of the microscope may be required to capture images
of the entire sample in the sample holder. The sample holder may move relative to the
microscope or the microscope may move relative to the sample holder in order to generate
different field of views in order to examine different portions of the sample in the sample
holder. Multiple images of the same field of view of the sample in the sample holder may be
acquired. Optionally, multiple filters may be used with the same type of microscopy and the
same field of view of the sample, in order to acquire different images of the same sample
which contain different information relating to the sample. Filters that may be used include,
without limitation band-pass and long pass filters. Filters may permit the passage of certain
wavelengths of light, and block the passage of others. Optionally, multiple types of
microscopy (e.g. fluorescence, dark field, bright field, etc.) may be used to acquire images of
the same field of view of the sample, in order to acquire different images of the same sample
which contain different information relating to the sample. Optionally, video may be used to
collect microscopy images. Optionally, microscopy images may be collected in 3-D. For
microscopy performed as described herein, the device or system may be configured to link
information relating to a cell in one image of the sample to the same cell in a different image
of the sample. Based on different images of the same sample or same cells, multiple
attributes of cells in the sample may be determined. In some aspects, the combination of
multiple attributes / multiple pieces of information about cells in a sample may be used to
                                               -26
14606381_1

reach a clinical decision or to draw a conclusion about the cells that would not be possible
based on information from only a single attribute of the cells.
     1001341     In some embodiments, devices and systems are provided for the quantitative
measurement of two, three, four, five, or more attributes of cells in a biological sample by
microscopy. In some embodiments, the device or system contains both a microscope or
cytometer and a spectrophotometer. The device or system may further contain a fluid
handling apparatus, which is configured to move sample between a spectrophotometer and a
microscope or cytometer. In some embodiments, devices and systems for performing the
methods disclosed herein are configured as described in U.S. Patent App. No. 13/244,947 and
U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,779, which are each hereby incorporated by
reference in their entireties. Although the foregoing has been described in the context of a
cell, it should also be understood that some or all of the foregoing may also be applied to
crystals, particles, filaments, or other cell-sized objects that may be found in a sample.
Dynamic Dilution
     1001351     In some embodiments, methods, systems, and devices are provided herein for
dynamic dilution of cell-containing samples.
     100136]     By way of non-limiting example, a method for dynamic dilution of a sample
may include one or more of the following steps or elements such that a desired number or
concentration of cells or objects in the sample is determined and this information is used as a
factor in adjusting downstream sample processing. In this non-limiting example, one or more
stains or dyes may be added to a biological sample containing cells. The mixture of stain and
sample may be incubated. The cells in the mixture of stain and sample may be washed to
remove excess (unbound) stain. The stained, washed cells may be prepared in a desired
volume for further analysis. The stained, washed cells may be analyzed to determine the
approximate number or concentration of cells in the sample or a portion thereof. Based on
the number or concentration of stained cells in the sample or portion thereof, a volume of
sample may be obtained for further analysis, such that a desired number or concentration of
cells for further analysis is obtained. In some embodiments, samples may be diluted as
described in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/355,458, which is hereby incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
     100137]     In one embodiment as described herein, it is desirable to provide another
detection technique such as but not limited to fluorescence-based method for enumerating
cells, to estimate cell concentration in place of using a cell counter. This estimate is described
because, for accurate and reproducible staining of patient samples, it is often desirable that
                                                 -27
14606381_1

stains (DNA dyes/antibodies/binders/etc.) are optimally titered for a specific
number/concentration of cells. For example, a known concentration of stain will be applied
to a specific number of cells (e.g. 0.2 micrograms of stain per one thousand white blood cells
(WBCs)). After an incubation period, the sample will be washed to remove excess (unbound)
dye, prepared at the appropriate cell density, and imaged.
     1001381     In this non-limiting example, to make an estimate of cell concentration for a
targeted cell type, a sample is non-destructively measured with a different modality from that
used for cytometry, such as but not limited to a spectrophotometer, in order to inform sample
processing for the cytometric assay. The method may comprise selecting another marker
unique to the cell population of interest. In one non-limiting example, for B-cells, one may
choose CD20. The process comprises labeling the sample with anti-CD20 binders conjugated
to a different colored fluorophore than CD5. One then measures the fluorescent signal of this
sample non-destructively and rapidly using a device such as but not limited to a fluorescence
spectrophotometer. Using calibration, it is possible to predict the concentration of B-cells
with limited accuracy to provide the estimate. In one non-limiting example, the calibration
may correlate signal strength with the number of cells for that type of signal. The creation of
these calibration curves can be used to estimate the number of cells or object. Other
techniques for estimating number of cells based on an overall signal strength such as but not
limited to optical, electrical, acoustical, or the like are not excluded. Based on the
approximate concentration of B-cells, the system can estimate the appropriate amount and
concentration of anti-CD5 binder so that proportional relationship between CD5 expression
and CD5 fluorescence is maintained. In this manner, the stain and staining procedure can be
optimized/normalized for a particular cell number.
     100139]     To maximize the use of patient samples (which may be low volume samples,
such as, e.g., blood obtained from a finger-stick, having a volume equal to or less than about
120 pL), it is desirable to develop methods whereby the number of WBCs contained within a
given volume of blood can be enumerated (e.g., the concentration WBCs/pL determined).
This allows the number of WBCs to be determined, or at least estimated, prior to adding
stains. Once determined, a desired number of cells can be aliquotted for incubation with a
known concentration of stain(s), yielding optimal resolution of cell subpopulations.
     1001401     In an application where measurement of ploidy of cells is desired, cells in a
sample may be stained with a DNA dye, and then the intensity of staining may be quantified
(where "the intensity of staining" means the intensity of an optical signal due to the dye). The
intensity of the dye signal due to such staining depends upon the ratio of DNA/dye (that is, of
                                                 -28
14606381_1

the amount of DNA stained by the dye to the amount of dye added). If a preset amount of dye
is added to every sample, regardless of the characteristics of the sample, then samples with
very high cell concentration will each be less bright as compared to samples with low cell
concentration. This situation would confound the quantification of the amount of DNA in
each cell. As disclosed herein, obtaining an estimate of the number of nucleated cells in a
sample prior to adding the dye allows one to adjust the amount of dye so that quantification
of the DNA, and of the amount of DNA per cell in the sample, may be performed. Thus, for
example, a sample, or an aliquot of a sample, may be treated with a stain or dye directed at a
cell-surface marker indicative of the cell or cells to be quantified, and that surface marker
used to non-destructively estimate the concentration of cells in the sample. This estimated
concentration may then be used to calculate the amount of dye that needs to be added to the
sample so as to always maintain a consistent DNA:Dye ratio (mole to mole) for subsequent
measurements.
     [00141]    In a first example of a fluorescence-based method for enumerating cells, a
method may comprise determining the ploidy of cells (e.g., enumerating cells via fluorophore
-conjugated antibody staining). In this non-limiting example, it is desired to enumerate the
WBCs in a blood sample so that a specific number of WBCs can be stained with a
predetermined concentration of DNA dye (e.g., 4'-6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), or
1,5-bis{[2-(di-methylamino) ethyl]amino}-4, 8-dihydroxyanthracene-9,10-dione (DRAQ5*),
or propidium iodide, or other DNA-staining dye). The method of this example comprises
counting WBCs using a fluorophore -conjugated antibody and a spectrophotometer. It should
be understood that this approach may be helpful when staining cells with a DNA dye and
determining ploidy, where the ratio of cell number to DNA dye concentration (cell#: [DNA
dye]) is desirable for generating comparable and consistent data. Given that the number of
cells per microliter of blood vary within a healthy population, it is typically desirable to
determine the number of WBCs per microliter before attempting to stain for ploidy.
     [00142]    In an embodiment, the procedure comprises using cells that are first stained
with a fluorophore-conjugated antibody (where the antibody is preferably directed to a
ubiquitously expressed antigen, such as CD45, or to a subpopulation specific antigen, such as
CD3 for T cells), or fluorescent dye which labels all cells (e.g., a membrane or cytoplasmic
stain such as eosin, or a lectin or other stain or dye) where the wavelength of the fluorescence
from the fluorophore is spectrally distinct (and preferably distant) from the emission
wavelength of the DNA dye. After an incubation period, the sample is washed to remove
excess (unbound) antibody, prepared in the appropriate volume, and analyzed via a
                                                -29
14606381_1

spectrophotometer. The resulting data allows the numbers of WBCs in a blood sample to be
determined, so that a specific volume of blood can be aliquotted (yielding a particular/desired
number of WBCs) and stained with a DNA dye. The resulting data is useful to calculate and
to adapt the amount of DNA dye to be used in staining a sample, according to the number of
WBCs determined using the fluorophore -conjugated antibody as described.
     1001431     A further embodiment comprises determining the number of cells (via DNA
staining) prior to surface staining of the cells. Additional details may also be found in the cell
enumeration section herein below. It is sometimes desirable to enumerate the WBCs in a
blood sample so that a specific number of WBCs can be stained with optimal concentrations
of antibodies. In one embodiment, the method comprises counting WBCs using a DNA dye
and a spectrophotometer, e.g., as discussed above.
     1001441     Alternatively, if the number of cells per microliter was determined prior to
staining, then a known number of cells could be aliquotted and stained for each sample,
regardless of (i) variation within a healthy population and (ii) disease state. To determine the
number of cells per microliter of blood, it may be possible to use DNA dyes such as DAPI,
DRAQ5*, or propidium iodide. Optionally, unbound dye may be washed away. A
spectrophotometer can be used to determine the number of nucleated (e.g., DRAQ5*
positive) cells per microliter of blood.
     1001451     The number and concentration of white blood cells (WBCs) in equal-sized
aliquots of blood may vary from subject to subject. However, for adequate analysis of WBCs
in a blood sample, sufficient amounts of reagents (such as antibodies targeting particular
WBC-specific antigens) may be added, and the amount that is sufficient depends upon the
number and concentration of WBCs in a blood sample. A procedure termed "dynamic
dilution" may be used to ensure that the sufficient antibody reagent is added to a sample. In
one non-limiting example, the procedure treats blood cells in order to obtain a provisional
cell count used to gauge the proper amount of reagent (e.g., an antibody cocktail for staining
white blood cells (WBCs)) to be used with the sample in order to provide complete staining
of the cells. In the procedure, the cells are stained with a DNA dye (e.g., DAPI, DRAQ5*, or
propidium iodide) that is spectrally distinct/distant from the emission of the fluorophore
conjugated antibodies that will be used in subsequent steps or assays. Optionally, the sample
may be washed to remove excess (unbound) DNA dye after an incubation period. After an
incubation period, the sample may be prepared in the appropriate volume, and imaged or
measured using a spectrophotometer. The resulting data allows the number of WBCs in the
known volume of sample to be enumerated/determined, so that a specific volume of blood
                                                -30
14606381_1

can be aliquotted (yielding a particular/desired number of WBCs) and stained with the proper
amount of antibodies (i.e., based on the estimated number of WBCs determined using the
DNA dye, the amount of antibodies may be determined that are required in order to provide
the desired saturation of antibody staining). Thus, the estimate provided by the DNA staining
allows calculation and addition of the proper amount of antibody dye required for the number
of WBCs in the sample aliquot.
    Dynamic Dilution Protocol:
    100146]     In one embodiment, a dynamic dilution protocol involves taking an aliquot of
a blood sample containing white blood cells (WBCs) (e.g., whole blood, or a blood portion
containing WBCs) in order to estimate the amount of reagent containing antibodies targeting
the WBCs that is needed for analysis of the sample.
    100147]     In this non-limiting example, a known volume of a blood sample is taken. A
known amount of nuclear dye (e.g., a DNA-staining dye such as propidium iodide, DAPI, or
Draq5*) is added to this known volume sample. The mixture is then incubated for a period of
2 to 10 minutes at a temperature between 25 'C to 40 'C.
    1001481     Next a red blood cell (RBC) lysis buffer is added. In this non-limiting
example, the mixture is then incubated for a period of 2 to 10 minutes at a temperature
between 25 'C to 40 'C (lower temperatures may also be used). A suitable lysis buffer may
be, for example, a hypotonic saline solution; a hypotonic sucrose solution; an isotonic
ammonium chloride solution; an isotonic solution including a gentle surfactant such as
saponin or other buffer in which RBCs will lyse. Other surfactants disclosed herein may be
used; for example, surfactants which may be suitable for use in a lysis buffer include, without
limitation, polysorbates (e.g., TWEENTM), polyethylene glycols (e.g., TritonT      surfactants),
poloxamers (e.g., PLURONICS TM), detergents, and other amphiphilic compounds. In
embodiments, such lysis buffers will include a fixative (such as, e.g., formaldehyde,
paraformaldehyde, glutaraldehyde, or other fixative) to aid in stabilizing WBCs. A surfactant
such as saponin causes a large number of holes to be formed in the membranes of cells. Red
blood cells, due to their unique membrane properties, are particularly susceptible to this hole
formation and lyse completely, their contents leaking out into the liquid around. The presence
of a fixative prevents unintentional lysis of the white blood cells. Platelets also remain
unlysed. The purpose of this step is to remove intact red blood cells from the mixture as they
outnumber white blood cells by about 1000:1. Platelets do not interfere with imaging and
                                               -31
14606381_1

hence are not a consideration in this process. In embodiments, a lysis buffer may also contain
non-fluorescent beads at a known concentration; these beads may serve as size or
concentration markers. The lysis of the RBCs, along with the subsequent steps of this
protocol, substantially removes any RBC interference to imaging or to optical measurements
of the WBCs. Such optimization of the ratio of lytic agent to fixative (e.g., saponin to
paraformaldehyde) provides effective lysis of RBCs with a minimal volume of lysis buffer
and with minimal adverse effects on WBCs (or platelets) in a sample. By increasing both
lytic agent and fixative concentration (e.g., saponin and paraformaldehyde concentrations,
respectively) Applicants have been able to reduce the concentration of lysis buffer to sample
volume from approximately 20:1 to about 4:1 (lysis buffer volume:sample volume). Further
increases in lytic agent concentration risks excessive increasing of WBC lysis as well as the
desired lysis of RBCs.
     1001491    Next the treated sample is separated, where the separation may be performed
by any suitable method, such as but not limited to spinning the treated sample in a centrifuge
at 1200xg for 3 minutes.
     1001501    Following separation (e.g., centrifugation), the supernatant is removed; the
remaining pellet is then resuspended. In embodiments, the pellet is resuspended in some or all
of the supernatant. A known volume of solution containing the resuspended pellet results
from this step.
     1001511    If desired, a further separation step, and a further resuspension step, may be
performed. These steps provide a concentrated sample with cells that are approximately 10
fold concentrated (ignoring any possible cell losses at each step).
     1001521    The amount of DNA-staining dye in the resuspended, concentrated sample is
then measured. For example, the fluorescence from a fluorescent DNA-staining dye such as
DRAQ5* may be measured in a spectrophotometer. In embodiments, the sample may be
illuminated by light at a wavelength of 632 nm (the excitation wavelength of DRAQ5*), the
light emitted by the cell suspension may be filtered by a 650 nm long pass filter, and then the
emitted light may be measured in a spectrophotometer. This emission measurement is then
correlated with a previously generated calibration curve to estimate a rough concentration of
white blood cells in the cell suspension. Typically, cell concentrations have ranged from
about 1000 cells per microliter to about 100,000 cells per microliter. The estimate of WBC
number obtained in this way may be used to calculate an appropriate dilution factor to ensure
that the concentration of cells in the sample, when used in subsequent quantitative
                                                -32
14606381_1

measurements, is constrained to within a range (e.g., a two-fold or other range) around a pre
defined target concentration. The sample is then diluted per the calculated dilution factor to
provide a sample with a WBC concentration within the desired concentration range.
     1001531    The purpose of this "dynamic dilution" step is to ensure that WBCs are not
present at too high or too low a concentration in the sample. If the cell concentration is too
high, the accuracy of image processing algorithms is compromised, and if the cell
concentration is too low, an insufficient number of cells are sampled. Dilution of a
concentrated sample as disclosed herein provides WBC concentrations within a desired range
and ensures that signals from the sample during analysis will fall within an optimum range
for detection and analysis.
     1001541    In addition, estimation of the number of WBCs in this way allows the
calculation (within a small range) of the amounts of reagents required for further assays and
method steps applied to the sample, since the numbers of WBCs in a sample may vary, yet
the amount of reagent required for the various assays may depend upon the number of WBCs
in the sample to be assayed. For example, the reagents to be added after estimation of WBC
number by the dynamic dilution protocol include antibodies that target specific antigens
found on different types of WBCs, or, if these antigens are found on multiple types of
WBCS, which are present in differing amounts on different types of WBCs. In the absence of
such an estimate of the number of WBCs in a sample, predetermined amounts of dyes and
other reagents must be used in subsequent assays of the sample, leading to incorrect amounts
of reagents and inaccurate or incomplete assay results. Thus, this Dynamic Dilution Protocol
serves as an important and useful initial step in the full assessment of a blood sample from a
patient, and allows for more precise and accurate measurements to be made than would be
possible otherwise.
     Dynamic Staining
     1001551    In some embodiments, methods, systems, and devices are provided herein for
dynamic staining of cell-containing samples.
     100156J    Measurementof a Component of Interest in Cells of a CellularPopulation
     100157]    In one embodiment, a method for dynamically staining a cell sample relates to
a method for the measurement of a component of interest in cells of a cellular population in a
sample.
                                               -33
14606381_1

     1001581     As used herein, a "component of interest" refers to any type of molecule that
may be present in a cell. "Components of interest" include proteins, carbohydrates, and
nucleic acids. Typically, a "component of interest" is a specific species of molecule, such as
a particular antigen. Non-limiting examples of "components of interest" of a cell include:
CD5 protein, CD3 protein, etc.
     100159]     As used herein, a "cellular population" refers to any grouping of cells, based
on one or more common characteristics. A "cellular population" may have any degree of
breadth, and may include a large number of cells or only a small number of cells. Non
limiting examples of "cellular populations" include: red blood cells (RBCs), white blood
cells, B-cells, CD34+ B-cells, etc.
     100160]     In some circumstances, it may be desirable to quantitatively measure a
component of interest in cells of a certain cellular population in a sample from a subject. For
example, it may be desirable to measure the extent of CD5 (the "component of interest")
expression in B-cells (the "cellular population") in a sample of cells from a subject having
chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Detection or measurement of the level of a component of
interest may involve use of a binder molecule that has affinity for the specific component of
interest, such an antibody or single chain variable fragment ("scFv"). In order to accurately
measure the level of a specific component of interest in cells in a method involving the use of
a binder molecule, it may be advantageous to expose the cells to the binder molecule at a
specific ratio or range of ratios of binder molecule to target component of interest. For
example, it may be desirable to provide an amount of binder to a collection of cells such that
there is a linear relationship between the amount of component of interest in the cells and the
amount of binder which binds to the component of interest in the cells. For example, it may
be undesirable to have too little binder (such that there is not enough binder to bind to all of
the components of interest in the cells) or to have too much binder (such that the binder binds
non-specifically to the cells).
     100161]     Using traditional methods, it may be difficult to provide an appropriate level
of binder to a sample in order to accurately measure the amount of component of interest in a
cellular population in the sample, due to the fact that the size of the cellular population or
component of interest in the sample may vary significantly between different samples. In
contrast, provided herein are methods, devices, and systems for dynamically staining cell
samples to accommodate samples containing a wide range of cellular populations and
components of interest.
                                               -34
14606381 _1

     100162]     In one embodiment, a method for the measurement of a component of interest
in cells of a cellular population in a sample is provided. The method is not limited to but may
include one or more of the following steps.
     100163]     First, a quantitative or semi-quantitative measurement of a marker present in
cells of the cellular population may be obtained. The marker may be any marker which is
present in the cellular population of interest, and it may be a marker exclusively present in the
cellular population of interest (i.e. not present in any other cell types in the sample).
Measurement of the marker may be by any method, provided the method does not destroy the
sample, and may use any system or device. A binder which recognizes the marker may be
mixed with the sample. The binder may have a molecule attached to facilitate detection of
the binder (e.g. a fluorescent marker). In an example, the marker may be detected or
measured by fluorescence spectrophotometry. In embodiments in which the binder has a
fluorescent label and the marker is measured by fluorescence spectrophotometry,
fluorescence spectrophotometry may be used to measure a bulk fluorescence from the sample
or a portion thereof , rather than to measure fluorescence from individual cells.
     100164]     Second, based on the quantitative or semi-quantitative measurement of the
marker present in cells of the cellular population, an approximate amount or concentration of
cells of the cellular population present in the sample may be determined. The approximate
number or concentration of cells in the cellular population present in the sample may be
determined, for example, through the use of a calibration curve. Calibration curves may be
prepared or may be available for different markers / binder combinations. Calibration curves
may be developed, for example, by measuring the signal from known numbers of cells having
a certain marker and bound with a certain binder. In some embodiments, the approximate
amount or concentration of cells of the cellular population present in the sample may be
determined with the aid of a computer. In some aspects, the approximate number or
concentration of cells in the cellular population present in the sample may be determined,
with such a determination being no more than about 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100,
150, 200, 250, 300, 400, or 500% off the true concentration.
     100165]     Third, based on the determined amount or concentration of cells in the cellular
population present in the sample, an amount of a reagent to add to the sample may be
selected, wherein the reagent binds specifically to the component of interest in cells of the
cellular population. The reagent may be or include any molecule that binds specifically to the
component of interest. For example, the reagent may be a binder, such as an antibody. The
reagent may be configured such that it may be readily detected (e.g. by fluorescence or
                                                -35
14606381_1

luminescence) or such that under at least some circumstances, it produces a detectable signal.
In some embodiments, the reagent may be attached to a molecule to facilitate detection of the
reagent. The amount of reagent added to the sample may be any amount. In some
embodiments, an amount of reagent may be added to the sample such that there is an
approximately linear relationship between the level of the component of interest in individual
cells of the cellular population and the signal produced by the reagents bound to the
components of interest in individual cells of the cellular population.
     100166]     Fourth, after the amount of a reagent to add to the sample is selected, the
selected amount of reagent may be added to the sample.
     100167]     Fifth, cells in the sample may be assayed for reagent bound to the component
of interest.
     100168]     Sixth, based on the amount of reagent bound to the component of interest, the
amount of the component of interest in cells of the cellular population of the sample may be
determined.
     100169]     In some embodiments, the fifth and sixth steps may be performed together
such that the measurement of the amount of reagent bound to the component of interest is
sufficient to identify the amount of the component of interest in cells of the cellular
population of the sample.
     100170]     In other embodiments, provided herein are systems and devices for the
dynamic staining of samples. The systems and devices may contain, without limitation, a
spectrophotometer and a fluorescence microscope. In an embodiment, a system or method
for dynamic staining of samples may be configured as described in U.S. Patent App. No.
13/244,947 or 13/355,458, which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. In an
embodiment, the systems and devices may be automated to determine an amount of a reagent
to add to a sample to determine the amount of a component of interest in cells of a cellular
population in a sample, based on a measurement of an amount of a marker present in cells of
the cellular population. In another embodiment, the systems and devices may be automated
to determine an amount of a reagent to add to a sample to determine the amount of a first
component in cells of a cellular population in a sample, based on a measurement of an
amount of a second component in the cells of the cellular population in a sample.
Context-Based Autofocus
     100171]     In some embodiments, methods, systems, and devices are provided herein for
context-based microscopy autofocus.
                                               -36
14606381_1

     100172]    The size (e.g., length, height, or other measure) of many clinically relevant
objects in biological samples spans a wide range. For example, bacteria are commonly about
1 tm in length, erythrocytes are commonly about 6-8 pm in length, leukocytes are commonly
about pm 10-12 in length, epithelial cells may be about 100 tm in length, and cast and
crystals may be about 200-300 pm in length. In addition, there are many amorphous
elements such as urinary mucus which exist as strands or filaments which may range from
about 10-400 pm in length.
     100173]    A challenge in microscopy is to acquire precise images of fields of view that
contain an unknown and arbitrary composition of objects of various sizes, such as those
described above. Since the depth of focus of many microscopy objectives is limited (typically
about 1-10 ptm), for a given field of view containing elements of various sizes, multiple focal
planes for the given field of view may need to be acquired in order to obtain accurate sharp
images of the various elements within the field of view. A problem with many traditional
autofocus methods is that they are designed to focus on the dominant feature in a field of
view, so that the sharpness of that feature can be maximized. Such methods may be
ineffective for capturing elements of various sizes in a sample.
     100174]    In one embodiment, a method is provided for context-based microscopy
autofocus, which includes mixing a reference particle of a known size with a sample for
microscopy. In embodiments, more than one reference particle is added to the sample;
preferably all, or substantially all, of such reference particles are of the same known size. In
embodiments, the number of reference particles added to a particular volume of sample is
known. The reference particles may be detected during microscopy, and used to achieve
focusing. By use of the reference particles to achieve focusing, focal planes may be selected
independent from the overall image composition. In one aspect, the method may be useful to
achieve focusing on a sample having an unknown composition of elements. In another aspect,
the method may support the generation of precise planes of focus, independent of the
precision of the microscope or microscopy-related hardware. For example, when a plane of
focus is selected based on feedback from the sharpness of the reference particles within a
field of view, precise focusing on various elements within a sample may be achieved,
regardless of the level of accuracy or precision of the focusing hardware [e.g. the microscope
objective actuation, the shape of a sample holder (e.g. a cuvette or slide), or the non
uniformity of a sample holder].
                                                 -37
14606381_1

     100175]     In an embodiment, a reference particle may contain or be labeled with a
molecule to facilitate detection of the particle during microscopy. In one example, a reference
particle may be labeled with or contain a fluorescent molecule. The fluorescent molecule may
absorb light at a first wavelength of light, and, in response to the absorbance of the first
wavelength of light, it may emit light at a second wavelength. In an embodiment, a sample
mixed with a reference particle may be exposed to a wavelength of light capable of exciting a
fluorescent molecule in a reference particle of interest and emitted light from the fluorescent
molecule may be measured. Specific fluorescence from a reference particle may be used to
detect reference particles, and information from detected reference particles in a sample may
be used for autofocusing.
     100176]     Reference particles may be of any shape, such as spherical or cuboid.
Reference particles include, without limitation, beads and microspheres. Reference particles
may be of any size, such as with a diameter or length of about 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7,
0.8, 0.9, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 125,
150, 175, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, or 500 ptm. Reference particles may be made of, or
may contain, any suitable material, such as polystyrene, polyethylene, latex, acrylic, or glass.
For example, a reference particle may be a polystyrene bead, e.g., a polystyrene bead having
a diameter of between about 0.1 pm and about 50 pim; or between about 1 pm and about 20
pim; or between about 5 pm and about 15 pim; or having a diameter of about 10 pim.
     100177]     In one embodiment, a method for focusing a microscope is provided, which
may include one or more of the following steps. First, a sample containing an object for
microscopic analysis (e.g. bacteria, erythrocytes, etc.) may be mixed with a reference particle.
The reference particle may contain or be labeled with a molecule to facilitate the detection of
the particle, such as a fluorophore. Second, the mixture containing the reference particle and
the sample may be positioned into a light path of a microscope, for example in cuvette or
slide. Optionally, the reference particle may sink to the bottom of the sample in the cuvette or
slide, such that the reference particle rests on the lowest surface of the cuvette or slide which
is in contact with the sample. The microscope may be of any type, including a fluorescent
microscope. Third, the mixture may be exposed to a light beam configured to visualize the
reference particle. The light beam may be of any type, and may be of any orientation relative
to the reference particle. For example, the light beam may be at a wavelength capable of
exciting a fluorophore within or attached to the reference particle. Exposure of the reference
particle to the light beam may result in, for example, the generation and emission of light at a
                                                   -38
14606381_1

particular wavelength from the reference particle or scattering of light from the reference
particle. Fourth, light emitted or scattered from the reference particle may be detected by the
microscope, and this information may be used in order to determine the position of the
reference particle within the mixture or to focus the microscope. Optionally, the microscope
may be focused into a plane of focus suited for objects of similar size to the reference
particle. An image from the microscope may be obtained by an image sensor. The image may
be saved or or used for image analysis.
     100178]      In some embodiments, a plurality of reference particles may be added to a
sample. The reference particles may be all of the same size, or they may be of different sizes.
In some embodiments, reference particles of different sizes contain different fluorophores.
Different fluorophores may have different absorption wavelengths, different emission
wavelengths, or both.
     100179]      In an embodiment, a method for focusing a microscope is provided, including
mixing more than one reference particle of known size with a sample for microscopy,
wherein at least two of the reference particles are of different sizes and contain different
fluorophores. The method may include one or more of the following steps. First, a sample
containing an object for microscopic analysis may be mixed with two or more reference
particles, wherein at least two of the reference particles are of different sizes and contain
different fluorophores (i.e. the "first reference particle" and the "second reference particle").
Second, the mixture containing the reference particles and the sample may be positioned into
the light path of a microscope. The microscope may be of any type, including a fluorescent
microscope. Third, the mixture may be exposed to a light beam configured to visualize the
first reference particle. The light beam may be of any type, and may be of any orientation
relative to the first reference particle. For example, the light beam may be at a wavelength
capable of exciting a fluorophore within or attached to the first reference particle. Exposure
of the first reference particle to the light beam may result in the generation and emission or
scattering of light at a particular wavelength from the first reference particle. Fourth, light
emitted or scattered from the first reference particle may be detected, and this information
may be used in order to determine the position of the first reference particle within the
mixture or to focus the microscope into a first plane of focus suited for objects of similar size
to the first reference particle. Optionally, an image of the first focal plane may be obtained by
an image sensor. The image may be saved or or used for image analysis. Fifth, the mixture
may be exposed to a light beam configured to visualize the second reference particle. The
light beam may be of any type, and may be of any orientation relative to the second reference
                                                -39
14606381_1

particle. Exposure of the second reference particle to the light beam may result in the
generation and emission or scattering of light at a particular wavelength from the second
reference particle. Sixth, light emitted or scattered from the second reference particle may be
detected, and this information may be used in order to determine the position of the second
reference particle within the mixture or to focus the microscope into a second plane of focus
suited for objects of similar size to the second reference particle. Optionally, an image of the
second focal plane may be obtained by an image sensor. The image may be saved or or used
for image analysis.
     1001801    In other embodiments, provided herein are systems and devices for context
based microscopy autofocus. The systems and devices may contain, without limitation, a
fluorescence microscope. In an embodiment, the systems and devices may be automated to
add a reference particle having a known size to a sample for microscopic analysis to form a
mixture, to position the mixture into the light path of a microscope, to expose the mixture to a
light beam configured to visualize the reference particle, to determine the position of the
reference particle within the mixture or to focus the microscope based on the position of the
reference particle within the mixture. In an embodiment, a system or method for context
based microscopy autofocus may be configured as described in U.S. Patent App. No.
13/244,947 or 13/355,458, which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
Locating a Sample Holder
     1001811    In some embodiments, methods, systems, and devices are provided herein for
determining the location of a sample holder, or of a portion of, or indicial mark on, a sample
holder. Such a determination is preferably a precise determination, and is useful for
identifying cells, particles, or other objects in a field of view within a sample holder even
after a sample holder has been moved, or a field of view has been altered (e.g., by changing
focus, or by inspection of different areas in a sample holder).
     1001821    In embodiments, an image based feedback mechanism may be used to
accurately and precisely determine a certain location in a cuvette, e.g., in a channel or other
region containing a sample (see, e.g., an analysis area 608 shown in Figures 7 and 8). Such
determination, particularly when the sample holder is moved, and then returned to a previous
position, is important for comparison of images and optical measurements taken before such
movement, and after such movement. Variability from multiple sources may affect the
position of the sample relative to the axis of the imaging system; for example, variability in
cuvette parts, variability in cuvette assembly, variability in cuvette positioning on the imaging
system, and other possible sources of variability may affect the position of a sample with
                                                 -40
14606381_1

respect to the imaging system even if the sample remains in the same position within the
sample holder. Methods for identifying and characterizing the position of a sample holder
with respect to an imaging system are disclosed herein. For example, in order to accurately
and reproducibly image an area of interest in a cuvette, a cuvette registration program may be
run. In embodiments, such a program begins by analyzing images taken at a predefined
location in a sample holder, the predefined location being close to a registration feature or
fiducial marker within the field of view, or otherwise detectable by the program. A cuvette
registration program comprises an image processing program, which image processing
program searches for the existence of the fiducial marker in the image and returns either a
yes/no answer (regarding whether or not the fiducial marker is found within the inspected
region) or a probability of the marker being in the image. In instances where the fiducial
marker is not found in the area that has been inspected, a search algorithm is then used, which
moves the area of inspection to a different location on or in the sample holder, and repeats the
imaging. This process is repeated until the program finds the fiducial marker (i.e. gets a "yes"
to the question of whether or not the fiducial marker is found within the inspected region, or
maximizes the probability of the marker being within that region). Once the position of the
fiducial marker is identified, all other positions in or on the sample holder may be
determined, since the dimensions and layout of the sample holder are known. Thus, following
identification of the location of the fiducial marker, any point of interest for imaging can be
found and imaged, as the location of the point of interest is thus known also (i.e., its distance
and orientation from the fiducial marker is known, and, since the position of the fiducial
marker is known, the point of interest is also known). In embodiments, a fiducial marker can
be or include a specially engineered feature on the cuvette itself (e.g., may be a hole, a
protrusion, a printed or molded pattern, or other feature) which can be manufactured to be in
the same location for every part to any desired tolerance. In embodiments, a fiducial marker
may be or include a feature of the cuvette (e.g., the edge of a channel) that is always at a
fixed distance from the point of interest (e.g., where the fiducial marker is the edge of
channel, the fiducial marker is always a fixed distance from the central axis of the channel).
Cell Counting / Enumerating Cells
     1001831    In some embodiments, methods, systems, and devices are provided herein for
enumerating cells in a sample.
     1001841    Certain traditional methods for staining cell-containing samples involve
staining a specific volume of a sample (e.g. blood) with a particular concentration or amount
of stain. This may be referred to as "volumetric staining." Volumetric staining has a number
                                                -41
14606381_1

of shortcomings, including: (i) it fails to address normal variations in cell subpopulations
between different subjects (e.g. different healthy subjects may have widely different numbers
of subpopulations of cells, such as CD3+ T cells (where "CD3+" indicates that the T cells
express the CD3 marker)) and (ii) it fails to address that pathological samples may have
dramatically different cellular composition when compared to healthy samples (e.g. the
percent and number of CD3+ T cells in blood are greatly elevated in patients with T cell
leukemia over the percent and number in healthy subjects).
     1001851     For accurate and reproducible staining of cell-containing samples, it may be
desirable to add a specific amount of a cellular stain (e.g. DNA dyes, antibodies, binders,
etc.) to a specific number or concentration of cells. For example, it may be desirable to add
0.2 micrograms of a particular stain for white blood cells per 1000 white blood cells in a
sample. After an incubation period of the dye with the cells, a sample may be washed to
remove excess (unbound) dye, prepared to an appropriate cell density for microscopy, and
imaged. In this manner, a stain and staining procedure can be optimized or normalized for a
particular cell number.
     100186]     In one embodiment, a method is provided for enumerating the number of cells
of interest in a sample. The method may include one or more of the following steps or
elements. A first stain that will bind to the cells of interest in a sample may be added to the
sample. The mixture of first stain and sample may be incubated. The cells in the mixture of
first stain and sample may be washed to remove excess (unbound) stain. The washed cells
stained with a first stain may be prepared in a desired volume for further analysis. The
washed cells stained with a first stain may be analyzed by a spectrophotometer. Data from the
spectrophotometer may be used to enumerate the approximate number of cells in the sample.
For example, the first stain may be a fluorescent dye which binds to nucleic acids, and the
spectrophotometer may include a light source which emits light at an excitation wavelength
of the fluorescent dye, and a light sensor which can detect light in the emission wavelength of
the fluorescent dye. In this example, based on the fluorescent signal from the dye, the
approximate amount of nucleic acid in the sample may be calculated, and from this
approximate amount of nucleic acid in the sample, the approximate number of cells in the
sample may be determined. Based on the number of cells in the sample, a second stain that
will bind to cells of interest in a sample may be added to the sample. In embodiments, the
amount of second stain added to the sample may be determined in view of the approximate
number of cells determined using the first stain. In embodiments, the amount of second stain
added to the sample may be calculated using the number of cells determined by use of the
                                                -42
14606381_1

first stain, in order that a desired ratio of second stain per cell be obtained. The mixture of
second stain and sample may be incubated. The cells in the mixture of second stain and
sample may be washed to remove excess stain. The washed cells stained with a second stain
may be prepared in a desired volume for further analysis. The washed cells stained with a
second stain may be analyzed by microscopy.
     EnumeratingCells in a Sample Priorto Determiningthe Ploidy of Cells
     100187]      In one embodiment, a method for enumerating cells in a sample prior to
determining the ploidy of the cells is provided, wherein the method includes one or more of
the following steps or elements. A first stain which binds to the cells of interest in the sample
and that is spectrally distinct from the emission of a DNA dye may be added to the sample.
The cells of interest may be, for example, white blood cells. The first stain may be, for
example, a fluorophore-conjugated antibody. A fluorophore-conjugated antibody may bind
to, for example, a widely expressed antigen (e.g. CD45), or it may bind to an antigen
expressed by a specific sub-population of cells (e.g. CD3 for T cells). The mixture of first
stain and sample may be incubated. The cells in the mixture of first stain and sample may be
washed to remove excess (unbound) stain. The washed cells stained with a first stain may be
prepared in a desired volume for further analysis. The washed cells stained with a first stain
may be analyzed by a spectrophotometer. Data from the spectrophotometer may be used to
enumerate the approximate number of cells in the sample. Based on the number of cells in the
sample, a second stain that will bind to cells of interest in a sample may be added to the
sample. The second stain may be a DNA dye, such as propidium iodide or 4',6-diamidino-2
phenylindole ("DAPI"). In embodiments, the amount of second stain added to the sample
may be determined in view of the approximate number of cells determined using the first
stain. In embodiments, the amount of second stain added to the sample may be calculated
using the number of cells determined by use of the first stain, in order that a desired ratio of
second stain per cell be obtained. The mixture of second stain and sample may be incubated.
The cells in the mixture of second stain and sample may be washed to remove excess stain.
The washed cells stained with a second stain may be prepared in a desired volume for further
analysis. The washed cells stained with a second stain may be analyzed for ploidy by
microscopy.
     1001881      In methods for determining the ploidy of cells, it may be important to combine
a given number of cells for ploidy analysis with a certain amount or concentration of DNA
stain, in order to generate accurate and consistent data regarding the ploidy of the cells. In
one example, the number of white blood cells per volume of blood may vary within a healthy
                                                 -43
14606381_1

population, and thus, it may be desirable to determine the number of white blood cells in a
volume of blood before attempting to stain the white blood cells for ploidy analysis.
     100189]     The methods provided above for determining the ploidy of cells may also be
performed for any method in which enumerating cells in a sample prior to determining an
attribute related to the nucleic acid content of a cell is desired. For example, the above
method may be used with methods involving enumerating cells in a sample prior to
determining the morphology of nuclei of cells, the size of the nuclei of cells, the ratio of
nuclei area to total cell area, etc.
     EnumeratingCells in a Sample Priorto Cell Surface Staining
     100190]     In one embodiment, a method for enumerating cells in a sample prior to cell
surface staining is provided, wherein the method includes one or more of the following steps
or elements. A first stain which binds to the cells of interest in the sample and that is
spectrally distinct from the emission of a dye to be used to stain the surface of the cells of
interest may be added to the sample. The cells of interest may be, for example, white blood
cells. The first stain may be, for example, a DNA dye (e.g. propidium iodide, DRAQ5* or
DAPI). The mixture of first stain and sample may be incubated. The cells in the mixture of
first stain and sample may be washed to remove excess (unbound) stain. The washed cells
stained with a first stain may be prepared in a desired volume for further analysis. The
washed cells stained with a first stain may be analyzed by a spectrophotometer. Data from
the spectrophotometer may be used to enumerate the approximate number of cells in the
sample. Based on the number of cells in the sample, a second stain that will bind to cells of
interest in a sample may be added to the sample. In embodiments, the amount of second stain
added to the sample may be determined in view of the approximate number of cells
determined using the first stain. In embodiments, the amount of second stain added to the
sample may be calculated using the number of cells determined by use of the first stain, in
order that a desired ratio of second stain per cell be obtained. The second stain may be, for
example, a fluorophore-conjugated antibody. A fluorophore-conjugated antibody may bind
to, for example, a widely expressed antigen (e.g. CD45), or it may bind to an antigen
expressed by a specific sub-population of cells (e.g. CD3 for T cells). The mixture of second
stain and sample may be incubated. The cells in the mixture of second stain and sample may
be washed to remove excess stain. The washed cells stained with a second stain may be
prepared in a desired volume for further analysis. The washed cells stained with a second
stain may be analyzed for a cell surface antigen by microscopy.
                                               -44
14606381_1

     100191]     In methods for cell surface antigen staining of cells, it may be important to
combine a given number of cells for analysis with a certain amount or concentration of cell
surface antigen stain, in order to generate accurate and consistent data regarding the content
of the cell surfaces. In one example, the number of white blood cells per volume of blood
may vary within a healthy population (blood from healthy subjects typically has between
about 3000 and 10,000 WBCs per microliter (pL)), and thus, it may be desirable to determine
the number of white blood cells in a volume of blood before attempting to stain the white
blood cells for cell surface antigens. In another example, the number of white blood cells per
volume of blood may vary between healthy and sick subjects (e.g., lymphoma patients may
have up to 100,000 WBCs per pL of blood), and thus, it may be desirable to determine the
number of white blood cells in a volume of blood before attempting to stain the white blood
cells for cell surface antigens.
     100192]     Thus, as a theoretical example, a healthy patient may have 5000 cells per pL
of blood, and 500 of these are CD3+ T cells, while a lymphoma patient may have 50,000
cells per microliter of blood and 45,000 of these are CD3+ T cells. If 100 microliters of
blood is traditionally stained, then a sample from a healthy subject would contain about
500,000 total cells, of which about 50,000 cells would be CD3+ T cells. A 100 microliter
sample from a lymphoma subject would contain about 5,000,000 total cells, of which about
4,500,000 cells would be CD3+ T cells. In this theoretical example, the pathological sample
contains ten times the number of total cells and ninety times the number of CD3+ T cells,
when compared to a sample from a healthy subject. If the pathological sample would be
stained with a traditional "volumetric staining" approach that is optimized for samples from
healthy subjects, the sample from the lymphoma subject may be insufficiently stained. For
this reason, for example, the present methods in which a prior estimate of the number of cells
in a sample is used to adjust the amount of dye applied to a sample provide advantages over
traditional volumetric staining methods.
     100193]     Accordingly, methods provided herein may be used to enumerate cells in a
sample before cell staining, in order to generate accurate or consistent data regarding
samples.
Method Speeds
     100194]     Methods, systems, and devices provided herein may support the rapid
acquisition of sample analysis results. Methods provided herein may provide analysis results
in less than, for example, about 6 hours, 4 hours, 3 hours, 2 hours, 1 hour, 45 minutes, 30
minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, or 5 minutes from the initiation of the method.
                                               -45
14606381_1

     100195]    Rapid analysis results may be used to provide real-time information relevant
to the treatment, diagnosis, or monitoring of a patient. For example, rapid analysis results
may be used to guide a treatment decision of a surgeon operating on a patient. During
surgery, a surgeon may obtain a biological sample from a patient for analysis. By receiving
rapid analysis of a sample by a method provided herein, a surgeon may be able to make a
treatment decision during the course of surgery.
     100196]    In another example, rapid analysis results provided by the methods, systems,
and devices provided herein may support a patient receiving information regarding a
biological sample provided by the patient at a point of service during the same visit to the
point of service location in which the patient provided the biological sample.
     100197]    For example, Applicants describe herein a rapid assay which may be used to
prepare a sample of whole blood for analysis of white blood cells for the presence of multiple
markers and cell types. Such an assay is useful for preparing samples of whole blood for
imaging analysis; the samples are ready for imaging in less than about 20 minutes, or in less
than about 15 minutes.
     Rapid White Blood Cell Assay from Whole Blood
     100198]    This assay prepares samples of whole blood for cytometric analysis of white
blood cells in less than about 15 minutes or less than about 20 minutes. Automated
cytometric analysis of such prepared cells may also be done rapidly, so that cytometric WBC
analysis can be performed from whole blood in about half an hour or less. In addition, this
assay uses only a small volume of the blood sample, so is sparing of resources, and less
inconvenient or uncomfortable to a subject than assays which require larger volumes of
blood.
     100199]    Reagents used in this assay include: phosphate buffered saline, Lyse Fix
buffer, beads, resuspension buffer, and reagent cocktails which contain dyes and dye
conjugated antibodies. The antibodies are directed to specific WBC markers.
     1002001    Phosphate buffered saline (PBS): 137 mM NaCl, 3 mM KCl, 8 mM,
Na2HPO4, 1.5 mM KH2PO4, pH adjusted to pH to 7.2 to pH 7.4 (with HCl).
     1002011    Resuspension buffer (RSB): 5% bovine serum albumin in PBS.
     1002021    Lyse Fix buffer: 0.0266% saponin in PBS with 10% paraformaldehyde (PFA),
where "%" indicates grams/100 mL (final ratio is approximately 13:1 saponin PBS:PFA).
     1002031    Reagent Cocktail 1: DRAQ5*, anti-CD14 antibody conjugated to Pacific
Blue TM dye, Fc block (e.g., immunoglobulin such as mouse IgG), in 0.2% BSA in PBS.
                                              -46
14606381_1

    1002041     Reagent Cocktail 2: anti-CD16 antibody conjugated to phycoerythrin (PE)
dye, anti-CD45 antibody conjugated to Alexa Fluor* 647 dye, anti-CD 123 antibody
conjugated to PECy5 dye, Fc block (e.g., immunoglobulin), in 15% BSA in PBS.
    1002051     Assay steps include:
    100206]     Obtain whole blood from a subject.
    100207]     Place 50 pL of whole blood in a tube. If desired, the blood sample may be
acquired directly to a tube. Where 50 pL is the total amount of blood taken from the subject,
then the entire sample is added or acquired to a tube; where more than 50 pL is acquired from
a subject, then the 50 pL is an aliquot of the sample.
    1002081     Centrifuge the sample at 1200xg for 3 minutes.
    100209]     Remove 20 pL of plasma from the tube.
    1002101     Place the tube on heat block (to raise the temperature to 37 'C), add 20 pL of
RSB, and mix thoroughly.
    100211]     Add Cocktail 1 (approximately 5 pL). (In embodiments, Cocktail 1 may be
added directly to whole blood, and the previous steps of centrifugation, removal of an aliquot
of plasma and replacement with RSB may be omitted.)
    1002121     Incubate the sample at 37 'C for 2 minutes.
    1002131     Add Lyse Fix buffer (at a 6:1 ratio of (Lyse Fix buffer) to (stained blood);
approximately 300-350 pL). A known concentration of beads may be included in the Lyse
Fix buffer to provide targets (reference particles) for focusing and to provide a calibration for
the concentration of the sample (e.g., as described above under the heading "Context-based
Autofocus"). Polystyrene or other beads, having diameters of about 1 micron to about 30
microns, may be used. For example, 10 micron polystyrene beads at a concentration of about
100 beads to about 2000 beads per microliter (pL), or of about 150 beads to about 1500 beads
per pL, or of about 200 beads to about 1000 beads per pL, may be used.
    1002141     Incubate in the Lyse Fix buffer at 37 'C for a total of 3 minutes; at about 1.5
minutes after addition of the buffer, mix by pipetting the solution up and down five times.
    1002151     Centrifuge the sample mixture at 1200xg for 3 minutes.
    100216]     Remove the supernatant (approximately 350 pL). Save the supernatant to
adjust the volume, if needed, in later steps.
    100217]     Add Cocktail 2 (approximately 15 pL) to provide the final mixture.
    1002181     Load the final mixture on a pre-warmed imaging cuvette (37 'C).
    100219]     Incubate the cuvette at 37 'C for 5 minutes before imaging.
    100220]     Image the sample.
                                               -47
14606381_1

     100221]    Thus, the sample is ready for imaging in less than about 15 minutes. In
embodiments, some of the steps may be shortened (e.g., in alternative embodiments, a
centrifugation step or an incubation step may be shortened). Since the methods disclosed
above prepare the sample using cocktails which include multiple dyes, analysis of these
samples for the presence of several cell-type markers may be performed within a single field
of view, providing efficient imaging of the samples with minimal duplication of effort. Light
scatter images of these same fields of view provides yet another aspect of analysis which may
be applied efficiently without requiring separate samples or separate fields of view for the
several modes of image analysis of the samples. Inclusion of reference particles of a known
size further aids imaging by allowing use of automatic focusing and, since the concentration
of the reference particles is known, provides an independent measure of sample dilution and
cell concentration in each image.
     1002221    The imaging of the prepared sample may also be done rapidly; for example,
such imaging may be performed in about 10 minutes (typically between about 2 minutes and
about 12 minutes) by automatic devices having features as described herein and, for example,
in U.S. Patent Application 13/244,947, in U.S. Patent Application 13/769,779, and related
applications. Thus, in embodiments, the entire analysis, including preparation of the blood
sample and imaging of the prepared sample, may be performed in about 30 minutes or less.
     1002231    The images and image analysis obtained from samples prepared according to
the methods discussed above (and similar methods discussed below) are suitable for
identifying different populations of WBCs from whole blood. Such identification and
quantification is done rapidly on the same sample by illumination of the sample (e.g.,
sequentially) with different wavelengths of light and recording and analyzing the resulting
images and light intensities. Such methods are suitable for providing the images and plots as
shown, for example, in Figures 9, 10, and 11, which were prepared using methods as
disclosed herein (e.g., methods discussed both supra and infra). The comparisons shown in
Figure 12 demonstrate that these methods are accurate and reliable, and correlate well with
other methods (e.g., analysis by an Abbott CELL-DYN Ruby System (Abbott Diagnostics,
Lake Forest, IL, USA)) the reference analyzer used for the comparisons shown in Figure 12.
Analysis of Pathology Samples
     1002241    Any of the methods provided herein may be used to analyze cell-containing
pathology samples. If a pathology sample is a tissue sample, the sample may be treated to
separate the cells of the tissue into individual cells for analysis by methods provided herein.
                                                -48
14606381_1

     1002251     Analysis of pathology samples by any of the methods provided herein may
support rapid pathology analysis, and the rapid integration of pathology analysis results into a
treatment decision for a patient.
Additional Procedures in Response to Analysis Results
     100226]     In some embodiments, the devices and systems provided herein may be
configured to trigger an additional procedure in response to a result obtained by an analysis
method provided herein.
     100227]     In one example, a device or system may be programmed to provide an alert to
a user if a result is outside of an expected range. The alert may prompt a user or medical
personnel to, for example, manually analyze a sample, check the device or system for proper
operation, etc.
     1002281     In another example, a device or system may be programmed to automatically
run one or more additional tests on a sample if a result is within or outside of a certain range.
In some examples, devices and systems provided herein are capable of performing multiple
different assays, and the device or system may run an addition assay to verify or further
investigate a result generated by a method provided herein.
Analysis using Non-specific Dyes
     100229]     One non-limiting example to accelerate imaging is to use a "high light"
situation, where cells are labeled with very high concentration of dyes. In the present
embodiment, non-specific dyes are used that label the DNA, the membranes, or other portion
of the cells. This example does not use antibody dyes that target specific and rare proteins or
other markers.
     1002301     With the non-specific dye, it is possible to obtain cell information without
requiring a separation step (such as, e.g., separation by centrifugation or by performing
physical separation). Without this separation step, one can more rapidly move directly to
imaging the sample, such as but not limited imaging a large area of cells that may include
both a) non-target cells such as red blood cells (RBCs) and b) target cells or objects of
interest such as white blood cells (WBCs). Thus, in one non-limiting example of imaging a
blood sample, one can image five million RBCs and five thousand or other number of WBCs
therein. The targeted cells can be differentiated based on what is inside the cell such as but
not limited to the shape of the nucleus of a cell. In one embodiment, a nuclear stain is used to
stain the nuclei of cells in a sample, and based on the kind and amount of staining a particular
cell has (e.g., the presence of nuclear staining, or the shape of a stained nucleus, or other
characteristic), one can determine its cell type based on this staining, even though the dye is
                                                -49
14606381_1

non-specific. In other examples, other internal shapes in the cell (such as, e.g., whether or not
the cytoplasm has granules or other objects therein) can be indicative or characteristic and be
used to identify and quantify cells in a sample. For a urine sample, any cells present, and
crystal shapes in the sample can be used to identify a sample and to determine whether or not
abnormalities are found. In this manner, the use of non-specific dyes can be used to rapidly
image cells in a manner that can be used to determine cells as desired.
Analysis using a plurality of Excitation or Detection channels
     100231]     In the context of using even smaller sample volumes for cytometry, in
embodiments of advanced cytometry assays, an additional excitation or detection wavelength
may be used. For example, for classification of WBCs in a lymphocyte subset assay, the
various cells such as T cells, B cells, K cells, and other cells are to be counted. In this case,
one uses two markers merely to identify that the cell is a lymphocyte. To further sub-classify
the cells in a blood sample, for example, one may again use two markers. Thus, if one has a
system that can only detect two colors at a time, there is an insufficient number of
wavelengths for the analysis.
     1002321     In one embodiment, one can aliquot the sample to make two separate sample
portions and then one can image one combination in one part and another combination in
another part of the system, using different parts of the sample. Unfortunately, this can cause a
doubling of volume and time. The more independent channels that are built into a system, the
lesser the number of these sample parts or volume used.
                                             EXAMPLES
     Cell Processing
     1002331     In embodiments, it is often useful to process biological samples for imaging,
testing, and analysis. For example, it is often useful to process biological samples containing
cells for imaging, testing, and analysis.
     1002341     Processing of a biological sample may include pre-processing (e.g.,
preparation of a sample for a subsequent processing or measurement), processing (e.g.,
alteration of a sample so that it differs from its original, or previous, state), and post
processing (e.g., disposal of all or a portion of a sample following its measurement or use). A
biological sample may be divided into portions, such as aliquots of a blood or urine sample,
or such as slicing, mincing, or dividing a tissue sample into two or more pieces. Processing of
a biological sample, such as blood sample, may include mixing, stirring, sonication,
homogenization, or other processing of a sample or of a portion of the sample. Processing of
                                                -50
14606381_1

a biological sample, such as blood sample, may include centrifugation of a sample or a
portion thereof. Processing of a biological sample, such as blood sample, may include
providing time for components of the sample to separate or settle, and may include filtration
(e.g., passing the sample or a portion thereof through a filter). Processing of a biological
sample, such as blood sample, may include allowing or causing a blood sample to coagulate.
Processing of a biological sample, such as blood sample, may include concentration of the
sample, or of a portion of the sample (e.g., by sedimentation or centrifugation of a blood
sample, or of a solution containing a homogenate of tissue from a tissue sample) to provide a
pellet and a supernatant. Processing of a biological sample, such as blood sample, may
include dilution of a portion of the sample. Dilution may be of a sample, or of a portion of a
sample, including dilution of a pellet or of a supernatant from sample. A biological sample
may be diluted with water, or with a saline solution, such as a buffered saline solution. A
biological sample may be diluted with a solution which may or may not include a fixative
(e.g., formaldehyde, paraformaldehyde, glutaraldehyde, or other cross-linking agent). A
biological sample may be diluted with a solution effective that an osmotic gradient is
produced between the surrounding solution and the interior, or an interior compartment, of
such cells, effective that the cell volume is altered. For example, where the resulting solution
concentration following dilution is less than the effective concentration of the interior of a
cell, or of an interior cell compartment, the volume of such a cell will increase (i.e., the cell
will swell). A biological sample may be diluted with a solution which may or may not
include an osmoticant (such as, for example, glucose, sucrose, or other sugar; salts such as
sodium, potassium, ammonium, or other salt; or other osmotically active compound or
ingredient). In embodiments, an osmoticant may be effective to maintain the integrity of cells
in the sample, by, for example, stabilizing or reducing possible osmotic gradients between the
surrounding solution and the interior, or an interior compartment, of such cells. In
embodiments, an osmoticant may be effective to provide or to increase osmotic gradients
between the surrounding solution and the interior, or an interior compartment, of such cells,
effective that the cells at least partially collapse (where the cellular interior or an interior
compartment is less concentrated than the surrounding solution), or effective that the cells
swell (where the cellular interior or an interior compartment is more concentrated than the
surrounding solution).
     1002351     A biological sample may be contacted with a solution containing a surfactant,
which may disrupt the membranes of cells in the sample, or have other effects on cell
                                                  -51
14606381_1

morphology. For example, contacting RBCs with a low concentration of a surfactant causes
the RBCs to lose their disc-like shape and to assume a more spherical shape.
     100236]      A biological sample may be dyed, or markers may be added to the sample, or
the sample may be otherwise prepared for detection, visualization, or quantification of the
sample, a portion of a sample, a component part of a sample, or a portion of a cell or structure
within a sample. For example, a biological sample may be contacted with a solution
containing a dye. A dye may stain or otherwise make visible a cell, or a portion of a cell, or a
material or molecule associated with a cell in a sample. A dye may bind to or be altered by an
element, compound, or other component of a sample; for example a dye may change color, or
otherwise alter one of more of its properties, including its optical properties, in response to a
change or differential in the pH of a solution in which it is present; a dye may change color,
or otherwise alter one of more of its properties, including its optical properties, in response to
a change or differential in the concentration of an element or compound (e.g., sodium,
calcium, C02, glucose, or other ion, element, or compound) present in a solution in which the
dye is present. For example, a biological sample may be contacted with a solution containing
an antibody or an antibody fragment. For example, a biological sample may be contacted
with a solution that includes particles. Particles added to a biological sample may serve as
standards (e.g., may serve as size standards, where the size or size distribution of the particles
is known, or as concentration standards, where the number, amount, or concentration of the
particles is known), or may serve as markers (e.g., where the particles bind or adhere to
particular cells or types of cells, to particular cell markers or cellular compartments, or where
the particles bind to all cells in a sample).
     100237]      Cytometry includes observations and measurements of cells, such as red blood
cells, platelets, white blood cells, including qualitative and quantitative observations and
measurements of cell numbers, cell types, cell surface markers, internal cellular markers, and
other characteristics of cells of interest. Where a biological sample includes or is a blood
sample, the sample may be divided into portions, and may be diluted (e.g., to provide greater
volume for ease of handling, to alter the density or concentration of cellular components in
the sample to provide a desired diluted density, concentration, or cell number or range of
these, etc.). The sample may be treated with agents which affect coagulation, or may be
treated or handled so as to concentrate or precipitate sample components (e.g., ethylene
diamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) or heparin may be added to the sample, or the sample may
be centrifuged or cells allowed to settle). A sample, or portion of a sample, may be treated by
                                                 -52
14606381_1

adding dyes or other reagents which may react with and mark particular cells or particular
cellular components. For example, dyes which mark cell nuclei (e.g., hematoxylin dyes,
cyanine dyes, draq dyes such as DRAQ5*, and others); dyes which mark cell cytoplasm (e.g.,
eosin dyes, including fluorescein dyes, and others) may be used separately or together to aid
in visualization, identification, and quantification of cells. More specific markers, including
antibodies and antibody fragments specific for cellular targets, such as cell surface proteins,
intracellular proteins and compartments, and other targets, are also useful in cytometry.
      1002381    Biological samples may be measured and analyzed by cytometry using optical
means, including, for example, photodiode detectors, photomultipliers, charge-coupled
devices, laser diodes, spectrophotometers, cameras, microscopes, or other devices which
measure light intensity (of a single wavelength, of multiple wavelengths, or of a range, or
ranges, of wavelengths of light), form an image, or both. A field of view including a sample,
or portion of a sample, may be imaged, or may be scanned, or both, using such detectors. A
biological sample may be measured and analyzed by cytometry prior to processing, dilution,
separation, centrifugation, coagulation, or other alteration. A biological sample may be
measured and analyzed by cytometry during or following processing, dilution, separation,
centrifugation, coagulation, or other alteration of the sample. For example, a biological
sample may be measured and analyzed by cytometry directly following receipt of the sample.
In other examples, a biological sample may be measured and analyzed by cytometry during
or after processing, dilution, separation, centrifugation, coagulation, or other alteration of the
sample.
      100239]    For example, a blood sample or portion thereof may be prepared for cytometry
by sedimentation or centrifugation. A sedimented or pellet portion of such a sample may be
resuspended in a buffer of choice prior to cytometric analysis (e.g., by aspiration, stirring,
sonication, or other processing). A biological sample may be diluted or resuspended with
water, or with a saline solution, such as a buffered saline solution prior to cytometric analysis.
A solution used for such dilution or resuspension may or may not include a fixative (e.g.,
formaldehyde, paraformaldehyde, or other agent which cross-links proteins). A solution used
for such dilution or resuspension may provide an osmotic gradient between the surrounding
solution and the interior, or an interior compartment, of cells in the sample, effective that the
cell volume of some or all cells in the sample is altered. For example, where the resulting
solution concentration following dilution is less than the effective concentration of the
interior of a cell, or of an interior cell compartment, the volume of such a cell will increase
(i.e., the cell will swell). A biological sample may be diluted with a solution which may or
                                                -53
14606381_1

may not include an osmoticant (such as, for example, glucose, sucrose, or other sugar; salts
such as sodium, potassium, ammonium, or other salt; or other osmotically active compound
or ingredient). In embodiments, an osmoticant may be effective to maintain the integrity of
cells in the sample, by, for example, stabilizing or reducing possible osmotic gradients
between the surrounding solution and the interior, or an interior compartment, of such cells.
In embodiments, an osmoticant may be effective to provide or to increase osmotic gradients
between the surrounding solution and the interior, or an interior compartment, of such cells,
effective that the cells at least partially collapse (where the cellular interior or an interior
compartment is less concentrated than the surrounding solution), or effective that the cells
swell (where the cellular interior or an interior compartment is more concentrated than the
surrounding solution).
     1002401     For example, a biological sample may be measured or analyzed following
dilution of a portion of the sample with a solution including dyes. For example, a biological
sample may be measured or analyzed following dilution of a portion of the sample with a
solution including antibodies or antibody fragments. For example, a biological sample may
be measured or analyzed following dilution of a portion of the sample with a solution
including particles. Particles added to a biological sample may serve as standards (e.g., may
serve as size standards, where the size or size distribution of the particles is known, or as
concentration standards, where the number, amount, or concentration of the particles is
known), or may serve as markers (e.g., where the particles bind or adhere to particular cells
or types of cells, to particular cell markers or cellular compartments, or where the particles
bind to all cells in a sample).
     1002411     For example, a biological sample may be measured or analyzed following
processing which may separate one or more types of cells from another cell type or types.
Such separation may be accomplished by gravity (e.g., sedimentation); centrifugation;
filtration; contact with a substrate (e.g., a surface, such as a wall or a bead, containing
antibodies, lectins, or other components which may bind or adhere to one cell type in
preference to another cell type); or other means. Separation may be aided or accomplished
by alteration of a cell type or types. For example, a solution may be added to a biological
sample, such as a blood sample, which causes some or all cells in the sample to swell. Where
one type of cell swells faster than another type or types of cell, cell types may be
differentiated by observing or measuring the sample following addition of the solution. Such
observations and measurements may be made at a time, or at multiple times, selected so as to
accentuate the differences in response (e.g., size, volume, internal concentration, or other
                                                  -54
14606381_1

property affected by such swelling) and so to increase the sensitivity and accuracy of the
observations and measurements. In some instances, a type or types of cells may burst in
response to such swelling, allowing for improved observations and measurements of the
remaining cell type or types in the sample.
     1002421     Observation, measurement and analysis of a biological sample by cytometry
may include photometric measurements, for example, using a photodiode, a photomultiplier,
a laser diode, a spectrophotometer, a charge-coupled device, a camera, a microscope, or other
means or device. Cytometry may include preparing and analyzing images of cells in a
biological sample (e.g., two-dimensional images), where the cells are labeled (e.g., with
fluorescent, chemiluminescent, enzymatic, or other labels) and plated (e.g., allowed to settle
on a substrate) and imaged by a camera. The camera may include a lens, and may be attached
to or used in conjunction with a microscope. Cells may be identified in the two-dimensional
images by their attached labels (e.g., from light emitted by the labels).
     1002431     An image of cells prepared and analyzed by a cytometer as disclosed herein
may include no cells, one cell, or multiple cells. A cell or cell in an image of a cytometer, as
disclosed herein, may be labeled, as disclosed above. A cell or cell in an image of a
cytometer, as disclosed herein, may be labeled, as disclosed above, effective to identify the
image, and the subject from whom the sample was taken.
     1002441     In some embodiments, the assay system is configured to perform cytometry
assays. Cytometry assays are typically used to optically, electrically, or acoustically measure
characteristics of individual cells. For the purposes of this disclosure, "cells" may encompass
non-cellular samples that are generally of similar sizes to individual cells, including but not
limited to vesicles (such as liposomes), small groups of cells, virions, bacteria, protozoa,
crystals, bodies formed by aggregation of lipids or proteins, and substances bound to small
particles such as beads or microspheres. Such characteristics include but are not limited to
size; shape; granularity; light scattering pattern (or optical indicatrix); whether the cell
membrane is intact; concentration, morphology and spatio-temporal distribution of internal
cell contents, including but not limited to protein content, protein modifications, nucleic acid
content, nucleic acid modifications, organelle content, nucleus structure, nucleus content,
internal cell structure, contents of internal vesicles (including pH), ion concentrations, and
presence of other small molecules such as steroids or drugs; and cell surface (both cellular
membrane and cell wall) markers including proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and modifications
thereof. By using appropriate dyes, stains, or other labeling molecules either in pure form,
                                                -55
14606381_1

conjugated with other molecules or immobilized in, or bound to nano- or micro-particles,
cytometry may be used to determine the presence, quantity, or modifications of specific
proteins, nucleic acids, lipids, carbohydrates, or other molecules. Properties that may be
measured by cytometry also include measures of cellular function or activity, including but
not limited to phagocytosis, antigen presentation, cytokine secretion, changes in expression of
internal and surface molecules, binding to other molecules or cells or substrates, active
transport of small molecules, mitosis or meiosis; protein translation, gene transcription, DNA
replication, DNA repair, protein secretion, apoptosis, chemotaxis, mobility, adhesion,
antioxidizing activity, RNAi, protein or nucleic acid degradation, drug responses,
infectiousness, and the activity of specific pathways or enzymes. Cytometry may also be used
to determine information about a population of cells, including but not limited to cell counts,
percent of total population, and variation in the sample population for any of the
characteristics described above. The assays described herein may be used to measure one or
more of the above characteristics for each cell, which may be advantageous to determine
correlations or other relationships between different characteristics. The assays described
herein may also be used to independently measure multiple populations of cells, for example
by labeling a mixed cell population with antibodies specific for different cell lines. A
microscopy module may permit the performance of histology, pathology, or morphological
analysis with the device, and also facilitates the evaluation of objects based on both physical
and chemical characteristics. Tissues can be homogenized, washed, deposited on a cuvette or
slide, dried, stained (such as with antibodies), incubated and then imaged. When combined
with the data transmission technologies described elsewhere herein, these innovations
facilitate the transmission of images from a CMOS/CDD or similar detector to, e.g., a
licensed pathologist for review, which is not possible with traditional devices that only
perform flow cytometry. The cytometer can measure surface antigens as well as cell
morphology; surface antigens enable more sensitive and specific tesing compared to
traditional hematology laboratory devices. The interpretation of cellular assays may be
automated by gating of one or more measurements; the gating thresholds may be set by an
expert or learned based on statistical methods from training data; gating rules can be specific
for individual subjects or populations of subjects.
     1002451     In some embodiments, the incorporation of a cytometer module into a point of
service device provides the measurement of cellular attributes typically measured by common
laboratory devices and laboratories for interpretation and review by classically-trained
                                               -56
14606381_1

medical personnel, improving the speed or quality of clinical decision-making. A point of
service device may, therefore, be configured for cytometric analysis.
     Example 1
     100246]     A sample of cells containing blood leukocytes including natural killer cells
and neutrophils was obtained. The sample was treated with a fluorescently labeled identity
binder (anti-CD 16 binder), which binds to both natural killer cells and neutrophils. The
sample was also treated with a nuclear dye (DRAQ5*). The sample was imaged by
fluorescence microscopy and dark field microscopy. The level of fluorescence and light side
scatter of different cells in the sample was recorded and analyzed. Segmented images
containing the anti-CD16 binder signal provided quantitative information on the fluorescence
intensity of each cell (corresponding to the CD16 expression level), and also the size of each
cell. The dark field image provided quantitative information on the scatter properties of each
cell. Images containing the DNA dye signal were segmented to determine the fluorescent
intensity, size, and shape of the nucleus.
     100247]     As shown in Figure 1A, two major groupings cells were identified based on
the measurement of CD 16 fluorescence and light scatter of the different cells. The group of
cells with bright / high CD16 fluorescence signal and high scatter (Figure 1A, right circle) are
neutrophils. The group of cells with intermediate CD16 fluorescence signal and low scatter
(Figure 1A, left circle) are natural killer cells. While the measurement of fluorescence and
light scatter of the different cells provides enough information to classify most cells in the
sample as either natural killer cells or neutrophils, for some cells, measurement of these
attributes does not provide enough information to classify the cells with a high degree of
accuracy. For example, the measurement of fluorescence and light scatter of cells does not
provide enough information to accurately classify the small group of cells in the smallest
circle in Figure 1A (i.e. the middle circle). In order to identify whether the cells in the
smallest circle were natural killer cells or neutrophils, images of the nuclear (DRAQ5*) and
total cell (anti-CD16) staining of these were examined. Quantitative measurements of the
area of the nucleus and the total cell volume of the cells were obtained, and the ratio of
nuclear area to total cell area was determined. As shown in Figure IB, there is a clear
difference in the ratio of nuclear area to total cell area between natural killer cells ("NK") and
neutrophils ("Neu"). Thus, the use of quantitative microscopy to examine multiple attributes
of cells in the sample was used to allow for unambiguous classification of cells. Figure IC
shows images of natural killer cells from the smallest circle in Figure 1A. All images have
                                                 -57
14606381_1

the same length scale. The images on the left are cells stained for total cell area (anti-CD16),
and the images on the right are the same cells with just nuclear staining (DRAQ5*). The
images on the top and bottom row are different examples of the natural killer cells. Figure
ID shows images of neutrophils from the smallest circle in Figure 1A. All images have the
same length scale. The images on the left are cells stained for total cell area, and the images
on the right are the same cells with just nuclear staining. The images on the top and bottom
row are different examples of the natural killer cells.
     1002481     In addition, the nucleus of a neutrophil has a distinctive multi-lobed shape,
whereas the nucleus of a natural killer cell (and other lymphocytes) is round, even, and
smooth. Image segmentation algorithms may be used to identify and classify cells based on
the shape of the nucleus itself. Image segmentation is discussed further in Example 7 below.
    Example 2
     100249]     A sample containing platelets was obtained. The platelets were labeled with
fluorescently conjugated anti-CD41 and anti-CD61 antibodies. Beads having a diameter of 3
pm were also added to the sample. The sample was imaged at 1Ox and 20x magnifications
(Figure 2A). The intensity of fluorescence distribution for individual platelets was measured
(from both antibodies), and determined have a Gaussian shape (Figure 2B). The measured
values of fluorescence of individual platelets was plotted, and a fit for the intensity
distribution was determined (Figure 2C). In Figure 2C, the grey line is the measured
fluorescence intensity across an individual platelet, and the black line is the fit. Parameters of
the fit, such as the mean of the Gaussian, the variance, the volume, the width, and the area of
the base, etc., can be evaluated as predictors of platelet volume. The volume of the Gaussian
and the width of the fit have been determined to correlate closely with mean platelet volume.
     100250J     For the above measurements, the 3 pm beads served as references and
fiducials for controlling variance in accurately determining the best plane of focus, and the
effect of this variance on the measurement of volume.
     100251J     In addition, platelet size estimated based on fitting a 2D model can be
calibrated to be in the normal range (Figure 3).
    Example 3
     1002521     A sample containing red blood cells ("RBCs") was obtained. The RBCs were
treated with a low concentration of a surfactant (DDAPS or SDS), causing the RBCs to
assume a sphere-like shape. The RBCs were imaged by dark field microscopy in two
different cuvettes: (A) a cuvette that allowed only pure epi-illumination (Figure 4A); and (B)
                                                 -58
14606381_1

a cuvette that allowed a mixture of both epi and trans-illumination (Figure 4B). The RBCs
were much more visible in the cuvette that allowed a mixture of both epi and trans
illumination over the cuvette that allowed only pure epi-illumination (Figure 4).
    Example 4
     1002531    A sample containing neutrophils was obtained. In neutrophils, the shape and
chromatin morphology of the nucleus may indicate whether it is an immature "band"
neutrophil or a mature "segmented" neutrophil. Band neutrophils are immature neutrophils
that have recently emerged from the bone marrow. An increase in the proportion of band
neutrophils may indicate an ongoing infection or inflammation.
     1002541    The sample was mixed with a fluorescently labeled anti-CD16 antibody,
which recognizes CD 16, a cell surface receptor on neutrophils. The sample was also stained
with a fluorescent nuclear dye. The sample was imaged by fluorescence microscopy, to
obtain both nuclear staining and CD16 staining data from the cells. Band neutrophils
generally have similar expression levels of CD 16 as mature segmented neutrophils, and thus
cannot be distinguished by virtue of fluorescence intensity from CD 16 staining alone.
     1002551    Image analysis including image segmentation is used to recognize nuclear
staining and morphologies of band neutrophils and segmented neutrophils, thereby allowing
classification of the cells. The size, shape, and fluorescence intensity of the nucleus of cells
are examined. In addition, the nuclei are analyzed to determine the number of lobes (peaks in
intensity within the nuclear area), distance between the lobes of the nucleus, and the changes
in curvature (second derivative) of the nuclear outline. Figure 5A shows representative
images of band neutrophils. In these images, the nucleus appears as a light grey, and the cell
cytoplasm appears as a darker grey. As neutrophils differentiate through the myeloid lineage,
they develop a characteristic "U" shaped nucleus prior to reaching full maturity. Figure 5B
shows representative images of segmented neutrophils. In these images, the nucleus appears
as a light grey, and the cell cytoplasm appears as a darker grey. The nuclei of segmented
neutrophils have multiple segments / lobes (typically about 3-5). Thus, this analysis supports
identification and quantification of different subpopulations of neutrophils in the blood.
Image segmentation is discussed further in Example 7 below.
    Example 5
     100256]    A sample of cells from a subject with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is
obtained. The objective is to quantify the extent of CD5 expression on B-cells from the
subject. Anti-CD20 antibodies are selected as the binder for B-cells. Anti-CD20 antibodies
labeled with a first colored fluorophore are mixed with the sample. After an appropriate
                                               -59
14606381_1

incubation time, the sample is washed and the unbound anti-CD20 antibodies are removed.
The sample is exposed to a light source capable of exciting the first fluorophore, and
fluorescent signal is measured using a spectrophotometer. Based on the fluorescent signal,
the approximate concentration of B-cells in the sample is determined. The determined
approximate concentration of B-cells is, in fact, within 1.5 fold of the true concentration of B
cells in the sample.
     100257]     Based on the approximate concentration of B-cells in the sample, an
appropriate amount of anti-CD5 binder is added to the sample so that a proportional
relationship between CD5 expression and CD5 fluorescence is maintained. The anti-CD5
binder is coupled to a second fluorophore, which has a different peak excitation wavelength
than the first fluorophore (attached to the anti-CD20 binder). The anti-CD5 antibody is
added to the sample, and then individual cells of the sample are exposed to a light source
capable of exciting the second fluorophore, and fluorescent signal from individual cells is
measured. Based on the fluorescent signal from cells, the average amount of CD5 in B-cells
in the sample is determined.
     1002581     Although this example is described in the context of CD5, it should be
understood that this concept of obtaining an approximate count to guide an addition of a
desired amount of material for use in a subsequent step, is not limited to CD5 and use of this
concept with other types of cells, analytes, or objects is not excluded.
     Example 6
     100259]     Blood cells may be imaged, identified, and quantified according to the
methods disclosed herein. For example, two-dimensional images of cells in a biological
sample, where the cells are labeled (e.g., with fluorescent, chemiluminescent, enzymatic, or
other labels) and plated (e.g., allowed to settle on a substrate) and imaged by a camera, may
be prepared and analyzed as described in the present example. The camera may include a
lens, and may be attached to or used in conjunction with a microscope. Cells may be
identified in the two-dimensional images by their attached labels (e.g., from light emitted by
the labels).
     100260]     80 microliters of whole blood obtained from a fingerstick was loaded into a
capped sample container preloaded with 2 mg/ml EDTA. In this instance an enclosed sample
container was used (with a removable or pierceable cap); it will be understood that any
suitable vessel for holding such a small volume sample may be used, including, but not
limited to, a capped vessel or an uncapped vessel. The sample container was centrifuged at
                                                -60
14606381_1

1200 x g for 5 minutes, to separate the blood cells from the blood plasma. Centrifugation of
the sample container resulted in the separation of the blood sample in the sample container
into two major components (from top of the sample container to the bottom): 1) blood plasma
and 2) packed blood cells. This process ensures that no droplets of blood remain isolated, but
coalesce with the main body of the liquid. In addition, this process separates the cells from
elements of the plasma thus reducing metabolism and allowing for longer storage of the
sample.
     100261]     The centrifuged sample container was loaded into a cartridge containing
multiple fluidically isolated reagents, tips, and a cytometry cuvette. The cartridge contained
all the reagents required for the assay. The cartridge was loaded into a device equipped with
at least a centrifuge, a pipette and a platform to load the cuvette. The pipette in the device has
a plurality of nozzles, some nozzles being of a different size than some other nozzles.
     100262]     Inside the device, a nozzle on the pipette was lowered on a cuvette carrier tool
causing it to engage a corresponding hole on the carrier tool. This tool was subsequently
moved to the cartridge and lowered on the cytometer cuvette. Pins on the tool were then able
to engage corresponding holes on the cuvette and pick it up. The cuvette was transferred to a
loading station elsewhere in the device.
     100263]     Next, inside the device, a larger nozzle of the pipette was lowered into the
cartridge to engage a pipette tip stored in the cartridge. The pipette and tip together were then
used to mix the cells and plasma in the sample container by positioning the pipette tip within
the sample in the sample container and repeatedly aspirating material into and dispensing
material from the tip. Once the cells were resuspended in the plasma so that the whole blood
sample was thoroughly mixed, 5 microliters of the mixed whole blood was aspirated to
provide an aliquot for measurements of properties of the blood sample. This 5 microliter
aliquot was used for measurements directed to the red blood cells and platelets in the sample.
As discussed below, a portion of the sample remaining after removal of this 5 microliter
aliquot was used for measurements directed at white blood cells in the sample.
     100264]     The 5 microliters of whole blood was dispensed into a vessel containing a
mixture of phosphate buffered saline and 2% by weight of bovine serum albumin, to dilute
the whole blood twenty-fold (resulting in 100 microliters of diluted sample). After mixing
vigorously, 5 microliters of this sample was transferred to another vessel containing a
cocktail of labeling antibody reagents: anti-CD235a conjugated to Alexa Fluor* 647
                                                -61
14606381_1

(AF647), anti-CD41 and anti-CD61 conjugated to phycoerythrin (PE). The mixture was
incubated for 5 minutes. Subsequently, 10 microliters of this mixture was mixed with 90
microliters of a buffer containing a zwitterionic surfactant at <0.10% by weight. The surfactant
molecules modify bending properties of the red cell membrane such that all cells assume a
stable spherical shape. This transformation is isovolumetric as the buffer used is isotonic with
cytoplasm; thus no osmotically driven exchange of fluid can occur across the cell membrane.
After incubating this for another 2 minutes, 30 microliters of this solution was mixed with a
solution containing glutaraldehyde, a fixative and non-fluorescent beads of 10 micron (pim)
diameter. The mixture had a final concentration of 0.1% glutaraldehyde and 1000 beads per
microliter. Glutaraldehyde rapidly fixes cells thus preventing cell lysis and other active
biological processes.
     100265]     In this non-limiting example, the pipette then engaged a tip in the cartridge,
aspirated 7 pL of the above mixture of and loaded the 7 pL into a channel within the cuvette
placed on a platform with the carrier tool. After the mixture was loaded in into cuvette, the
pipette aspirated 10 pL of mineral oil from a vessel in the cartridge, and placed a drop of
mineral oil on both open ends of the loaded channel of the cuvette. Hexadecane was added to
the ends of the open channel to prevent evaporation of liquid from the loaded cuvette channel
(mineral oil would also work). Next, the device-level sample handling apparatus engaged the
cuvette carrier / cuvette combination, and transported the cuvette carrier / cuvette
combination from the module containing the cartridge to the cytometry module of the device.
At the cytometry module, the device-level sample handling apparatus placed the cuvette
carrier / cuvette combination on the microscopy stage of the cytometry module. The time
required for these operations, in addition to a 2 minute wait time allowed the swelled cells to
settle to the floor of the cuvette prior to imaging.
     100266]     After the cuvette carrier/cuvette was placed on the microscopy stage, the stage
was moved to pre-determined location so that the optical system of the cytometer could view
one end of the channel containing the sample. At this location, the optical system relayed
images of the sample acquired with dark field illumination from a ringlight. These images
coupled with actuation of the optical system on an axis perpendicular to the plane of the
cuvette were used to find the plane of best focus. Once focused, the optical system was used
to acquire fluorescence images of the sample at different wavelengths, commensurate with
the fluorophores that were being used. For example, to visualize red blood cells that had been
labeled with anti-CD235 conjugated to Alexa Fluor* 647, a red (630 nm wavelength) light
                                                -62
14606381_1

source was used to excite the sample and wavelengths between 650nm and 700nm were used
to image the sample. A combination of a polychroic mirror and a bandpass emission filter
was used to filter out unwanted wavelengths from the optical signal. Since the cells had
settled on the floor of the cuvette, images at a single plane of focus were sufficient to
visualize all cells in the region.
     100267]     Data from the images was processed by a controller associated with the
sample processing device. The image processing algorithms employed here utilized
fluorescence images of cells to detect them using a combination of adaptive thresholding and
edge detection. Based on local intensity and intensity gradients, regions of interest (Rol) were
created around each cell. Using dark field images, beads in the sample were also identified
and RoIs were created around the beads. All the RoIs in each field of view were enumerated
and their intensity in each image of that field of view were calculated. The information output
by the image processing algorithm consisted of shape or morphometric measurements and
fluorescence and dark field intensities for each Rol. This information was analyzed using
statistical methods to classify each object as either a red blood cell (positive for CD235a, but
negative for CD41/CD61), a platelet (positive for CD41/CD61 and negative CD235a) or a
bead. The shape descriptors such as perimeter, diameter and circularity were used to calculate
the volume of each red blood cell and platelet. Since the beads were added at a known
concentration, the average ratio of beads to cells over the whole channel was used to calculate
cell concentration in terms of cells/microliter. Based on the steps performed for processing
the sample, this concentration was corrected for dilution to arrive at concentration of cells in
the original whole blood sample. The following quantities were calculated from a sample: 1)
number of red blood cells in the cuvette; 2) average volume of red blood cells in the cuvette;
3) red blood cell distribution width (RDW) of red blood cells in the cuvette; 4) number of
platelets in the cuvette; and 5) average volume of platelets in the cuvette. Based on these
calculations, the following was calculated for the original blood sample.
     Measured Value                                                  Result      Exemplary
                                                                                 Range
     Concentration of red blood cells (million cells per             4.8         4-6
     microliter)
     Mean volume of red blood cells, femtoliter                      88           80-100
     red blood cell distribution width (RDW) , (%)                   12           11-14.6
                                               -63
14606381_1

    Concentration of platelets (thousand cells per microliter)      254          150-400
    Mean volume of platelets, femtoliter                            10.4        7.5-11.5
    100268]     After removal of the 5 microliter aliquot used for analysis of RBC and platelet
information, the remaining 75 microliters of sample was used to analyze the white blood cell
population of the whole blood sample. The remaining 75 microliters of whole blood had also
been mixed by repeatedly aspirating and dispensing the sample within the same the vessel by
the pipette. Approximately 40 microliters of the remaining 75 microliters of mixed whole
blood was aspirated into a pipette tip, and transferred by the pipette to a centrifuge tube in the
cartridge. The centrifuge tube containing the blood sample was engaged by the pipette, and
transferred to and deposited in a swinging bucket in a centrifuge within the module. The
centrifuge was spun to provide 1200 x g for 3 minutes, separating the blood into EDTA
containing plasma as the supernatant and packed cells in the pellet.
    100269]     After centrifugation, the centrifuge tube was removed from the centrifuge and
returned to the cartridge. The plasma supernatant was removed by the pipette and transferred
to a separate reaction vessel in the cartridge. From a reagent vessel in the cartridge, 16
microliters of resuspension buffer was aspirated by the pipette, and added to the cell pellet in
the centrifuge tube. The pipette then resuspended the cell pellet in the resuspension buffer by
repeatedly aspirating and dispensing the mixture in the centrifuge tube. Next, the pipette
aspirated 21 microliters of the resuspended whole blood and added it to another vessel
containing 2 microliters of anti CD14-Pacific BlueTM and DRAQ5*, mixed, and incubated for
2 minutes. Twenty microliters of this mixture was then added to 80 microliters of a lysis
buffer. The lysis buffer was a solution including saponin (a gentle surfactant; other
surfactants which may be used include anionic, cationic, zwitterionic, and non-ionic
surfactant compounds, e.g., as discussed above) and paraformaldehyde (a fixative; other
fixatives which may be used include formaldehyde, glutaraldehyde, and other cross-linking
agents). The detergent causes a large number of holes to be formed in the membranes of cells.
Red blood cells, due to their unique membrane properties, are particularly susceptible to this
hole formation and lyse completely, their contents leaking out into the liquid around. The
presence of the fixative prevents unintentional lysis of the white blood cells. Platelets also
remain unlysed. The purpose of this step is to remove intact red blood cells from the mixture
as they outnumber white blood cells by about 1000:1. Platelets do not interfere with imaging
                                               -64
14606381_1

and hence are irrelevant to this process. The lysis buffer also contained 10 pM non
fluorescent beads at a known concentration.
     100270]    After a 5 minute incubation, the vessel was spun again at 1200 x g for 3
minutes. The supernatant was aspirated by a pipette tip, removing the red blood cell ghosts
and other debris, and deposited into a waste area in the cartridge. Approximately 15
microliters of liquid with packed white blood cells were present in the cell pellet.
     100271]    In order to determine a rough approximation of the number of white blood
cells present in the cell pellet, the pipette first resuspended the white blood cells in the vessel
and then aspirated the liquid for transport to and inspection by a spectrophotometer. The
white blood cell suspension was illuminated with light at a wavelength of 632 nm, which is
the excitation wavelength for Alexa Fluor* 647 dye and DRAQ5*. The light emitted by the
cell suspension was filtered by a 650 nm long pass filter and measured in the
spectrophotometer. This measurement was correlated with previously generated calibration
curve to estimate a rough concentration of white blood cells in the cell suspension. Typically,
cell concentrations ranged from about 1000 cells per microliter to about 100,000 cells per
microliter. This estimate was used to calculate an appropriate dilution factor to ensure that the
concentration of cells in the cuvette was constrained to within a two-fold range around a pre
defined target concentration. The purpose of this step was to ensure that cells are not present
at too high or too low a density on the cuvette. If the cell density is too high, the accuracy of
image processing algorithms is compromised, and if the cell density is too low, an
insufficient number of cells are sampled.
     100272]    Based on the dilution factor calculated in the above step, a diluent containing
labeled antibodies against CD45 (pan-leukocyte marker), CD16 (neutrophil marker) and
CD123 (basophil marker) was added to the cell suspension and mixed.
     100273]    Once the cuvette in complex with cuvette carrier was placed on the cuvette
carrier block, 10 microliters of the mixture of white blood cells resuspended in cytometry
buffer was loaded into each of two channels in the cuvette. After the mixture was loaded into
channels of the cuvette, the pipette aspirated 10 pl of hexadecane from a vessel in the
cartridge, and placed a drop of mineral oil on both open ends of both channels in the cuvette
loaded with white blood cells.
     100274]    Next, the device-level sample handling apparatus engaged the cuvette carrier /
cuvette combination, and transported the cuvette carrier / cuvette combination from the
module containing the cartridge to the cytometry module of the device. At the cytometry
module, the device-level sample handling apparatus placed the cuvette carrier / cuvette
                                                  -65
14606381_1

combination on the microscopy stage of the cytometry module. After the cuvette carrier /
cuvette was placed on the microscopy stage, the two channels of the cuvette containing white
blood cells were imaged as described above for the RBC / platelet mixture.
     100275]     Dark field images of the white blood cells were used to count the numbers of
cells in a field (as shown in Fig. 9A). Cell surface markers were used to determine the cell
type of individual white blood cells in an image; for example, CD14 marks monocytes;
CD123 marks basophils; CD16 marks neutrophils; and CD45-AF647 were used to mark all
leukocytes (Figs. 9B-9E). The nuclear stain DRAQ5* was used to mark cell nuclei, and so to
differentiate nucleated cells (such as white blood cells) from mature red blood cells, which
have no nucleus (Fig. 9F).
     100276]     The image processing algorithms employed here utilized fluorescence images
of cells to detect them using a combination of adaptive thresholding and edge detection.
Based on local intensity and intensity gradients, boundaries of regions of interest (Rol) were
created around each cell. Using dark field images, beads in the sample were also identified
and Rol boundaries were created around the beads. All the RoIs in each field of view were
enumerated and their intensity in each image of that field of view were calculated. The
information output by the image processing algorithm consisted of shape or morphometric
measurements and fluorescence and dark field intensities for each Rol. This information was
analyzed using statistical methods to classify each object as a lymphocyte, monocyte,
basophil, eosinophil, neutrophil or a bead. Based on enumeration of cells of different types,
the corresponding bead count and the dilution ratio implemented during sample processing,
an absolute concentration of cells per microliter of original whole blood was calculated. This
was calculated for all white blood cells and each subtype, and reported as both absolute
concentration (cells per microliter) and proportion (%).
     100277]     Examples of images and plots of results of such measurements are presented
in Figs. 9, 10, and 11.
     100278]     Fig. 9 shows representative images of blood cells from a sample of whole
blood; these images were taken using different imaging techniques and dyes. The image
shown in Fig. 9A was taken of cells from whole blood using dark-field illumination. The
image shown in Fig. 9B was taken of cells from whole blood showing fluorescence from anti
CD14 antibodies labeled with Pacific Blue dye; the fluorescent cells are monocytes. The
image shown in Fig. 9C was taken of cells from whole blood showing fluorescence from anti
CD123 antibodies labeled with PECy5 dye; the fluorescent cells are basophils. The image
                                              -66
14606381_1

shown in Fig. 9D was taken of cells from whole blood showing fluorescence from anti-CD16
antibodies labeled with PE dye; the fluorescent cells are neutrophils. The image shown in Fig.
9E was taken of cells from whole blood showing fluorescence from anti-CD45 antibodies
labeled with AF647 dye; all leukocytes fluoresce under these conditions. The image shown in
Fig. 9F was taken of cells from whole blood dyed with DRAQ5* to stain cell nuclei. Thus,
leukocytes and platelets are stained and fluoresce under these conditions, but red blood cells
(lacking nuclei) are not stained and do not fluoresce.
    100279]      Fig. 10 shows a representative composite image of cell-types in whole blood
from images acquired according to the methods disclosed herein. Images of a monocyte
(labeled and seen in the upper left quadrant of the figure, with a reddish center surrounded by
a blue-purple ring), a lymphocyte (labeled and seen in the center of the figure, with a bright
red center surrounded by a dimmer red ring), an eosinophil (labeled and seen in the lower left
quadrant of the figure, with a green center surrounded by a red border), and a neutrophil
(labeled and seen in the lower right quadrant of the figure, with a green center surrounded by
a yellow and green border) are shown in the figure.
    1002801      It is of interest to identify and quantify various cell types found in such blood
samples. There may be multiple ways to approach such a classification process, which, in
some embodiments, may be considered as being a statistical problem for multi-dimensional
classification. It will be understood that a wide variety of methods are available in the field to
solve these types of classification problems. A particular embodiment of such an analysis is
provided below.
    1002811      Fig. 11 shows plots of various cell types identified and quantified by the
cytometric assays described in this example. Fig. 11 A shows a plot of spots (cells) by
intensity of the marker FL-17 (anti-CD14 antibody labeled with pacific blue dye) versus
intensity of FL-9 (dark field scatter signal) to identify monocytes. Fig. 11 B shows a plot of
spots (cells) by intensity of the marker FL-19 (anti-CD123 antibody labeled with PE-CY5
dye) versus intensity of the marker FL- 15 (anti-CD 16 labeled with PE dye) to identify
basophils. Fig. 1 IC shows a plot of spots (cells) by intensity of the marker FL-15 (anti-CD16
labeled with PE dye) versus intensity of the marker FL-Il (anti-CD45 antibody labeled with
AF647 dye) to identify lymphocytes. Fig. I1D shows a plot of spots (cells) by intensity of the
marker FL-15 (anti-CD 16 labeled with PE dye) versus intensity of FL-9 (dark field scatter
signal) to identify neutrophils and eosinophils.
                                                  -67
14606381_1

     1002821    The initial identification of monocytes (9.6%, as shown in Fig. 11 A) is used to
guide the subsequent identification of basophils (0.68%, as shown in Fig. 11B). The
identification of monocytes and basophils as shown in Figs. 11 A and 11 B is used to guide the
subsequent identification of neutrophils and eosinophils (68% neutrophils, 3.2% eosinophils,
of the WBCs shown in Fig. 1 ID). Finally, lymphocytes are identified as shown in Fig. 1 IC
(93% of the WBCs plotted in Fig. 1 IC, corresponding to 18% of the cells in the original
sample).
     1002831    The present methods correlate well with other methods. Counts of white
blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets were made with samples of EDTA-anti coagulated
whole blood. The white blood cells were further counted to determine the numbers of
neutrophils, monocytes, and lymphocytes in the sample. In the measurements shown in Fig.
12, EDTA-anti coagulated whole blood samples were split into two, and one part of the
samples were run on the system disclosed herein, using the methods disclosed herein. The
other part of the samples was run on an Abbott CELL-DYN Ruby System (Abbott
Diagnostics, Lake Forest, IL, USA), a commercial multi-parameter automated hematology
analyzer. A comparison of the results obtained with both methods is shown in Fig. 12.
     1002841    As shown in Figs. 12A-12C, the numbers of white blood cells ("WBCs", Fig.
12A), red blood cells ("RBCs", Fig. 12B) and platelets (Fig. 12C) measured by the present
methods correlate well with the numbers of WBCs, RBCs, and platelets measured by other
methods in corresponding aliquots of the same samples as were analyzed by the present
methods. As shown in Figs. 12D-12F, the numbers of neutrophils, monocytes, and
lymphocytes measured by either method were very similar, and correlated well with each
other. In embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, blood samples may be diluted to
reduce or eliminate red blood cell overlap. For example, samples in which red blood cell
counts were obtained were typically diluted by about 400-fold to about 1000-fold so that the
red blood cells would be sufficiently separated for accurate counting. Where advantageous or
required, such dilutions were performed by sequential dilution (e.g., where a sample or
portion thereof was diluted a first time to provide a first diluted sample, and that first diluted
sample (or portion thereof) was further diluted one, two, or more times, as needed to provide
the desired dilution). As discussed above, beads may be incorporated into such diluted
samples to provide an independent measure of the dilution: since the number of beads added
is known, a count of the number or concentration of beads in the final (diluted) sample may
be used to calculate the actual amount of dilution that was obtained. Typically, a ratio of
                                               -68
14606381_1

about 5-7 RBCs per bead provides a desirable ratio of RBCs to beads. Optionally, the
solution may also have a component that prevents the beads for adhering to each other. In one
non-limiting example, the use of a known number or concentration of reference bodies such
as beads or other structures can be particularly useful when they are added to undiluted
sample prior to dilution step, especially in serial dilution steps used to create 200-fold or
higher dilutions. As long as the sample and beads are well mixed before each aspiration step,
this reduces the impact of inaccuracies in dilution steps and makes the method insensitive to
dispense errors in these multiple dilution steps. Optionally, some embodiment may add the
reference bodies after the first dilution step of a multiple step dilution process. Optionally,
some embodiment may add the reference bodies after the second dilution step of a multiple
step dilution process.
     1002851    In aspects of the term as used herein, the term "cytometry" refers to
observations, analysis, methods, and results regarding cells of a biological sample, where the
cells are substantially at rest in a fluid or on a substrate. Cells detected and analyzed by
cytometry may be detected and measured by any optical, electrical or acoustic detector.
Cytometry may include preparing and analyzing images of cells in or from a biological
sample (e.g., two-dimensional images). The cells may be labeled (e.g., with fluorescent,
chemiluminescent, enzymatic, or other labels) and plated (e.g., allowed to settle on a
substrate) and, typically, imaged by a camera. A microscope may be used for cell imaging in
cytometry; for example, cells may be imaged by a camera and a microscope, e.g., by a
camera forming an image using a microscope. An image formed by, and used for, cytometry
typically includes more than one cell.
Example 7
     100286]    This example presents a method and results of sequential segmentation of
white blood cell images from samples of blood. Other suitable methods include summing
images, including providing weighted averages of multiple images, to provide images for use
in determining cell boundaries. Nuclear staining dyes and other dyes may be used, including
labeled antibodies for binding to specific cell markers, either together or separately, to obtain
images for analysis. For example, cell size and cell boundary estimates may be obtained
using images obtained with each dye or marker separately, or some or all images may be
combined for analysis. The present methods provide related and improved methods for
estimating cell size and for determining boundaries of cells imaged by devices and systems as
disclosed herein. It will be understood that these methods are useful for the analysis of cells
imaged by other devices and systems as well.
                                                 -69
14606381_1

     100287]     Segmentation is useful for determining contours of images, e.g., for
determining contours (e.g., boundaries, such as optimal outlines) of images of objects within
a larger image containing one or more objects and (typically) background or other features as
well. Sequential segmentation is an iterative process which, when applied to images of cells
in a biological sample, may be used to provide progressively better cell contours by use of
successive procedures which result in a final, optimal (or sufficiently accurate) result. The
results presented in the present example demonstrate the use of sequential segmentation of
fluorescence images of individual white blood cells using nuclear stains to provide regions of
interest within the cells (e.g., to provide images of cell nuclei) which are used as the seed
upon which to base the sequential segmentation process for determining the outer boundaries
of the cells containing those nuclei.
     1002881     Dyes and stains useful for such images and the analysis thereof include the
dyes and markers disclosed herein, such as, e.g., DAPI, DRAQ5*, propidium iodide, or other
DNA-staining dye; PE, Pacific Blue TM, allophycocyanin (APC), Alexza Fluor*, and other
dyes.
     100289]     Segmentation was applied to WBC images obtained using fluorescence
microscopy images to find contours (e.g., optimal cell outlines) for each cell that separated
them from the image background. A cell region of interest (ROI) was defined as the region
interior to the contour, and was used to compute shape and size metrics such as area, volume,
and circularity, as well as intensity measures such as mean, median, minimum and maximum
intensity. In Fig. 15B, examples of cells (bright), background (dark), and contours (red) are
shown. The contours shown in Fig. 15B were determined by sequential segmentation as
described in this example.
     100290]     For each field of view (FoV), multiple fluorescence images were acquired
with different filters, each emphasizing different WBC types. Examples of different
fluorescent image types can be seen in Fig. 13A-E); Fig. 13A is a dark-field image, Fig. 13B
is from labeled anti-CD45 antibodies, Fig. 13C imaged with nuclear stain DRAQ5*, Fig. 13D
is from labeled anti-CD 16 antibodies, and Fig. 13E is from labeled anti-CD 123 antibodies.
     100291]     Figure 13 shows white blood cell (WBC) images obtained using microscopy,
for use in performing sequential segmentation analysis to determine contours for each cell
and to thus differentiate the cell images from the background images. Fig. 13A is a dark field
image; Fig. 13B is a fluorescence image showing cell labelling by anti-CD45 antibodies; Fig.
13C is a fluorescence image cells labelling by the nuclear stain DRAQ5*; Fig. 13D is a
                                               -70
14606381_1

fluorescence image showing cell labelling by anti-CD16 antibodies; and Fig. 13E is a
fluorescence image showing cell labelling by anti-CD123 antibodies.
     100292]     The assumption of the segmentation method was that the desired cell contour
for a given nucleus could be found in the image in which the cell area was the largest. The
method consisted of the following steps:
     1) Segmentation of cell nuclei using the image stained with DRAQ5*.
    2) For each acquired image: grow cell regions using watershed segmentation, initialized
    with the segmented cell nuclei.
    3) For each nucleus: find the cell ROI with the largest area across all images and register
    that as the final segmentation for that cell.
     100293]     Cell nuclei were detected using the image stained with DRAQ5*. ROIs were
found using adaptive thresholding, where a pixel's intensity was set as foreground if its
intensity was a certain amount higher than the mean intensity in the pixel neighborhood.
Pixel intensity varied across images; for example, pixel intensity decreased with distance
from local maximal intensity values. The rate of change in such decrease of pixel intensity
(with increasing distance from local maxima) was used to determine boundaries, or edges, of
the imaged objects. Sizes of imaged objects (e.g., cell nuclei when DRAQ* or other nuclear
stain was used) were then calculated using the boundaries. An ROI was classified as a
nucleus if it was within an allowable size range. Fig. 14C shows an image stained with
DRAQ5*, showing nuclei contours identified in this way in blue.
     100294]     Each nucleus ROI was assumed to be in the interior of a cell ROI. Cell
segmentation in an image was performed by growing the regions around the already
segmented nucleus ROIs. The stopping criteria can be based on gradient magnitude, intensity
information, or other factors or a combination of factors. Examples of segmentation
techniques that can be used are active contours, geodesic active contours, and watershed. The
watershed algorithm was used, and the ROI growing was stopped either when it reached a
maximum in the intensity gradient magnitude, a significant intensity decrease, or when it
encountered a neighboring ROI.
     100295]     The watershed segmentation was performed on each image acquired for the
FoV, and the cell ROIs were stored. For each nucleus in the image the cell ROI areas were
compared across all images, and the ROI with the largest area was recorded as the final cell
ROI for that nucleus. All cell ROIs with maximum area were then combined into a final
WBC segmentation. An example of a final sequential WBC segmentation is shown in Fig.
15B. This method determines cell regions more accurately than do other methods, e.g., more
                                               -71
14606381_1

accurately finds cell regions than does a one-pass segmentation of a weighted average of
fluorescence images. The contours shown in Fig. 15A were determined by watershed
segmentation performed once on the composite cell images, while the contours shown in Fig.
15B were determined by sequential WBC segmentation as described herein.
     100296]     Fig. 14 shows the images in Fig. 13 with segmentation results. Nucleus ROIs
are plotted using blue contours and cell ROIs have red contours. Fig. 14A is a dark-field
image with nuclei ROIs overlaid in blue and the generated cell segmentation in red, Fig. 14B
is from labeled anti-CD45 antibodies with nuclei ROIs overlaid in blue and the resulting cell
segmentation in red, Fig. 14C imaged with nuclear stain DRAQ5* with segmented nuclei
ROIs in blue, Fig. 14D is from labeled anti-CD 16 antibodies with nuclei ROIs in blue and the
resulting cell segmentation in red, and Fig. 14E is from labeled anti-CD123 antibodies with
nuclei ROIs overlaid in blue and the resulting cell segmentation in red.
     100297]     Figure 14 shows white blood cells (WBCs) images obtained using
microscopy, as in Fig. 13, for performing sequential segmentation analysis to determine
external (e.g., cell membrane) and internal (e.g., nucleus) contours for each cell and to thus
identify the cell nucleus as well as to differentiate the cell ROIs from the background regions.
The lines within the cell images identify the boundaries of the WBC nucleus for each cell as
determined by sequential segmentation analysis. Fig. 14A is a dark field image; Fig. 14B is a
fluorescence image showing cell labelling by anti-CD45 antibodies; Fig. 14C is a
fluorescence image cells labelling by the nuclear stain DRAQ5*; Fig. 14D is a fluorescence
image showing cell labelling by anti-CD16 antibodies; and Fig. 14E is a fluorescence image
showing cell labelling by anti-CD123 antibodies.
     100298]     Another approach to WBC segmentation was to perform a weighted average
of all the fluorescent and the dark-field image and perform watershed segmentation once on
that composite image. This method may create a bias towards cells that had more staining
across the images. Fig. 15A shows a composite image. ROIs from watershed segmentation
performed once on the composite image are show in red contours. Fig. 15B shows a
composite image with the described sequential WBC segmentation plotted with red contours.
The main contributors to the final segmentation were from Fig. 14B and Fig. 14D in this
case.
     100299]     Figure 15 shows composite images of white blood cells (WBCs) shown in
Figs. 13 and 14. Fig. 15A is a composite image of the cells shown in Figs. 13 and 14, with
cell contours obtained by watershed segmentation performed once. Fig. 15B is a the result of
sequential segmentation as described herein applied to the composite image of the cells
                                                -72
14606381_1

shown in Figs. 13 and 14, showing cell contours obtained by that analysis. The sequential
segmentation analysis illustrated in Fig. 15B appears to better identify cell contours than does
the watershed segmentation performed once as shown in Fig. 15A.
Optical Systems
     1003001    Referring now to Figure 6A and 6B, embodiments of an optical system
suitable for use herein will now be described. Although these embodiments of the system are
described in the context of being able to perform cytometry, it should also be understood that
embodiments of the system may also have uses and capabilities beyond cytometry. By way of
example and not limitation, the imaging and image processing capabilities of the systems
disclosed herein may be used for many applications, including applications outside of
cytometry. Since images of the sample being analyzed are captured, and image information is
typically linked or associated in the system to quantitative measurements, one can further
analyze the images associated with the quantitative information to gather clinical information
in the images that would otherwise be unreported.
     1003011    A sample to be analyzed, e.g., by cytometry or other optical or imaging means,
may be held in a sample holder for analysis. For example, a cuvette may serve as such a
sample holder. The embodiment shown in Figure 6A shows a perspective view of a cuvette
600 that has a plurality of openings 602 for receiving a sample or portion thereof for analysis.
For example, an opening 602 may be used as an entry port to provide a sample, such as a
fluid sample, to a channel, conduit, or chamber (e.g., a sample chamber) for analysis. The
horizontal cross-sectional shape of the embodiment of Figure 6A is a rectangular horizontal
cross-sectional shape. Although the system is described in the context of a cuvette, it should
be understood that other sample holding devices may also be used in place of or in
combination with the cuvette 600.
     1003021    As seen in the embodiment of Figure 6A, the openings 602 may allow for a
sample handling system (not shown) or other delivery system to deposit sample into the
opening 602 which may be connected with, and may lead to, an analysis area 608 in the
cuvette where the sample can be analyzed. In one non-limiting example, an analysis area 608
may be a chamber. In another non-limiting example, an analysis area 608 may be a channel.
In embodiments, an analysis area 608 that is configured as a channel may connect two entry
ports 602. In a still further non-limiting example, an analysis area 608 may be a channel
wherein the sample is held in a non-flowing manner. In any of the embodiments herein, the
system can hold the samples in a non-flowing manner during analysis. Optionally, some
                                              -73
14606381_1

alternative embodiments may be configured to enable sample flow through the analysis area
before, during, or after analysis. In some embodiments, after analysis, the sample is extracted
from the cuvette 600 and then delivered to another station (in a system having multiple
stations) for further processing or for further processing or analysis. Some embodiments may
use gate(s) in the system to control sample flow.
     1003031    Figure 6A shows that, in some embodiments of a cuvette 600, a cuvette 600
may have a plurality of openings 602. Sample may be added to the sample holder via entry
ports 602. An opening 602 may be operably connected with (e.g., in fluid continuity with) an
analysis area 608. An analysis area 608 may be operably connected with (e.g., in fluid
continuity with) a plurality of openings 602. It will be understood that some embodiments
may have more, or may have fewer, openings 602 in the cuvette 600. Some embodiments
may link certain openings 602 such that selected pairs or other sets of openings 602 can
access the same channel (e.g., analysis area 608 that is configured as a channel). By way of
non-limiting example, there may an opening 602 at each end of an analysis area 608.
Optionally, more than one opening 602 may be at one end of an analysis area 608.
     1003041    Embodiments of a cuvette 600 may have structures 610 that allow for a
sample handling system to engage and transport the cuvette 600. A cuvette 600 as illustrated
in Figure 6A and Figure 6B may be engaged by a sample handling system via an element
610, effective that the cuvette 600 may be transported from one location to another. An
element 610 may also be used to secure a cuvette 600 at a desired location, e.g., prior to, or
following transport to a location (such as over a detector for optical imaging and analysis), a
cuvette 600 may be held in position by an element 610 or by a tool or device which uses an
element 610 to hold a cuvette 60 in position. In one non-limiting example, the structures 610
can be openings in the cuvette 600 that allow for a pipette or other elongate member to
engage the cuvette 600 and transport it to the desired location. Optionally, in place of or in
combination with said opening(s), the structures 610 can be, or may include, a protrusion, a
hook, a magnet, a magnetizable element, a metal element, or other feature that can be used to
engage a cuvette transport device. In embodiments, force (e.g., compression, or other force)
may be applied to a cuvette 600; for example, compression may be applied to a cuvette 600 in
order to press a cuvette 600 onto a substrate or surface (e.g., a surface of a base support 620),
effective to place the cuvette 600 in effective optical contact with the surface. In
embodiments, such force (e.g., compression) may aid in providing desired optical properties,
such as providing good contact between a cuvette 600 and a base support 620, effective to
allow passage of light without significant distortion at the interface, or without significant
                                               -74
14606381_1

reflection at the interface, or other desired optical property. In embodiments, such force (e.g.,
compression) may be applied, at least in part, via a structure 610 or via multiple structures
610.
     1003051    As shown in Figure 6B (in perspective view), a cuvette 600 may have a
circular horizontal cross-sectional shape. An opening 602 (or multiple openings 602, which
may be present in similar embodiments, not shown in the figure) may allow sample handling
system or other delivery system to deposit sample into the opening 602 which may then lead
to an analysis area 608 in the cuvette where the sample can be analyzed. Non-limiting
examples of suitable analysis areas 608 include an analysis area 608 comprising a chamber,
and an analysis area comprising a channel. In embodiments, such an analysis area 608 may
be located within an annular structure such as the annular structure 604 shown in Figure 6B.
In embodiments, an opening 602 may be connected with an analysis area 608. In
embodiments, an analysis area 608 within a structure 604 may form a continuous ring-shaped
chamber, connecting with an opening 608 effective to allow flow within the chamber in
either of two directions away from an opening 602. In embodiments, an analysis area 608
within a structure 604 may form a ring-shaped channel or chamber, with one end connecting
with an opening 608, and another end separated or blocked off from the opening 602,
effective to allow flow within the chamber in only one direction away from an opening 602.
In embodiments, such a one-way ring-shaped channel or chamber may have a vent or other
aperture at a location distal to an opening 602. In a still further non-limiting example, the
analysis area may be or include a channel wherein the sample is held in a non-flowing
manner; a sample may be held in a non-flowing manner in an analysis area 608 that
comprises a ring-shaped channel, whether the ring-shaped channel is connected to an opening
602 from two directions, or whether the ring-shaped channel is connected to an opening 602
from only a single direction. In any of the embodiments herein, the system can hold the
samples in a non-flowing manner during analysis. Optionally, some alternative embodiments
may be configured to enable sample flow through the analysis area before, during, or after
analysis. In some embodiments, after analysis, the sample is extracted from the cuvette 600
and then delivered to another station (in a system having multiple stations) for further
processing or analysis. Some embodiments may use gate(s) in the system to control sample
flow.
     100306]    Figure 6B shows only a single annular structure 604; however, it will be
understood that, in further embodiments of a cuvette 600 shaped as illustrated in Figure 6B, a
cuvette 600 may have a plurality of annular structures 604. For example, a cuvette 600
                                                -75
14606381_1

having a plurality of annular structures 604 may have concentric annular structures 604, of
different sizes, with an outer annular structure 604 surrounding one or more inner annular
structures 604. Such annular structures 604 may include analysis areas 608 within each
annular structure 604. Figure 6B shows only a single opening 602; however, it will be
understood that, in further embodiments of a cuvette 600 shaped as illustrated in Figure 6B, a
cuvette 600 may have a plurality of openings 602. For example, a cuvette 600 having a
plurality of annular structures 604 (e.g., having a plurality of concentric annular structures
604) may have a plurality of openings 602 (e.g., each annular structure 604 may have at least
one opening 602). It will be understood that some embodiments may have more, or may have
fewer, openings 602 in a cuvette 600. Some embodiments may link certain openings 602 such
that selected pairs or other sets of openings 602 can access the same channel or chamber. By
way of non-limiting example, there may an opening 602 at each end of an analysis area.
Optionally, more than one opening 602 may be at one end of an analysis area 608.
     100307]     Some embodiments of cuvettes as illustrated in Figures 6A and 6B may
provide structures 604 over select areas of a cuvette 600. In one embodiment, the structures
604 are ribs that provide structural support for areas of the cuvette that are selected to have a
controlled thickness (e.g., areas 613). For example, the thickness may be selected to provide
desired optical properties, including desired pathways for light to follow before and after
reflection within the cuvette 600. Such reflection may be partial internal reflection (PIR) or
total internal reflection (TIR). Whether such reflection occurs depends on many factors,
including the light wavelength; the angle of incidence of the light reaching a surface; the
composition of the material (of area 613 and of an environment or material outside the
boundary of an area 613); and other factors. In the embodiments shown in Figure 6A, the
structures 604 are rectangular in shape, and have a rectangular cross-section. In the
embodiments shown in Figure 6B, the structures 604 are annular in shape, and may have a
rectangular cross-section, or a trapezoidal cross-section, or other shaped cross-section. Such
structures may have any suitable cross-sectional shape. As illustrated in Fig. 8B, such
structures 604 may have a triangular cross-section (e.g., forming a saw-tooth shaped cross
section when multiple ribs are present). It will be understood that such structures 604 may
have other shapes and cross-sections as well (e.g., semi-circular, elliptical, irregular, or other
shape), and that, in embodiments, more than one shape may be present in the same system
(e.g., a cuvette may include rectangular, triangular, or other shaped structures). The structures
604 may be used when the controlled thickness areas 613 are at a reduced thickness relative
                                               -76
14606381_1

to certain areas of the cuvette and thus could benefit from mechanical support provided by
structures 604.
     1003081    In addition to providing structural support, structures 604 may be useful to
provide material and pathways for internal reflection of light within a cuvette 600. As shown
in Figures 8A-8D, light reflected within a cuvette 600 may include pathways for light
reflected within a structure 604 (e.g., a rib, or a structure having a triangular cross-section, as
shown in the figures, or any other shape, such as a circular or semi-circular cross-section, or
other cross-sectional shape). Structures 604 may thus provide convex features extending
outwardly from a surface 614 of a cuvette 600; or may provide concave features extending
inwardly from a surface 614 of a cuvette 600; or may provide both concave and convex
features on a surface 614 of a cuvette 600. Thus structures 604 thus may provide mechanical
support to a cuvette 600, may provide desired optical properties, including optical pathways,
to a cuvette 600, and may provide other desirable and useful features and capabilities to a
cuvette 600 as disclosed herein.
     100309]     Support structures 604 thus may be useful to provide structural support,
including, e.g., stiffness, to a cuvette 600. The optical properties of a cuvette 600 may be
important to their use in optical imaging and other optical measurements of samples in an
analysis area 608 and of cells, particles, and other components of such samples. Maintenance
of the proper flatness of a surface of a cuvette 600, including maintenance of the flatness of a
base portion 606, or a surface 614 or 618; maintenance of proper orientation and
configuration of a cuvette 600 (e.g., without twisting, flexing, or other distortion); and
maintenance of proper positioning of a cuvette 600 (e.g., on a base support 620, or within an
optical set-up) may be important to the integrity of optical measurements and images
obtained using the cuvette 600. Thus, for example, the design and construction of support
structures 604 and base portion 606 may be important factors in providing and maintaining
the proper optical properties of a cuvette 600. Maintenance of the proper dimensions of an
analysis area 608, including maintenance of the proper distances and relative angles of upper
and lower surfaces (or of side walls) of an analysis area 608 may be important to providing
correct and consistent illumination of a sample within an analysis area 608. Maintenance of
the proper dimensions of an analysis area 608 may also be important to insuring that the
volume of an analysis area 608, and so the volume of sample within the analysis area 608, is
correct. As discussed herein, force (e.g., compression) may be applied to a cuvette 600 to
further insure proper flatness, or to decrease twisting or distortion, or otherwise to insure
proper shape, size, and orientation of a cuvette during use. It will be understood that
                                                -77
14606381_1

compression may not be required to insure such proper flatness and proper shape, size, and
orientation of a cuvette during use. For example, in embodiments, structures 604 alone may
be sufficient to aid or insure that a cuvette 600 has the proper flatness and proper shape, size,
and orientation during use. In addition, it will be understood that, in embodiments,
compression alone may be sufficient to aid or insure such proper flatness and proper shape,
size, and orientation of a cuvette 600 during use. It will be understood that, in embodiments,
the combination of structures 604 and compression may aid or insure the maintenance of
proper flatness and proper shape, size, and orientation of a cuvette during use.
     1003101    A cuvette 600, including a support structure 606 and cover portion 612, may
be made of any material having suitable optical properties. In embodiments, a cuvette 600,
including a support structure 606 and cover portion 612, may be made of glass (e.g., quartz,
or borosilicate glass, or aluminosilicate glass, or sodium silicate glass, or other glass). In
embodiments, a cover portion 612 or a base support 620 may be made of an acrylic, or a clear
polymer (e.g., a cyclo-olefin, a polycarbonate, a polystyrene, a polyethylene, a polyurethane,
a polyvinyl chloride, or other polymer or co-polymer), or other transparent material. In
addition to the optical properties of such materials, the physical properties (e.g., hardness,
stiffness, melting point, ability to be machined, and other properties), compatibility with other
materials, cost, and other factors may affect the choice of material used to fabricate a cuvette
600. As discussed above, the presence of structures 604, the availability of compression
(e.g., as may be applied via a structure 610, or directly to at least a portion of a support
structure 606 and cover portion 612), and other factors, may allow the use of materials that
may be less rigid than quartz, for example, yet may still provide the requisite optical and
mechanical properties for use in the systems and methods disclosed herein. In addition, the
presence of structures 604, the availability of compression, and other factors, may allow the
use of manufacturing techniques and tolerances that might otherwise not be possible (e.g.,
due to the possibility of deformation or other factors) in the absence of such structure,
compression, and other factors. In addition, the presence of structures 604, the availability of
compression, and other factors, may allow the use of materials, including less costly
materials, than might otherwise be used in the absence of such structure, compression, and
other factors.
     1003111    Thus, proper design, construction, and materials for support structures 604 and
base portions 606 are important for cuvettes 600 and their use.
     1003121    In some embodiments, these controlled thickness areas 613 (see, e.g., Figures
8A, 8B, and 8D) are selected to be positioned over the analysis areas 608. In some
                                                -78
14606381_1

embodiments, these controlled thickness areas 613 can impart certain optical properties over
or near the analysis areas. Some embodiments may configure the structures 604 to also
impart optical properties on light passing through the cuvette 600. Optionally, in some
embodiments, the structures 604 may be configured to not have an impact on the optical
qualities of the cuvette 600. In such an embodiment, the structures 604 may be configured to
have one or more optically absorbent surfaces. For example and without limitation, certain
surfaces may be black. Optionally, some embodiments may have the structures 604 formed
from a material to absorb light. Optionally, the structures 604 can be positioned to provide
mechanical support but do not interact with the optical properties of cuvette 600 near the
analysis areas.
     1003131     For example, certain surfaces, including a surface 614 of a controlled
thickness area 613, and a surface 618 of a structure 604, may be coated with a black, or other
color, coating. Such a coating may include one layer, and may include multiple, layers. For
example, suitable coatings of a surface 614 or 618 may include 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or more layers.
In embodiments, e.g., a surface of a structure 604 (e.g., a surface 618) or a surface 614 may
be covered by 3 or 5 layers of coating. Such a coating may include a dye, an ink, a paint, a
surface treatment, a colored tape, or other coating or surface treatment. In embodiments, a
black or other color marker (e.g., a Paper Mate*, or Sharpie*, or Magic Marker*, or other
marker) may be used to coat a surface 614 of a controlled thickness area 613 or a surface 618
of a structure 604. For example, an extra-large black marker may be used to apply multiple
coats of black ink to a surface 614 or to the outer surface 618 of a structure 604 to provide an
optically absorbent surface and so to improve the optical qualities of a cuvette 600. In
embodiments, a surface 614 or 618 may be coated or treated so as to affect or reduce
reflectance (whether PIR or TIR) at the surface. A reduction in reflectance at a surface may
affect (e.g., reduce) background illumination from a surface.
     1003141     In embodiments, certain surfaces, including a surface 614 of a controlled
thickness area 613, and a surface 618 of a structure 604, may be coated or covered with a
material which enhances reflectance at the surface. Reflectance at a surface may be increased,
for example, by coating a surface, or attaching a material to a surface; suitable materials for
increasing reflectance include aluminum, silver, gold, and dielectric materials (e.g.,
magnesium fluoride, calcium fluoride, or other salt or metal oxide; or other reflective or
dielectric material). Such a coating or covering may include one layer, and may include
multiple, layers. For example, suitable coatings and coverings of a surface 614 or 618 may
include 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or more layers. An increase in reflectance at a surface may affect (e.g.,
                                               -79
14606381_1

increase) trans-illumination from a surface. An increase in reflectance at a surface may aid or
enhance imaging of a sample within an analysis area 608, or may aid or enhance optical
analysis of a sample within an analysis area 608.
     1003151    It should be understood that the cuvette 600 is typically formed from an
optically transparent or optically transmissive material. Optionally, only select portions of the
cuvette 600 (such as, e.g., the analysis areas or areas associated with the analysis areas) are
optically transparent or optically transmissive. Optionally, select layers or areas in the cuvette
600 can also be configured to be non-light transmissive. A portion or area of a cuvette may be
covered or coated so as to be light absorbing; for example, a surface (or portion thereof) may
be coated with a dark, or a light-absorbing, dye or ink. In a further example, a surface (or
portion thereof) may be covered with a dark, or a light-absorbing, coating, such as a dark or
light-absorbing material, e.g., tape, or cloth, or paper, or rubber, or plastic.
     100316]    Figures 6A, 6B, and 8A - 8D illustrate embodiments in which the cuvette 600
rests on a base support 620 wherein some or all of the base support 620 is formed from an
optically transparent or transmissive material. In some embodiments, the optically transparent
or transmissive portions are configured to be aligned with the analysis areas of the cuvette
600 to allow for optical interrogation of the sample in the analysis area. In one non-limiting
example, the base support 620 can be movable in the X, Y, or Z axis to move the cuvette 600
to a desired position for imaging. In some embodiments, the base support 620 comprises a
platform or stage that moves only in two of the axes. Optionally, some support structures
may move only in a single axis. The cuvette 600 can be configured to be operably coupled to
the support structure 600 through friction, mechanical coupling, or by retaining members
mounted to one or both of the components. In embodiments, compression, or other force may
be applied to a cuvette 600 or a base support 620, or both, in order to ensure adequate contact
and proper fit between a cuvette 600 and a base support 620. In embodiments, such
compression may aid in ensuring that an optically transmissive surface of a cuvette 600, or of
a base support 620, or such surfaces of both, is optically flat and substantially free of
distortion. For example in embodiments, a cuvette 600 may be pressed against a base support
620 in order to reduce or obviate any possible optical distortion which might be caused by
imperfections or abnormalities in an optical surface of a cuvette 600. In embodiments, such
force (e.g., compression) may aid in providing desired optical properties, effective to allow
passage of light with distortion at the interface than might otherwise be produced. In
embodiments, such force (e.g., compression) may be applied, at least in part, via a structure
610 or via multiple structures 610.
                                                -80
14606381_1

     100317]     Figures 6A, 6B, 8A, 8B, 8C, and 8D further show embodiments in which
illumination for dark field or brightfield observation may be provided by an illumination
source 650 (such as but not limited to a ringlight as shown) placed below the base support
620 to locate illumination equipment below the level of the cuvette 600. This configuration
leaves the upper areas of the cuvette 600 available for pipettes, sample handling equipment,
or other equipment to have un-hindered access to openings or other features on a top surface
of the cuvette 600. Optionally, some embodiments may locate an illumination source 660
(shown in phantom) above the cuvette 600 to be used in place of, in single, or in multiple
combination with underside illumination (e.g., an underside illumination source 650 as
shown). An objective 670 can be positioned as shown, or in other configurations, to observe
the sample being illuminated. It should be understood that relative motion between the
cuvette 600 and the optical portions 650 and 670 can be used to allow the system to visualize
different analysis areas in the cuvette 600. Optionally, only one of such components is placed
in motion in order to interrogate different areas of the cuvette 600.
     1003181     Referring now to Figure 7A, one embodiment of a suitable imaging system
will now be described in more detail. Figure 7A shows a schematic cross-sectional view of
various components positioned below the base support 620. The cross-section is along the
area indicated by bent arrows 7 in Figure 6A.
     100319]     Figure 7A shows an embodiment in which the cuvette 600 comprises a base
portion 606 and analysis areas 608 defined by a cover portion 612. Optionally, the analysis
areas 608 may be defined within a single piece. Optionally, the analysis areas 608 may be
defined by using more than two pieces, such as but not limited a discrete cover piece for each
of the analysis areas 608. In one embodiment, the layer 606 comprises optically clear plastic
such as but not limited to cyclo-olefin polymer thermoplastic which deliver superior optical
components and applications. In some embodiments, one or more layers or components may
be formed from glass, acrylic, clear polymer, or other transparent material. The cuvette 600
illustrated in Figure 7A includes five separate analysis areas 608; these areas are shown in
cross-section in the figure; analysis areas 608 having such a cross-section may be rectangular,
or square, or other shape. For example, analysis areas 608 may comprise elongated channels
providing shallow chambers with relatively large amounts of surface area though which
samples may be observed. In embodiments, analysis areas 608 may have curved, or
polygonal, or irregular shapes, and may be separate, or may be connected by connecting
channels. It will be understood that a cuvette 600 may include a single analysis area 608; or
may include two analysis areas 608; or may include three analysis areas 608; or may include
                                               -81
14606381_1

four analysis areas 608; or may include five (as shown in Figure 7A) or more analysis areas
608.
     1003201     In embodiments, a channel in a cuvette 600, such as an analysis area 608, may
have an irregular shape so that a cross-sectional dimension differs along the length of the
channel; for example, a channel in a cuvette 600 may have a narrow end portion and a wider
middle portion. In embodiments, a channel in a cuvette 600, such as an analysis area 608,
may have U-shape or other shape in which a first elongated portion of a single analysis area
is disposed near to, or alongside, a second elongated portion of the same analysis area 608.
For example, in such an embodiment, the rectangle indicated by the lead line labeled "608" in
Fig. 7A may be a portion of same analysis area illustrated by the rectangle immediately to the
left of the rectangle indicated by the lead line labeled "608".
     100321]     In embodiments, a sample to be interrogated can be held in whole or in part in
an analysis area 608. In embodiments, more than one portion of a sample, or more than one
sample, or portions of more than one sample, may be held in an analysis area 608. In
embodiments, portions of a sample, or portions of different samples, within a channel of a
cuvette too, e.g., within an analysis area 608, may be separated by an air bubble, or by an oil
droplet, or by another material or materials.
     1003221     In embodiments, analysis of a sample held in an analysis area 608 may
comprise optical observation, measurement, or imaging of at least a portion of an analysis
area 608. In embodiments, optical observation, measurement, or imaging of at least a portion
of an analysis area 608 may comprise optical observation, measurement, or imaging of an
entire analysis area 608. In embodiments, analysis of a sample held in an analysis area 608
may comprise optical observation, measurement, or imaging of only a portion of an analysis
area 608. In embodiments, analysis of a sample held in an analysis area 608 may comprise
optical observation, measurement, or imaging of a region of interest (ROI) within at least a
portion of an analysis area 608. In embodiments, analysis of a sample held in an analysis area
608 may comprise optical observation, measurement, or imaging of multiple ROIs within an
analysis area 608. For example, where a channel in a cuvette 600 has a narrow end portion
and a wider middle portion, multiple ROIs may be observed, measured, or imaged in the
wider middle portion, while, for example, only a single ROI (or no ROI) may be observed,
measured, or imaged in the narrower end portion.
     1003231     By way of non-limiting example, the optics below the base support 620 may
include a ringlight 650 that comprises a toroidal reflector 652 and a light source 654. Other
illumination components suitable for dark field illumination may be used; thus the optics may
                                               -82
14606381_1

include other sources of illumination, alone or in combination with such a ringlight. Some
embodiments may use a mirror. Some embodiments may use a coated reflective surface.
Some embodiments may use a different reflector than the ones shown in the figure (e.g., may
not use toroidal reflection in illuminating a sample). Some embodiments may use a parabolic
reflector. Some embodiments may use a parabolic reflector in the shape of an elliptic
paraboloid. Some embodiments may use a plurality of individual reflector pieces. Some
embodiments may not use any reflector. Some embodiments obtain oblique illumination
through the use of angled light sources positioned to direct light with or without further
assistance from one or more external reflectors.
     1003241    Multiple wavelengths of light may be emitted by a light source or light
sources, either simultaneously or sequentially. The embodiment illustrated in Figure 7A
shows excitation energy sources 680, 682, and 684 such as but not limited laser diodes at
specific wavelengths that are mounted to direct light into the sample in analysis area 608. In
one non-limiting example to facilitate compact packaging, the energy sources 680, 682, and
684 may direct light to a dichroic element 690 (e.g., a dichroic mirror or beamsplitter) that
then directs the excitation wavelengths into the analysis area 608. The excitation
wavelength(s) cause fluorescence wavelengths to be emitted by fluorophores in marker(s),
dye(s), or other materials in the sample. The emitted fluorescence wavelengths are funneled
through the objective 670, through the dichroic element 690, through an optional filter wheel
692, and into a detector 700 such as but not limited to a camera system. By way of non
limiting example, the dichroic element 690 is configured to reflect excitation wavelengths but
pass fluorescence wavelengths and any wavelengths desired for optical observation.
     1003251    Multiple wavelengths of light may be acquired either simultaneously or
sequentially. In one embodiment, all fluorescence excitation wavelengths illuminate the
sample in analysis area 608 simultaneously. For example, a detector 700 may be coupled to a
programmable processor 710 that can take the captured signal or image and deconstruct
which wavelengths are associated with which fluorophores that are fluorescing. In some
embodiments, excitation sources may illuminate the sample sequentially or in subsets of the
entire number of excitation sources. Of course, it should be understood that the system is not
limited to fluorescence-based excitation of fluorophores in a sample, and that other detection
techniques and excitation techniques may be used in place of, or in single or multiple
combination with fluorescence. For example, some embodiments may also collect dark field
illumination scatter information simultaneously or sequentially in combination with
fluorescence detection.
                                               -83
14606381_1

     100326]     In a further embodiment, illumination of a sample is accomplished over a
period of time by scanning a spot, or spots, of light, over the sample (e.g., within an analysis
area 608 or within an ROI within, or comprising, an analysis area 608). Such a spot, or spots,
may comprise points of light, or may comprise lines of light, or may comprise other shapes,
or may comprise combinations thereof. Such a scan may be, e.g., a raster scan (e.g., where
illuminated regions form a series of adjacent (dotted or dashed) lines), a rectangular scan
(e.g., where illuminated regions form nested square or rectangular shapes delimited by
(dotted or dashed) lines), a spiral scan (e.g., where illuminated regions form a (dotted or
dashed) spiral line pattern), or other shape or pattern scan.
     100327]     Similarly, examination of a sample may be accomplished at one time, or may
be accomplished over a period of time by measuring light from a spot, or spots, of light, over
the sample (e.g., within an analysis area 608 or within an ROI within, or comprising, an
analysis area 608). Such measurements may be recorded. Such a spot, or spots, may comprise
points of light, or may comprise lines of light, or may comprise other shapes, or may
comprise combinations thereof. Such a scan may be, e.g., a raster scan (e.g., where
illuminated regions form a series of adjacent (dotted or dashed) lines), a rectangular scan
(e.g., where illuminated regions form nested square or rectangular shapes delimited by
(dotted or dashed) lines), a spiral scan (e.g., where illuminated regions form a (dotted or
dashed) spiral line pattern), or other shape or pattern scan.
     1003281     Such scanning (whether for illumination, measurement, or both) may be
accomplished, for example, by use of piezoelectric, electromechanical, hydraulic, or other
elements operably connected to, e.g., optical element 690, a mirror or mirrors (e.g., a mirror
associated with excitation energy sources 680, 682, or 684), or to other reflectors, gratings,
prisms, or other optical elements.
     100329]     Light scattered by an object in a sample within a sample holder (e.g., a cell, or
a bead, or a crystal) will be scattered at a plurality of scatter angles, where a scatter angle may
be measured with respect to a ray of incident light passing from a light source to the object.
Such a plurality of scatter angles comprises a range of scatter angles. Such a sample holder
may have features as disclosed herein, and may be configured to provide pathways for
internal light reflections. An objective lens configured to image the object will gather and
focus the scattered light, where the light may be passed to a detector. Such light focused by
an objective lens and focused on a detector may form a spot of light on the detector. In
embodiments, the light passing from the objective lens to the detector may be focused by a
further lens; such focusing may reduce the size of the spot of light formed on the detector.
                                                -84
14606381_1

The light focused on a detector, whether or not it passes through a further lens, will comprise
light scattered at a plurality of scatter angles from the object within the sample holder.
     1003301    Applicants disclose herein methods, systems, and devices (e.g., sample
holders) which allow detection of a smaller range of scatter angles than otherwise possible,
thereby providing greater resolution and better imaging of samples and of objects within a
sample. Applicants disclose herein design features for cuvettes which may be used to control
the angles and intensities of light rays incident on the sample, e.g., via PIR and TIR, effective
to control the angles at which scattered light is measured.
     1003311    Due to constraints imposed by non-imaging optics of many systems (e.g.
etendue, or the extent of the spread of light passing through the system) the scatter angles of
light arriving at a detector can be wider than desired. For example, in some ringlight-cuvette
combinations using LEDs as light sources, light rays striking the sample may be spread out to
at least 20 degrees around the principal angle. In other words, if the principal ray strikes the
sample at 60 degrees, the other rays of the bundle of light rays may strike the sample at
scatter angles of about 50 degrees to about 70 degrees. It will be understood that the spread of
the cone of scatter angles of light collected by an objective depends upon the numerical
aperture of the lens. In such a case, the light collected by the objective lens (e.g., having a
numerical aperture of 40 degrees) would be in a cone of about 30-70 degrees. Consequently,
light scattered over a wide range of scatter angles will arrive at the detector; for example,
such a system will measure all the light scattered by the sample in a large cone centered
around 60 degrees +/- 40 degrees. However, as disclosed herein, some applications require
detection of light within a narrower range of scatter angles, e.g., within a very narrow range
of angles (say 60 +/- 5 degrees). Applicants disclose herein that, in order to provide light
measurements from within this narrower range, an aperture can be placed in the Fourier (or
back focal plane) of the objective lens (or any plane conjugate with this plane). In the Fourier
plane, the angle information is spatially coded. Therefore, depending upon the shape and size
of this aperture, light coming from the sample at specific angles can be prevented from
reaching the detector (e.g., blocked or filtered out). An annular aperture will block or filter
out the inner angles (say 60+/-30 degrees). The resultant measurement can therefore be
tailored to the desired angles.
     1003321    In embodiments, an aperture may be provided through which light from an
objective lens passes prior to contacting a detector. In embodiments, an aperture may be
provided through which light from a further lens (after passing through an objective lens)
passes prior to contacting a detector. Where such an aperture is configured to limit the light
                                                 -85
14606381_1

which passes through to the detector, the light which passes through will be will be reduced
to light from fewer scatter angles, and to light from a smaller range of scatter angles, than the
light which passes through in the absence of such an aperture. In embodiments, such an
aperture may comprise a single hole, such as a circular hole. In embodiments, such an
aperture may comprise a single annulus, such as a circular ring through which light may pass,
and having a central area (e.g., a circular area) through which light does not pass. In
embodiments, such an aperture may comprise two, or three, or more, concentric annuli
through which light may pass, and may include a central area (e.g., a circular area) through
which light does not pass. In embodiments, such an aperture may comprise a shape other
than a circular or annular shape.
     1003331     Such an aperture disposed between an objective and a detector, e.g. disposed
between a further lens and a detector (where light passes through an objective lens prior to
passing through the further lens), provides the advantage of sharper discrimination of the
light scattered from the sample, improving the resolution of light-scatter images (e.g., dark
field images) obtained from the sample. In embodiments where light intensity may be a
factor, the intensity of light applied (e.g., from a light source, or from multiple light sources)
may be increased in configurations having an aperture as disclosed herein, as compared to
configurations lacking an aperture as disclosed herein.
     1003341    A system may include a sample holder having features as discussed and
described herein, and light sources, dichroic mirrors, and other elements as shown in Fig. 7A.
As illustrated in Fig. 7B, systems having similar features (e.g., similar to those shown in Fig.
7A and other figures herein) may include a sample holder 600, a light source 650 (e.g., light
sources 654, or an excitation source 680, or both), an objective lens 670, an aperture 694, a
further lens 696, and a Fourier lens 698. An aperture 694 may have a single passage for
allowing light to pass thorough to a detector 700. A detector 700 may be operably linked to a
processor (e.g., a programmable processor) 710. In embodiments, an aperture 694 may
comprise two passages for allowing light to pass thorough to a detector 700. In embodiments,
an aperture 694 may comprise three passages for allowing light to pass thorough to a detector
700. In embodiments, an aperture 694 may comprise four, or more, passages for allowing
light to pass thorough to a detector 700. In embodiments, a passage in an aperture 694 may
comprise a circular hole allowing light to pass thorough to a detector 700. In embodiments, a
passage in an aperture 694 may comprise two, or three, or four or more circular holes
allowing light to pass thorough to a detector 700. In embodiments, a passage in an aperture
694 may comprise an annulus configured to allow light to pass thorough to a detector 700,
                                                 -86
14606381_1

and may include a central portion which does not allow light to pass through to a detector
700. In embodiments, a passage in an aperture 694 may comprise two or more annuli (e.g., in
embodiments, concentric annuli) each of which is configured to allow light to pass thorough
to a detector 700; and such an aperture 694 may include a central portion which does not
allow light to pass through to a detector 700. Such an annulus, and such annuli, may have a
circular, or elliptical, or other annular shape.
     1003351     Accordingly, Applicants disclose systems for imaging a sample, comprising: a
sample holder, a light source for illuminating an object held within said sample holder, an
objective lens configured to collect and focus light scattered from an object held within said
sample holder, wherein said scattered light comprises light scattered at a plurality of scatter
angles, an optical aperture for passing light from said objective lens, and a further lens
configured to focus light from said objective lens onto said optical aperture, wherein said
optical aperture is configured to allow only a portion of light focused by said objective lens to
pass through the aperture, whereby said portion of light allowed to pass through said aperture
consists of light scattered at only a portion of said plurality of scatter angles.
     100336]     As used herein, the terms "epi" and "epi-illumination" refer to illumination of
a sample by light traveling in a direction that is generally away from an objective or other
optical element used to observe or image the sample. Thus, in the absence of fluorescence, an
image of a sample illuminated by epi-illumination is formed with light reflected or scattered
from the sample (light travels from the light source to the sample, and is reflected or scattered
by the sample back to the optical elements for observation, imaging, or measurement). As
used herein, the terms "trans" and "trans-illumination" refer to illumination of a sample by
light traveling in a direction that is generally towards an objective or other optical element
used to observe or image the object (light travels from the light source to and through the
sample, and continues on to the optical elements for observation, imaging, or measurement).
Thus, in the absence of fluorescence, an image of a sample illuminated by trans-illumination
is formed with light passing through, or scattered by, the sample.
     100337]     Where a light source is disposed on the same side of a sample as the objective
or other optical elements used to observe or image a sample, light from the light source
travels directly to the sample, and the sample is thus typically observed or imaged by epi
illumination. However, even where a sole light source is placed on the same side of a sample
as the objective or optical elements, a sample holder as disclosed herein is able to provide
trans-illumination of a sample in addition to epi-illumination. Thus, both directions of
illumination are enabled without requiring placement of light sources on both sides of a
                                                 -87
14606381_1

sample. Such a configuration is compact, sparing of resources, and, since the light source and
other optical elements are disposed on only one side of the sample holder, the configuration
allows unimpeded access to the side of the sample holder without interference by the optical
elements. Thus, such a configuration provides the advantage of enabling loading, mixing, and
removal of a sample and reagents in the sample holder without interference with optical
imaging or measurements, or the apparatus and elements used for optical imaging or
measurements.
    100338]     As illustrated by the images shown in Figures 4A and 4B, adding trans
illumination to dark field images greatly enhances the image and greatly enhances the
information available from the image. The methods and systems disclosed herein provide
such greatly enhanced images by combining both epi-illumination and trans-illumination,
using illumination from a single direction, and, in embodiments, from only a single light
source.
    [00339]     As disclosed herein, a sample holder such as a cuvette 600 (e.g., as illustrated
in Figures 8A - 8D) is configured to allow internal reflection of light from a light source
(whether PIR or TIR), so that a sample held in an analysis area 608 of a cuvette 600 is
illuminated by direct light (epi-illumination; e.g., light travelling along path 830) and is also
illuminated by indirect, reflected light (trans-illumination; e.g., light travelling along a path
820 or 825). As disclosed herein, light from a light source disposed on the same side of a
cuvette 600 as optical elements 670, 690, 700, etc., may provide both epi- and trans
illumination of a sample.
    1003401     Referring now to Figures 8A - 8D, a still further embodiment will now be
described. Figures 8A - 8D show a schematic of a cross-section of a portion of a cuvette 600
and the dark field scatter illumination source such as but not limited to the ringlight 650
shown in Figures 6A and 6B. Base support 620 is also shown in Figures 8A - 8D. Figures
8A - 8D include brackets and arrows to indicate structures or portions of structures; for
example, the bracket labeled 600 indicates the entire cuvette 600 shown in the figure; the
bracket labeled 612 indicates the cover portion 612 of the cuvette 600. The arrows 621 to 626
in Figure 8A indicate dimensions for the indicated portions of the cover portion 612. It will
be understood that these dimensions may vary in different embodiments of a cuvette 600, and
that such variations may depend upon the size, application, materials, optical wavelengths,
samples, and other elements and factors related to the construction and use of a cuvette 600.
For example, in embodiments, the distance 621 between support structures 604 may be
between about 0.1 millimeter (mm) to about 1 centimeter (cm), and in embodiments may be
                                               -88
14606381_1

between about 1 mm to about 100 mm, or between about 1.5 mm to about 50 mm, or between
about 2 mm to about 20 mm. In further embodiments, the distance 621 between support
structures 604 may be between about 0.5 mm to about 10 mm, or between about 1 mm to
about 5 mm. In embodiments, the height 622 of a support structure 604 may be between
about 0.1 mm to about 100 mm, or between about 0.5 mm to about 50 mm, or between about
1 mm to about 25 mm. In further embodiments, the height 622 of a support structure 604 may
be between about 0.1 mm to about 10 mm, or between about 1 mm to about 5 mm. Similarly,
in embodiments, the height 623 of a controlled thickness area 613 may be between about 0.1
mm to about 100 mm, or between about 0.5 mm to about 50 mm, or between about 1 mm to
about 25 mm. In further embodiments, the height 623 of a controlled thickness area 613 may
be between about 0.1 mm to about 10 mm, or between about 1 mm to about 5 mm. In
embodiments, the thickness 624 of a layer 800 may be between about 0.01 mm to about 10
mm, or between about 0.05 mm to about 1 mm, or between about 0.1 mm to about 0.5 mm.
In embodiments, the width 625 of an analysis area 608 may be between about 0.05 mm to
about 100 mm, or between about 0.5 mm to about 50 mm, or between about 1 mm to about
25 mm. In further embodiments, the width 625 of an analysis area 608 may be between about
0.1 mm to about 10 mm, or between about 1 mm to about 5 mm. In embodiments, the width
626 of a support structure 604 may be between about 0.1 mm to about 100 mm, or between
about 0.5 mm to about 50 mm, or between about 1 mm to about 25 mm. In further
embodiments, the width 626 of a support structure 604 may be between about 0.05 mm to
about 10 mm, or between about 0.5 mm to about 5 mm.
    1003411     It will be understood that optical components and arrangements for
illumination, for excitation, for observation of emission, and the like, as illustrated in any one
figure herein, may suggest components and arrangements that may be applied in
embodiments of other figures, even if such particular components or arrangements are not
explicitly shown in each figure. For example, although a ringlight 650 or other source of
illumination 650 is not included in Figure 8D, in any of the embodiments shown, and in other
embodiments, a ringlight 650 or other source of illumination 650 (see, e.g., Figures 8A, 8B,
and 8C) may be used to illuminate the analysis area 608 (analysis area 608 is shown in
Figures 8A and 8B). As examples of optical components which are suitable for use with a
cuvette 600, ringlight components 652 and 654 are shown in Figures 8A, 8B, and 8D; in
embodiments, other, or other numbers of, illumination components may be used. For
example, light source 654 may be white light or light sources such as but not limited to light
emitting diodes (LEDs) or laser diodes with specific wavelength output or output ranges.
                                               -89
14606381_1

Optionally, the ring of light source 654 could be fiber optic cable configured to provide a ring
of light (e.g., with many splices). Optionally, the light source 654 may be an LED which has
a specific narrow divergence angle controlled by the reflector. It may be desirable to control
the divergence angle from a ringlight through the selection of the light source or through the
design of the reflector.
     1003421     By way of non-limiting example, a light source 654 may use laser illumination
to provide a narrow light pattern, resulting in lower trans-illumination background in the
present epi-style lighting configuration (where illumination components are all on one side of
the sample) because the light source: provides a narrow spot of light (directed within the
sample analysis area 608); provides light of narrow spectral width (e.g., light of wavelengths
within a narrow range centered around a particular main wavelength); and is a coherent
source. Optionally, use of a LED as the illumination source 654 may also provide a small
spot size (e.g., a small spot size within an analysis area 608) and so provide some of the
beneficial properties achieved by a laser light source. For these, and other reasons, a laser
light source (or an LED providing a small spot size) is effective to lower background signal
levels as compared with other illumination configurations. Laser illumination may reduce
scattered light as compared to that which typically occurs with more diffuse light sources,
and so may reduce the background in one channel (e.g., within a first analysis area 608) by
reducing light scattered into that channel from an adjacent channel (e.g., from an adjacent,
second analysis area 608). Thus, laser illumination can result in less trans-illumination
background than would be expected from illumination by more diffuse light sources. Of
course, it is desirable that the decrease in trans-illumination is less than the decrease in
background, where the more significant drop in background results in a more distinguishable
signal. Optionally, use of a LED as the illumination source 654 provides a diffuse light
pattern, with increased background and increased trans-illumination. Of course, it is desirable
that the increase in trans-illumination is greater than the increase in background.
     1003431     Some cuvette embodiments may include cuvettes formed from a plurality of
individual layers adhered together, having the cuvette molded from one or more materials, or
having reflective layers added to the cuvette at different surfaces to enhance single or
multiple internal reflections (e.g., to enhance TIR or PIR).
     1003441     In embodiments, systems, cuvettes, and optical elements disclosed herein may
be operating in combination with fluorescence, it may be desirable that dark field
illumination used with such systems and cuvettes not be white light illumination. However,
                                                -90
14606381_1

some embodiments may use just white light, e.g., if fluorescence detection is not used in
combination with dark field or brightfield microscopy.
    1003451     Figures 8A and 8B shows that in some embodiments, the device may have
layers in the cuvette 600 that are optically non-transmissive such as layer 800. This may be
useful in embodiments where the light source 654 is diffuse and light is not directed to
specific locations. The layer 800 can block light that is not entering the cuvette 600 at
desired angles or locations. The layer 800 can be configured to be positioned to prevent
illumination except through the area below the analysis areas 608. Some may only have
specific areas that are blacked out nearest the analysis areas 608. Some embodiments may
have blacked out or non-tranmissive material in more than one layer. Some may have blacked
out or non-transmissive material in different orientations, such as but not limited to one being
horizontal and one being vertical or non-horizontal.
    100346]     It will be understood that, in embodiments, a layer 800 may be optically
transmissive. For example, Figure 8D presents an embodiment in which a layer 800 is
optically transmissive. In some embodiments, a layer 800 may comprise an optically
transmissive material having an index of refraction that is different than the index of
refraction of a controlled thickness area 613, or of a base support 620, or of both. In some
embodiments, a layer 800 may comprise an optically transmissive material having an index
of refraction that is the same as the index of refraction of a controlled thickness area 613, or
of a base support 620, or of both.
    100347]     In Figures 8A, 8B, and 8C, a light source is shown located below a cuvette
600 (near to optics 652 and 654) and provides light directed from below base portion 606.
Such a light source may be understood to be in place in the example illustrated in Figure 8D
as well. As shown in these figures, a light source 650 may include a ringlight 654 and a
toroidal reflector 652. Other elements, including without limitation lenses, filters, gratings,
mirrors and other reflective surfaces, optical fibers, prisms, and other elements may be
included. In embodiments, a light source may comprise a laser, or a LED, or other light
source; and may comprise a fiber optic which carries light from such a source to another
location, or which directs light towards an optical element. One design criterion for optical
systems is the divergence, or divergence angle, of light from the light source; a light beam of
width D with low divergence provides a smaller spot at a given distance from the source than
does a light beam of width D with high divergence. In general, a light source 650 which
provides light with low divergence is preferred. Such optical elements and configurations
may be designed so as to provide light which is substantially collimated, e.g., most or all light
                                                -91
14606381_1

is directed along substantially parallel paths towards the sample (e.g., towards an analysis
area 608). However, in embodiments where diffuse or scattered light is preferred, a light
source 650 with high divergence may be used.
     1003481     As shown in Figure 8C, an embodiment of an optical system suitable as part of
device or system as disclosed herein may include optics (e.g., a light-source 650, e.g., as
shown in Figure 8C as a ringlight 654, and an objective 670), a cuvette 600, and a base
support 620 configured to hold and position a cuvette for imaging. In embodiments as shown
in Figure 8C, a base support 620 may include optical features 802 configured to refract (or
diffract, or otherwise alter the path of) light from a light-source 650. As illustrated in Figure
8C, optical features 802 may comprise an array of lenslets. It will be understood that optical
features 802 may comprise any suitable optical feature. In embodiments, optical features 802
may comprise lenslets, or diffraction gratings, or Fresnel lenses, or convexities, or
concavities, or other shapes and features which may refract, diffract, or otherwise alter light,
or combinations thereof. In embodiments, such optical features 802 may comprise different
material than base support 620, and may have a different index of refraction than base
support 620. For example, light affected by optical features 802 may be directed towards an
analysis area 608, either directly, or indirectly via reflection (e.g., internal reflection) suitable
for use in methods disclosed herein, e.g., so as to provide both epi-illumination and trans
illumination of a sample in an analysis area 608. As illustrated in the embodiment shown in
Figure 8C, such embodiments may also include a light path which bypasses optical features
802. Such a light path may be better suited for imaging of a sample within an analysis area
608 than paths which would require imaging through an optical feature 802. In embodiments,
both types of light paths (i.e., bypassing optical features 802 and passing through optical
features 802) may be provided at the same time, thus providing suitable optics for image
analysis of a sample illuminated by both epi-illumination and trans-illumination from a light
source situated on the same side of a cuvette 600 as a light source 650.
     100349]     The cuvette 600 includes features which affect the path of light illuminating
the cuvette and the sample within the cuvette. Such trans-illumination may be effected by
light reflected within a cuvette 600 (e.g., by internal reflection, including or primarily by
partial internal reflection (PIR) or total internal reflection (TIR) from, for example, a surface
612, a surface 604, or other surfaces or combinations of surfaces. Other examples of
pathways of light undergoing TIR are shown, for example, in Figures 8A, 8B, and 8D.
     1003501     As illustrated in Figure 8D, in embodiments, a cuvette 600 of an optical
system of a device or system as disclosed herein, and suitable for use in methods disclosed
                                                 -92
14606381_1

herein, may include features which affect the path of light illuminating internal portions of
the cuvette 600, such as light illuminating an analysis area 608, and the sample within an
analysis area 608 of a cuvette 600. As shown in Figure 8D, a layer 800 may include features
which refract, diffract, or otherwise affect or alter the path of light entering an analysis area
608. Such alteration of light paths may affect, and may improve, the illumination of sample
within an analysis area 608. In the example shown in Figure 8D, light enters layer 800 from a
transverse direction; the light paths are altered by the shape (and material properties) of the
layer 800, and are directed as desired into analysis area 608. For example, an external surface
of a layer 800 may be flat (e.g., external surface 674) or may be curved (e.g., external surface
676). For example, an internal surface of a layer 800 may be flat (not shown in Fig. 8D; see,
however, such surfaces in Figs. 8A and 8B (although layers 800 in Figures 8A and 8B are not
optically transmissive, these surfaces are shown as being flat) or may be curved (e.g., internal
surface 678 shown in Fig. 8D). In embodiments, such alteration of light paths is effective to
provide both epi-illumination and trans-illumination of samples in an analysis area 608.
     1003511     Figures 8A, 8B, 8C, and 8D illustrate light paths within a sample holder
providing examples of TIR and PIR within a cover portion 612 at an upper surface 614 or at
surface 618 in a support structure 604. A sample holder, such as a cuvette 600, may have an
optically transmissive surface through which light may pass; in embodiments, such an
optically transmissive surface may allow light to pass without significant distortion or
diminution in light intensity. A sample holder, such as a cuvette 600, may be made of
optically transmissive material, effective that light may pass within the sample holder. In
embodiments where a sample holder is at least partially made of optically transmissive
material, light may pass through an optically transmissive surface of a sample holder, and
may travel within the sample holder. In embodiments, light traveling within a sample holder
may be reflected at one or more surfaces, and travel along a reflection path within a sample
holder. Where light from a light source disposed outside a sample holder enters a sample
holder through an optically transmissive surface of a sample holder, such light may travel
within the sample holder away from the light source, and may be reflected at a surface of the
sample holder, so that the reflected light may travel in a direction towards the light source
after being reflected. Such reflections may be by PIR or TIR.
     1003521     That is, light passing within a cuvette 600 may reflect off a surface (e.g., a
surface 614 or surface 618 as shown in Figs. 8A and 8B). Such internal reflections may be
effective to illuminate a sample within an analysis area 608 with indirect light; in
combination with direct illumination (where the light is not reflected prior to impinging on a
                                                -93
14606381_1

sample), the sample may in this way receive epi-illumination (illumination from the same
side as the optical detection elements) and trans-illumination (illumination from the side
opposite the optical detection elements). Where a surface 614, or a surface 618, or both, are
configured to absorb light (e.g., are painted or coated black), an epi-illumination source alone
may be used to provide dark field images. Where a surface 614, or a surface 618, or both, are
configured to scatter light (e.g., are not polished or have rough surfaces), an epi-illumination
source alone may be used to provide such scattered light suitable for obtaining bright-field
images.
    1003531     It will be understood that light wavelengths, material, surfaces, and
configurations that promote or enhance PIR may not be suitable or effective to promote or
enhance TIR. It will be understood that light wavelengths, material, surfaces, and
configurations that promote or enhance TIR may not be suitable or effective to promote or
enhance PIR. Thus, there are designs and constructions where one or the other of PIR and
TIR may be promoted, in the absence of the other. In embodiments, there are designs and
constructions where both of PIR and TIR may be promoted. In embodiments, there are
designs and constructions in which neither PIR nor TIR are promoted.
    1003541     As illustrated in Figure 8A, support structures 604 may have rectangular or
square cross-sections. It will be understood that a support structure 604 may have a cross
sectional shape other than square or rectangular; for example, as shown in Figure 8B, a
support structure 604 may have a triangular cross-sectional shape; other cross-sectional
shapes (e.g., rounded or semi-circular, or jagged, or irregular) may also be suitable for use
with systems and cuvettes disclosed herein. PIR and TIR are tunable features that can
selected based on the material used for the cuvette 600, any coatings, cladding, or coverings
applied, and the geometry or thickness of the controlled thickness area 613 of the cuvette
600. In embodiments, PIR may be preferred, and light, materials, and configurations may be
selected to enhance PIR.
    1003551     In embodiments, TIR may be preferred. In embodiments, the wavelength or
wavelengths of light from a light source 650 may be selected to enhance TIR. In
embodiments, the material, thickness, surface configuration, and other features of a cuvette
600 may be selected to enhance TIR. For example, the height (as measured from the base of
cover portion 612 in contact with layer 800) of the controlled thickness area 613 will affect
the angle and intensity of light reflected by TIR that arrives at analysis area 608.
Configuration of a cuvette 600 so as to enable TIR of light within the cuvette which allows
for oblique angle illumination of a sample (illumination coming from above the sample) is
                                                -94
14606381_1

desirable, particularly for dark field microscopy. In some embodiments, it is desirable to
maximize TIR from above the sample. Optionally, in some embodiments a cuvette 600 may
be configured to provide TIR only from surfaces over the analysis areas 608. Optionally,
some embodiments may be configured to provide TIR only from surfaces over the controlled
thickness area 613 (e.g., in the embodiments shown in Figures 8A and 8B, generally above
analysis area 608). Optionally, in some embodiments, a cuvette 600 may be configured so as
to provide TIR of light from other surfaces in the cuvette 600; for example, TIR of light from
other surfaces in the cuvette 600 may be provided so as to scatter light at oblique angles,
effective that the light is directed back to the analysis area 608.
    100356]      The design and materials used to construct a cuvette 600 may be selected and
configured so as to provide TIR of light. For example, in some embodiments, configurations
which provide TIR, or which provide increased or enhanced amounts of TIR, include,
without limitation: configurations in which the dimensions of controlled thickness area 613
are compatible with, or which promote, TIR; configurations in which the angle or angles of a
surface 614 or a surface 618 (e.g., with respect to incident light) are compatible with, or
which promote, TIR; configurations in which the shape, texture, or coating of a surface 614
or a surface 618 is compatible with, or which promotes, TIR; configurations in which the
difference between the index of refraction of the material making up a controlled thickness
area 613 and that of the material or space in contact with a surface 614 that forms a boundary
of a controlled thickness area 613 is compatible with, or which promotes, TIR; configurations
in which the difference between the index of refraction of the material making up a support
structure 604 and that of the material or space in contact with a surface 618 that forms a
boundary of a support structure 604 is compatible with, or which promotes, TIR; and other
configurations and designs. In order to enhance the TIR, the first material, within which the
light is to be (internally) reflected should have a higher index than that of the second material
into which the light would pass if it were not internally reflected; since this second material is
usually air, with an index of refraction near 1, this is not usually difficult to ensure. The angle
of incidence must be greater than the critical angle in order to provide TIR. For example,
referring to embodiments shown in Figure 8, the materials making up controlled thickness
area 613 and structures 604 (e.g., the regions outside surfaces 614 and 618) should have an
index of refraction that is greater than that of air. In embodiments where TIR is desired
within a layer 800, the material of the layer 800 should have a lower index of refraction than
that of controlled thickness area 613 to ensure TIR occurs at the walls illustrated in Figure
8A, 8B, and 8D. In alternative embodiments, the material of a layer 800 may have an index
                                                -95
14606381_1

of refraction that is higher than the index of refraction of the material of controlled thickness
area 613, which will create TIR at that boundary (between a layer 800 and a controlled
thickness area 613) effective that the angles and materials may be adjusted so as to optimize
the trans-illumination component of light directed at a sample in an analysis area 608.
     100357]    In embodiments, a surface 614 or 618 may be coated or treated so as to affect
or reduce reflectance (whether PIR or TIR) at the surface. In embodiments, a surface 614 or
618 may be coated or treated so as to reduce light leakage out of the surface. For example,
even where a surface 614 or 618 is compatible with, or enhances the amount of, TIR, some
light may also be transmitted or refracted out of the surface 614 or 618. A light-absorbing
coating or material may be placed or applied to such a surface 614 or 618, or to a portion or
portions thereof, in order to reduce the amount of stray light leaking from a cuvette 600. Such
a light-absorbing coating may be, for example, a dye, an ink, a paint, a surface treatment, a
black or colored tape, or other coating or surface treatment. In embodiments, a black or other
light-absorbing solid material may be placed against or adjacent to a surface 614 or 618 to
provide an optically absorbent surface.
     1003581    Optionally, in some embodiments, a cuvette 600 may be configured so as not
to provide TIR of light (or to provide only insignificant amounts of TIR), or so as not to
provide PIR (or only insignificant amounts of PIR), from a portion, or portions, of the
cuvette. For example, in some embodiments, a cuvette 600 may be configured so as not to
provide TIR or PIR of light (or to provide only insignificant amounts of TIR or PIR) from the
support structures 604. Optionally, in some embodiments, a cuvette 600 may be configured
so as not to provide TIR or PIR of light (or to provide only insignificant amounts of TIR or
PIR) from a surface 618. Configurations which do not provide TIR or PIR, or which provide
only insignificant amounts of TIR or PIR, include, without limitation: configurations in
which the dimensions of controlled thickness area 613 are incompatible with, or do not
promote, TIR or PIR; configurations in which the angle or angles of a surface 614 or a
surface 618 (e.g., with respect to incident light) are incompatible with, or do not promote,
TIR or PIR; configurations in which the shape, texture, or coating of a surface 614 or a
surface 618 is incompatible with, or does not promote, TIR or PIR; configurations in which
the difference between the index of refraction of the material making up a controlled
thickness area 613 and that of the material or space in contact with a surface 614 that forms a
boundary of a controlled thickness area 613 is incompatible with, or does not promote, TIR
or PIR; configurations in which the difference between the index of refraction of the material
making up a support structure 604 and that of the material or space in contact with a surface
                                                -96
14606381_1

618 that forms a boundary of a support structure 604 is incompatible with, or does not
promote, TIR or PIR; and other configurations and designs.
     100359]     Optionally, in some embodiments a reflective material may be placed at, or
attached to, a surface 614 or a surface 618. Such a reflective material may be, for example, a
metal such as silver, or gold, or aluminum; may be a dielectric, such as magnesium or
calcium fluoride, or other salt or metal oxide; or other reflective material. Typically, such a
reflective coating may be very thin (e.g., may be less than about 0.1 micron, or may be up to
about 100 microns thick). Optionally, a reflective material (e.g., a reflective coating) may be
placed at, or attached to, only surface 614. Optionally, a reflective material may be placed at,
or attached to, only surface 618. Optionally, surface 618 may be treated to be black so as to
be light absorbing. In other embodiments, a surface 614 may be treated to be black so as to be
light absorbing. Some embodiments may select the width of the controlled thickness area
613 to be wider than the analysis area 608. For some embodiments using laser illumination,
the layer 800 may be removed or be light transmitting as the laser illumination is sufficiently
focused so as not to require blackout between analysis areas 608.
     100360]     By way of example and not limitation, the use of PIR, TIR, or both, can also
enable light traveling along path 820 from adjacent areas to be directed into the analysis area
608. As shown in Figures 8A, 8B, and 8D, light traveling along path 820 is reflected towards
analysis area 608, and light traveling along path 825 undergoes multiple reflections as it
travels within cuvette 600 and ultimately to analysis area 608. As shown, light traveling along
path 820 in Figure 8B undergoes multiple reflections as it travels within cuvette 600 and
ultimately to analysis area 608. As illustrated in Figure 8B, such reflections may be PIR or
may be TIR. Under traditional terminology, the illumination shown in Figure 8A by light
traveling along paths 820 and 825, and the illumination shown in Figure 8B by light traveling
along path 820, is trans-illumination. The illumination shown in Figures 8A and 8B by light
traveling along paths 830 shows light coming directly from the ringlight and not by way of
TIR: this is epi-illumination. The combination of both types of light components from a light
source located below the sample (or only one side of the sample) allows for improved
performance as compared to sources that can only provide one of those lighting components.
This is particularly useful for dark field microscopy.
     100361]     One non-limiting example of the use of the embodiments shown in Figures
8A-8D is dark field illumination to measure scatter properties of cells in the sample. Dark
field microscopy is an established method that has been used mainly as a contrast-enhancing
technique. In dark field microscopy, the image background is fully dark since only the light
                                               -97
14606381_1

scattered or reflected by the sample is imaged. Quantitative dark field microscopy has not
been used to measure scatter properties of cells in a manner comparable to the use of
traditional "side scatter" parameter in flow cytometers.
     100362]    From the hardware perspective, illumination for dark field microscopy is
desired to be oblique, i.e. no rays of light from the illumination light source should be able to
enter the objective without contacting the sample first. By way of example and not
limitation, illumination should be at a wavelength that does not excite any other fluorophores
already present in the sample. Optionally, this illumination allows for the use of high
numerical aperture (NA) lenses for imaging. By way of example and not limitation, for
traditional lens sizes associated with optical microscopes, the NA may be at least about 0.3.
Optionally, the NA is at least 0.4. Optionally, the NA is at least 0.5. Optionally, some
embodiments may use oil immersion objective lenses to obtain a desired NA, particularly
when lens size is limited below a certain level.
     100363]    Traditional methods for dark field illumination have used trans-illumination,
where the sample is between the imaging lens and dark field light source. Thus, in this
traditional arrangement, the detection and illumination components are not on the same side
of the sample. The traditional epi-illumination methods (where the imaging lens/objective
and the light source are on the same side of the sample) require the use of specially
manufactured objectives and typically do not allow the use of high NA objectives, thus
limiting the capabilities of the whole system.
     100364]    By contrast, at least some embodiments of dark field illumination systems
described herein have the following attributes. In terms of hardware, the scheme of the
embodiments of Figures 8A - 8D is "epi" in that the ringlight used for dark field illumination
is on the same side of the sample as the objective. This can be desirable from the system
perspective, although alternative embodiments with light sources on the other side may be
used alone or in combination with the embodiments described herein. In one non-limiting
example, the ringlight is designed such that the LEDs or lasers of the light source 654 are all
in the same plane and have the same orientation (light sources in the same horizontal plane
and directing light upwards). Some embodiments may have light in the sample plane but
directing light in a non-parallel manner, such as but not limited to a cone-like manner. Some
embodiments may have light in different planes but directing light in the same orientation.
Some embodiments may have light in different planes but directing light in a non-parallel
manner, such as but not limited to a cone-like manner. In some embodiments, the light is
reflected by a toroidal mirror 652 to achieve oblique illumination of the sample.
                                                -98
14606381_1

     100365]     In addition to the optical properties of the ringlight and the toroidal reflector,
the optical properties of the cuvette 600 shown in the embodiments of Figures 8A-8D also
significantly affects dark field illumination. In this embodiment, the cytometry cuvette 600 is
designed such that light coming from the ringlight 650 falls directly on the sample; but in
addition to this, light is also "reflected" on the sample from features of the cuvette so as to
emulate "trans" illumination. This reflection can be by way of TIR or true reflection.
     100366]     Note that any trans-illumination scheme allows one to measure forward
scattered light from a sample whereas an epi-scheme allows one to measure only the back
scattered light from the sample. Forward scattered light is generally two orders of magnitude
greater in intensity than the back-scattered light. Thus, use of trans-illumination allows the
use of much lower illumination intensities and reduces harmful side-effects on the sample.
     100367]     As seen in the embodiment of Figure 8A, the ringlight 650 (or other source of
illumination) and cuvette 600 provide a system that can be tuned such that the intensities of
trans and epi-illumination are adjusted for improved performance over traditional epi
illumination. Similarly, the ringlight 650 (or other illumination source) and cuvette 600
provide a system in the embodiment of Figure 8B that can be tuned such that the intensities
of trans and epi-illumination are adjusted for improved performance over traditional epi
illumination. This tuning can be achieved by virtue of the materials chosen (e.g., for their
optical properties) and design of cuvette geometry to control angles and extent of total
internal reflection.
     100368]     As shown in Figure 8C, features 802 may alter the path of incident light, and
so be used to enhance both trans-illumination and epi-illumination. As shown in Figure 8D,
the shape and configuration of surfaces 674, 676, and 678 may alter the path of incident light
(e.g. transverse illumination), and so be used to provide or enhance trans-illumination, epi
illumination, or both.
     100369]     Figure 8E provides a schematic representation of transport of a cuvette 600
from a sample preparation location to a sample observation location near an optical detector
D. As indicated in the figure, a sample holder 600 may be moved from one location to a
location adjacent to, or on, a detector D. A detector D may include a stage configured to
receive, hold, and position a cuvette 600. Sample may be added to the sample holder via
entry ports 602 (e.g., six entry ports 602 are shown in the example shown in Figure 8E), and
may then be in a position for optical observation and measurement within an analysis area
608 (not shown, as interior to the surfaces (e.g., of a support structure 604) of cuvette 600
shown in Figure 8E. Sample that is held within an analysis area 608 may be illuminated, and
                                                 -99
14606381_1

may be detected by a detector D. In embodiments, a detector D may be configured to make
qualitative observations or images, and in embodiments a detector D may be configured to
make quantitative observations or images.
    100370]     A detector D as shown in Figure 8E may comprise, or be part of, a cytometry
unit or cytometry module. Such a cytometry unit or cytometry module may comprise an
independent unit or module for sample analysis. In embodiments, other analysis capabilities
and devices may be included in a detector D, or may be housed together with, or may be
configured for use in conjunction with, a detector D. In embodiments, systems for sample
analysis as disclosed herein may comprise such a cytometry unit or cytometry module, e.g.,
comprising a detector D used to analyze a sample in a cuvette 600. In embodiments, systems
for sample analysis as disclosed herein may comprise such a cytometry unit or cytometry
module and other units or modules which provide other analysis capabilities and devices in
addition to that of a detector D used to analyze a sample in a cuvette 600. In such systems,
such other units or modules may be housed together with, or may be configured for use in
conjunction with, a detector D. Such other analysis capabilities and devices may be applied to
a sample; for example, such analysis capabilities and devices may be used to analyze the
sample or portion of a sample that is present in a cuvette 600. In embodiments, such analysis
capabilities and devices may be used to analyze a different portion of the sample present in a
cuvette 600 (e.g., a sample may be divided into two or more aliquots, where one aliquot is
placed in a cuvette 600 for cytometric analysis, and one or more other aliquots are analyzed
by other devices housed in, or near, or operated in conjunction with a cytometry unit or
cytometry module. Thus, for example, independent of the analysis performed by such a
cytometry module, a sample (or portion thereof) may be measured or analyzed in a chemical
analysis unit, or in a nucleic acid analysis unit, or in a protein analysis unit (e.g., a unit using
antibodies or other specifically binding molecules to analyze a sample), or other such unit or
combination of units and capabilities. Such analysis may include analysis for small molecules
and elements present in a sample (e.g., by a general chemistry unit); analysis for nucleic acid
molecules present in a sample (e.g., by a nucleic acid unit); analysis for proteins or antibody
reactive antigens present in a sample (e.g., by an enzyme-linked immunosorptive assay
(ELISA) unit); or combinations of these. In addition, systems as illustrated in Figure 8E and
as discussed herein may include a controller to control and schedule operations in one or
more of the units or modules.
    100371]     Figure 8F provides a further, detailed schematic representation of system
including a transport mechanism for transporting a cuvette from a sample preparation
                                              -100
14606381_1

location to a sample observation location near an optical detector D. A system such as a
system of the embodiment shown in Figure 8F may include multiple sample analysis
modules, which may be configured to work independently, or, in embodiments, may be
configured to work together. The system shown in Figure 8F includes a single cytometry unit
707, with a detector D; in embodiments, samples (or portions thereof) analyzed in any or all
of the analysis modules 701, 702,703,704, 705, and 706 may be transported to cytometry
module 707, for observation and measurement by detector D. Independent of the analysis
performed by cytometry module 707, a sample (or portion thereof) may be measured or
analyzed in a chemical analysis unit 715. Such analysis in a chemical analysis unit 715 may
include analysis for small molecules and elements present in a sample (e.g., by a general
chemistry unit); analysis for nucleic acid molecules present in a sample (e.g., by a nucleic
acid unit); analysis for proteins or antibody-reactive antigens present in a sample (e.g., by an
ELISA assay unit); or combinations of these.
     100372]    Systems as illustrated in Figure 8F may include a controller to control and
schedule operations in one or more of the modules 701-707. Samples may be loaded onto
sample holders or other elements for analysis in systems as illustrated in the example shown
in Figure 8E. Such systems, and modules of such systems, include, e.g., sample handling
systems 708; pipettes for obtaining, moving, and aliquotting samples, including suction-type
pipettes 711 and positive displacement pipettes 712; centrifuges 713; spectrophotometers
714; chemical analysis units 715; photomultiplier tubes (PMTs) 716; cartridges 717 for
holding disposable supplies and tools, such as, e.g., pipette tips and other tips; and other
elements. Modules and other elements may be supported by a rack 709 or other support
structure. Samples, disposables, tools, and other elements may be transported within a
module, and may be transported between modules (e.g., between a module 701-706 and a
cytometry module 707).
     100373]    Figures 8E and 8F show that the sample holder such as cuvette 600 may be
transported from one location (such as where sample preparation may occur) and then to
another location (such as to the detector D as seen in Figures 8E and 8F). The cuvette 600
does not release fluids into or onto the detector D, but instead is self-contained unit that keeps
all of the sample therein. There may be one or more, two or more, or three or more locations
on or near to the detector D on which there is transparent surface on which the cuvette 600 or
other sample holder can engage to provide a transparent interface for sample signal detection
to occur. Elements of Figure 8F and further disclosure regarding such elements and their
                                              -101
14606381_1

uses can be found in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/769,779, which is hereby fully
incorporated by reference herein.
Dark field
     100374]    At least some embodiments herein include a dark field illumination source and
cuvette. The relevant features of the cuvette 600 relate to designing the cuvette dimensions
and optical materials and the geometry of the cuvette. The cuvette increases the extent of
dark field illumination through reflection (e.g., through TIR, or PIR, or both). In one
embodiment, the system may simultaneously use trans dark field and epi dark field
illumination of a sample.
     100375]    In some embodiments disclosed herein, the cuvette 600 combined with the
light source 650 enables trans and epi-illumination using a physical system in the epi
configuration (i.e., with the light source and the objective on the same side of sample). The
basic cuvette is designed to contain the biological sample and present it for visualization. In
embodiments, the cover portion 612 may have a specific design. It is known that different
materials may have different indices of refraction; material having a desired index of
refraction may be selected for use in fabricating a cover portion 612, or a base support 620, or
other elements and components of a cuvette 600 and associated elements and components.
For example, in some embodiments, a cover portion 612 or a base support 620 may be made
of glass. For example, in some embodiments, a cover portion 612 or a base support 620 may
be made of quartz. For example, in some embodiments, a cover portion 612 or a base support
620 may be made of an acrylic, or a clear polymer (e.g., a cyclo-olefin, a polycarbonate, a
polystyrene, a polyethylene, a polyurethane, a polyvinyl chloride, or other polymer or co
polymer), or other transparent material.
     100376]    One can design the material of the top cover portion 612 to facilitate
illumination and image collection. In embodiments, to illuminate a sample, the light source
650 may be a ringlight 650 (i.e., may be circular), may have light sources 654 position in a
discrete or continuous pattern, and may use a curved reflector 652 to direct light to the
sample.
     100377]    In dark field microscopy, the sample is illuminated by oblique rays. In dark
field microscopy, the light going into the microscope optics is light scattered by the sample,
allowing the measurement of the scatter properties of cells, particles, and other objects and
structures in the sample. If no cells, particles, structures, or other objects are present in the
sample, then the dark field image is black.
                                               -102
14606381_1

     100378]     In the present non-limiting example, the reflector 652 and LED 654 of the
ringlight 650 are designed to reflect light so that a minimum fraction of light goes directly
back into the objective as non-specific background. The system is designed to direct light by
TIR at cuvette surfaces back into the analysis area 608. Light reflected from a surface,
whether by TIR or other reflection, is thus directed to illuminate a sample in the analysis area
608. The cells, particles, and structures in the sample in analysis area 608 receive light
directly from the ringlight from underneath the cell (i.e., via epi-illumination). In addition, as
disclosed herein, light coming from the top surfaces (reflected) is also directed to the analysis
area 608 (i.e., via trans-illumination).
     [00379]     Thus, according to the systems and methods disclosed herein, with the
ringlight 650 in the same position, light may be directed to illuminate analysis area 608 from
two directions (both epi-illumination and trans-illumination) from a single ringlight source. In
embodiments, this illumination is all oblique illumination. One can control the relative
strengths of the two light components by design of the cuvette and material used for the
cuvette.
     100380]     This dark field illumination is different from conventional dark field. For
example, in embodiments disclosed herein, dark field illumination is provided by light
reflected at a cuvette surface by TIR. By way of non-limiting example, in embodiments, a
system as disclosed herein may use a reflective layer on the backside of certain surfaces of
the cover portion 612 to reflect all of the light. By way of non-limiting example, in
embodiments, a system as disclosed herein may use a reflective layer on the backside of
certain surfaces of a cuvette 600 to reflect all of the light. Some embodiments may use a full
or selectively reflective background.
     100381]     For example, in embodiments, it is desirable to direct the light at an oblique
angle, which keeps illumination dark field. In some embodiments light sources 654 may
direct light at an angle, and thus may not require or may not use the reflector 652. The
reflector 652 may improve manufacturability of the light source 654 since all lights are in the
same plane, directed in the same direction. Optionally, the angled light sources 654 may also
be used in place of or in combination with a reflector.
     100382]     It should be understood that even though the light intensity of a trans
illumination component of illumination may be, e.g., 10 times weaker than a corresponding
epi-illumination component, the intensity of light scattered from the cells or other objects in
the sample due to trans-illumination may be 200 times stronger. That is, where scatter from
an amount of epi-illumination is compared to scatter from the same amount of trans
                                               -103
14606381_1

illumination, the intensity of light scattered due to trans-illumination may be 200 times
stronger than the light scattered by epi-illumination of cells or other objects in the sample.
Thus, a small amount of trans-illumination can significantly enhance the light scatter from
cells.
     100383]     With epi-illumination alone, light collected by an objective is only that light
reflected from a sample. However, diffraction is a substantial component of scatter and the
use of trans-illumination provides for some amount diffraction (e.g., light diffracted by the
sample). However, the light collected from epi-illumination does not include light diffracted
by the sample (without reflection of the light back towards the light source following
diffraction). Thus, when using trans and epi-illumination there are reflective, refractive, and
diffractive components to the light collected by an objective. Traditional methods use all
trans dark field illumination which takes a significant amount of space to configure, due to
the placement of optical components on both sides of the sample. In contrast, systems and
methods as disclosed herein provide both epi-illumination and trans-illumination using
optical elements configured for epi-illumination alone. The embodiments disclosed herein
may obtain the space savings of an epi-illumination configuration while providing the
benefits of both epi- and trans-illumination of the sample.
     100384]     Designing the sample holder and the light source together can enable an epi
illumination configuration to increase the amount of trans-illumination of the sample, and in
particular may provide uniform trans-illumination. Some embodiments may use mirrored
surfaces. Some embodiments use TIR, which can be tuned to create the desired trans
illumination, including trans-illumination that is uniform and at oblique angles into the
analysis area 608 for dark field illumination of the sample. A cuvette 600 may be configured
so as to provide trans-illumination of an analysis area 608 solely from a light source in an
epi-illumination configuration using reflection, e.g., using TIR or PIR, or both. In one non
limiting example, a thicker cover portion 612 allows the light undergoing TIR (or PIR, or
both) to reflect back into the target area 608. Additionally, the systems and methods disclosed
herein not only provide light that, due to TIR (or PIR, or both), comes back into an analysis
area 608. but light that comes back into an analysis area 608 uniformly. The embodiments of
Figures 8A, 8B, and 8D have certain surfaces at certain angles, have certain black surface(s),
and certain reflective surface(s) so that the light comes back uniformly to an analysis area
608 effective to provide uniform trans-illumination of a sample in an analysis area 608.
Optionally, one could put a fully reflective surface on a top (such as but not limited to a flat
cover portion 612 as shown in Figures 7A and 7B, and optionally over select areas of a top of
                                               -104
14606381_1

an area 613 of Figures 8A, 8B, and 8C). In contrast, light traveling within traditional
hardware may undergo some reflection, including possibly some TIR (or PIR, or both), but
the light may not come back into the area 608.
     1003851     By way of non-limiting example, embodiments disclosed herein take an
imaging based platform and instead of using a high complication, high cost system which
may for example have 16 laser light sources, the present embodiment leverages a more
integrated detection system to be able to image and identify the differentials of cells and
types in a sample.
     100386]     In one non-limiting example, the combination of all these different types of
information is useful and effective to achieve the desired goals of the analysis. This may
include quantitative measurements or qualitative measurements linked to quantitative
measurements, or images linked to quantitative measurements. The methods and systems
disclosed herein provide different channels of fluorescence where each channel may have one
or more specific molecular markers targeted (i.e., quantitative information). The methods and
systems disclosed herein may include, and may be used with, microscopy, embodiments
herein may provide the ability to observe and measure the background that staining forms
inside the cell (e.g., whether it is in the cytoplasm, is it concentrated on the surface, in the
nucleus, or elsewhere) that can link image or qualitative information that is generated to
quantitative measurements that are generated. In this manner, the linkage of the original
images that created the quantitative results are available for further analysis if it turns out that
the quantitative measurements trigger alarms or meet thresholds the suggest further analysis
is desired. Embodiments herein can interrogate background images and information that
staining creates in a cell in a sample within an analysis area 608. Such images and
information allow the determination of whether or not the staining is in the cell, e.g., in the
cytoplasm, in the nucleus, in the membrane, or other organelle or cellular location.
     100387]     In some embodiments of the methods and systems disclosed herein,
combinations of the quantitative scatter properties of the cell, the shape of the cell, or the size
of the cell may be observed and measured, and used to identify or characterize a sample. In
some embodiments of the methods and systems disclosed herein, the physical properties,
optical properties, and bio/biochemical properties of a sample or portion thereof may be
observed and may be measured all in the same device at the same time. All such
measurements and observations can be combined in a programmable processor or other
processing system to link the various types of information to achieve the goals of the assays
(e.g., to achieve a clinical goal of the assays).
                                                -105
14606381_1

     1003881    Although traditional devices may be suitable for one or the other kind of
observation or measurement, they are not suitable for both epi-illumination and trans
illumination from a single light source; there is also no linkage between such different types
of information. For example, in some embodiments disclosed herein, where image
information that generated the quantitative measurements is retrievable, the systems and
method may be used for tissue morphology measurements. Optionally, the system can be
applied to pap smear, which is more similar to traditional cytology. It can be extended to
anything done using traditional microscopy. In urine, at least some of the present
embodiments can look at and analyze crystals and not just cells. One can look at crystals of
inorganic salts and chemicals from urine samples that had created certain quantitative
readings on one portion of a graph. In addition, one can look at and analyze cells and
particles present in blood, including analysis of different types and populations of blood cells,
such as but not limited what may be seen in Figure 1A where different regions of data are
circled. Image information for certain data regions can be retrieved to further analyze the
underlying cell images that created the measurements plotted on the graph or chart.
     100389]    Some embodiments herein combine the imaging features with the pathology
features. For example, tissue preparation may occur inside a device or system configured to
include the optical elements disclosed herein (a system may be, or include, for example, a
module or multiple modules configures for optical and other analysis of a sample), and such
prepared material can be imaged in this platform. Then the image or analysis may be sent to
servers to do image analysis, to do diagnosis, or to perform digital pathology effective to aid
or enable a pathologist to analyze a sample.
     100390]    Embodiments of methods, systems and devices as disclosed herein, including,
e.g., systems and devices illustrated in Figures 8C and 8D, provide a wide range of cytometry
capabilities which may be applied together to analyze a sample. Such cytometry capabilities
include cytometric imaging such as is typically confined to microscopy; such microscopic
imaging and image analysis of biological samples is provided by the devices, systems, and
methods disclosed herein. In addition, the systems and devices as disclosed herein are
configured to provide spectrophotometric analysis of biological samples. Such image analysis
includes dark field, brightfield, and other image analysis. Novel and improved methods for
applying both epi-illumination and trans-illumination from a single light source are disclosed,
which allow more sensitive and accurate images and analysis of blood samples. In
conjunction with the methods disclosed herein, separate measurements regarding RBCs,
WBCs, and sub-categories of these may be obtained. Image and spectrophotometric analysis
                                              -106
14606381_1

as disclosed herein may be used to identify and quantify different populations of WBCs
useful for the characterization of a blood sample and for the diagnosis of many clinical
conditions. Devices and systems as disclosed herein may be used to provide clinical reports
which include general chemical analysis information, nucleic acid-based analysis
information, antibody- (or protein or epitope)-based analysis information, spectrophotometric
analysis information, and in addition provide images of the cells and samples analyzed. The
ability to produce such information and to provide such reports, including images as well as
other clinical information, is believed to provide novel and unexpected capabilities and
results.
     100391]    In addition, this information, and these reports, may be produced in a short
amount of time (e.g., in less than an hour, or less than 50 minutes, or less than 40 minutes, or
less than 30 minutes, or other short amount of time). In addition, this information, and these
reports, may be produced from small samples, e.g., small samples of blood or urine. Such
small samples may have sizes of no more than about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or
less than about 150 ptL, or less than about 100 tL, or less than about 75 pL, or less than about
50 pL, or less than about 40     L, or less than about 20 pL, or less than about 10 pL, or other
small volume. In embodiments where a sample is a blood sample, such small sample may be
collected from a finger-stick. Typically, only a small amount of blood is collected from a
finger-stick (e.g., the amount of blood may be about 250 pL or less, or about 200 pL or less,
or about 150 pL or less, or about 100 pL or less, or about 50 pL or less, or about 25 pL or
less, or other small amount).
     100392]    Clinical reports which include cytometric information and images, as
disclosed herein (including images, scatter plots, and other optical and imaging information),
and which also include general chemical analysis information, nucleic acid-based analysis
information, antibody- (or protein or epitope)-based analysis information, and
spectrophotometric analysis information, are believed to provide broad and clinically rich
information useful for the diagnosis and characterization of many clinical conditions, and to
provide advantages over the art. Such reports may be prepared rapidly at a point of service
(or point of care) location, and may be rapidly communicated (e.g, electronically by wireless,
land-line, optical fiber, or other communication link) to a pathologist or other clinical expert
for analysis and interpretation. Such expert analysis and interpretation may then in turn be
rapidly communicated (e.g, electronically by wireless, land-line, optical fiber, or other
communication link) to a clinician caring for the subject, or back to the point of service (or
point of care) location, or both, for rapid feedback. Such rapid feedback enables timely
                                                -107
14606381_1

treatment, if necessary, or prevents unnecessary treatment, by providing information and
analysis based on samples which may be acquired, may be analyzed, or both, at a point of
service or point of care location. Such rapid analysis, reporting, and feedback provides
advantages over time-consuming methods, and, by allowing timely treatment and by avoiding
unnecessary treatment, may provide more effective, more efficient, and less costly clinical
services and treatment. Such more time-consuming methods which may be obviated by the
devices, systems and methods disclosed herein include, but are not limited to: delay and
inconvenience due to a subject being required to travel to a laboratory or clinic remote from
the subject's home, and remote from the clinician entrusted with the care of the subject;
delays and possible sample degradation due to transport of a sample from a collection
location to a location where the sample may be analyzed; delays due to transmission of the
results of such analysis to a pathologist or other expert; delays due to transmission of an
expert opinion to the subject's clinician; delays in transmission of clinician diagnosis and
treatment of the subject following transmission of an expert opinion to the clinician. These
delays, inconveniences, and possible sample degradation may be reduced or eliminated by
use of the methods, devices, and systems disclosed herein.
    100393]     Embodiments of systems and devices as illustrated in Figures 6A, 6B, 7, 8A,
8B, 8C, and 8D, and other figures and as disclosed herein, provide cytometry capabilities in a
compact format, including in compact formats for use with one or more other sample analysis
capabilities. Applicants disclose herein novel devices and systems which include the novel
cytometry capabilities as disclosed herein in devices and systems along with other sample
analysis capabilities. For example, Applicants disclose herein devices and systems which
provide novel cytometry capabilities as disclosed herein in conjunction with devices and
systems for sample analysis by a general chemistry unit; in conjunction with devices and
systems for sample analysis by a nucleic acid analysis unit; in conjunction with devices and
systems for sample analysis using antibody assays (e.g., ELISA) unit); and combinations of
these. Thus, a sample processing device as disclosed herein may be configured to perform a
plurality of assays on a sample. Such a sample may be a small sample.
    100394]     In embodiments, all sample assay actions or steps are performed on a single
sample. In embodiments, all sample assay actions or steps are performed by a single device
or system and may be performed within a housing of a single device. Such systems and
devices including cytometry, particularly cytometry which provides image analysis as well as
spectrophotometric or other optical analysis in a single unit, are believed to be novel and
unexpected. Providing systems and devices including cytometry, particularly cytometry
                                              -108
14606381_1

which provides image analysis as well as spectrophotometric or other optical analysis in a
single unit, is believed to provide advantages previously unavailable in the art.
     100395]     Embodiments of systems and devices as illustrated in Figures 6A, 6B, 7, 8A,
8B, 8C, and 8D, and other figures and as disclosed herein, provide cytometry capabilities in a
portable format, where such devices and systems may be housed in enclosures small enough
for easy transport from one location to another. For example, such devices and systems may
be readily transported for use at a point of care location (e.g., a doctor's office, a clinic, a
hospital, a clinical laboratory, or other location). For example, such devices and systems may
be readily transported for use at a point of service location (in addition to such points of care
locations discussed above, e.g., a pharmacy, a supermarket, or other retail or service
location). A point of service location may include, for example, any location where a subject
may receive a service (e.g. testing, monitoring, treatment, diagnosis, guidance, sample
collection, ID verification, medical services, non-medical services, etc.). Point of service
locations include, without limitation, a subject's home, a subject's business, the location of a
healthcare provider (e.g., doctor), hospitals, emergency rooms, operating rooms, clinics,
health care professionals' offices, laboratories, retailers [e.g. pharmacies (e.g., retail
pharmacy, clinical pharmacy, hospital pharmacy), drugstores, supermarkets, grocers, etc.],
transportation vehicles (e.g. car, boat, truck, bus, airplane, motorcycle, ambulance, mobile
unit, fire engine/truck, emergency vehicle, law enforcement vehicle, police car, or other
vehicle configured to transport a subject from one point to another, etc.), traveling medical
care units, mobile units, schools, day-care centers, security screening locations, combat
locations, health assisted living residences, government offices, office buildings, tents, bodily
fluid sample acquisition sites (e.g. blood collection centers), sites at or near an entrance to a
location that a subject may wish to access, sites on or near a device that a subject may wish to
access (e.g., the location of a computer if the subject wishes to access the computer), a
location where a sample processing device receives a sample, or any other point of service
location described elsewhere herein.
Esoteric Cytometry and Specialty Cytometry Markers
     100396]     Many traditional advanced or esoteric cytometric assays require a traditional
system to measure a large number of markers on cells; typically, these markers are measured
simultaneously. The general approach in the field has been tied to high capability instruments
including, for example, six or more lasers and 18 different PMT tubes to measure all of these
markers simultaneously. However, in many clinical settings, simultaneous measurements of
multiple markers are not required. In many clinical requirements, for example, one is
                                               -109
14606381_1

interested in seeing how many cells are positive for one marker, or how many are positive for
a combination of two or three markers, or other such combination of a few markers. Some
embodiments herein provide for multiple combinations of staining schemes where one may
have a set of, for example, 10 markers, where one can combine them in sets of 3-4 or 5-6
markers where one can combine them such that even if combining two markers in the same
color, some embodiments of the present system can de-convolute the images and information
in order to determine which signal came from which marker. This allows some embodiments
of the present system to reduce the hardware requirements in terms of the number of light
sources, the number of channels used for sample analysis, and other simplifications and
efficiencies. Thus, using subsets of a number of markers, or using or measuring markers in
non-simultaneous manner in a pre-determined pairing can be useful to enable esoteric
cytometry. For example, some markers may be considered to be "gating" markers; such
markers are measured first, and if the results of such initial measurements are negative (e.g.,
the markers are not present, or are present only in low amounts, in a sample), then
measurements using other, follow-on markers may not be needed. In embodiments such non
simultaneous methods and systems may reduce the sample volume required for analysis, and
may reduce the amounts of markers needed for analysis (e.g., if a follow-on marker is
typically used in only a small fraction of samples analyzed).
     100397]     It should be understood that the use of imaging for cytometric analyses of
samples, such as blood or urine samples, enables one to obtain an actual cell count, and so
may be more accurate than traditional cytometry methods which do not include such
measurements. Imaging of samples, including imaging of cells (and particles or structures) in
a sample can actually be more accurate than other methods, such as traditional flow
cytometry. For example, traditional flow cytometry gating does not allow for actual counts.
The gating in flow cytometry is subjective and thus this can vary from system to system. In
addition, traditional flow cytometry does not provide images of cells in a sample.
     100398]     Some embodiments herein may also gate, but the gating is based
algorithmically based on various factors including but not limited to patient health.
Classification means is trained on a population of patients knowing if they are healthy or
diseased. Some embodiments here can flag a patient that is abnormal and flagging it for
review. Self-leaming gating can determine if different gating is desired based on information
conveyed regarding the patient health. Thus, the gating for the sample for some
embodiments disclosed herein is done algorithmically, possibly with a programmable
processor, and the gating changes based on patient health.
                                              -110
14606381_1

     100399]     In embodiments of methods and systems for imaging, one may want to
minimize the amount and complexity of hardware required, and one may wish to re-use some
or all of the sample if possible, in order to minimize the sample volume required. Thus, the
more capability one can extract from the imaging of a sample, the better in terms maximizing
the information obtained from a sample, and where possible, from smaller amounts of
sample. Thus, the more information one can get to differentiate different cell types from a
minimum number of pictures, the more one may minimize the sample volume required.
     1004001     Optionally, in one non-limiting example, the cuvette for use in the microscopy
stage can be configured as follows (with reference to the embodiments and elements shown
in Figures 7, 8A, and 8B). A middle channel layer comprises a core of thin plastic membrane
800 with pressure-sensitive-adhesive (psa) on both sides. One side adheres to the window
layer 606 and the other side to the molded-top-layer cover portion 612. The core is an
extruded film that is black in color, primarily due to optical reasons of preventing light scatter
and optical cross-talk between the different liquid channels. The thickness of the core
membrane preferably is uniform along its length and width, and may be formed, for example,
from an extruded film of black PET or black HDPE (polyethylene). The psa sub-layers on
both sides are preferably as thin as possible for preserving the tight and uniform dimensions
of the overall liquid channel (e.g., analysis area 608), yet are preferably thick enough to
provide a good fluidic seal around the liquid channel. In embodiments, the psa adhesives
useful for such sample holders are acrylic in nature and have high adhesion strength for low
surface-energy plastics. The liquid channels, ports and other alignment features on the middle
layer may be fabricated using laser-cutting or die-cutting processes. In embodiments, heating
of material to near, but not above, the melting point of the material may be used in the
fabrication of cuvettes, and cuvette chambers. In embodiments, diffusion bonding may be
used in the fabrication of cuvettes, and cuvette chambers (e.g., cuvette components may be
heated to their materials' glass transition temperature, allowing or enhancing diffusion of
material between previously separate components of a cuvette); for example, acrylic to
acrylic bonds may be made using diffusion bonding. In embodiments, ultrasonic welding may
be used in the fabrication of cuvettes, and cuvette chambers. For example, bonding methods
including, but not limited to use of heating, use of adhesives, use of diffusion bonding, use of
ultrasonic welding, and other suitable techniques and methods, may be used to bond a support
structure to a cover portion of a cuvette (e.g., a support structure 606 to a cover portion 612
of Figs. 7A and 7B). Sonically welding cuvettes, such as but not limited to ultrasonically
welding them, may involve make multiple layers of the cuvette and putting them together,
                                               -111
14606381_1

rather than molding or using adhesives for the multiple layers. In embodiments, various
techniques may be combined for manufacturing of the cuvette such as but not limited to
ultrasonically welding certain layers while using adhesives or other bonding techniques on
other layers. Optionally, some embodiments may use one technique to bond perimeter
portions of the cuvette while another technique may be used to bond structures or layers that
will come in contact with sample or liquids when the cuvette is in use.
     1004011     A channel in a cuvette may have an entry port (e.g., an entry port 602 as
shown in Fig. 6A) for filling, and may have two or more entry ports 602 for filling. An entry
port 602 may have any shape or configuration suitable for transfer of sample into the interior
of the channel. In embodiments, an entry port may have a round, or oval, or other shape
suitable to allow a pipette (e.g., a pipette with a conical or similarly tapered end-portion) to
transfer a fluid sample to and into a channel. For example, a round entry port may be suitable
to accept a tip of a conical pipette where the pipette is oriented substantially perpendicular to
the plane of the entry port. For example, an oval entry port may be suitable to accept a tip of a
conical pipette where the pipette is oriented at an angle from the perpendicular to the plane of
the entry port. For example, an entry port may be configured to allow space for an end
portion of a pipette (e.g., a pipette tip) to be positioned over the entry port effective that fluid
exiting the pipette tip falls or otherwise flows into the entry port; in embodiments, a space
may remain between at least a portion of the entry port and at least a portion of the pipette tip.
In embodiments, an entry port may be configured to contact or otherwise engage with at least
one portion of the liquid dispensing tip such as but not limited to an end-portion of a pipette
(e.g., a pipette tip) so as to form a seal between the end-portion of the pipette and the walls of
that entry port. In embodiments, an entry port may have an internal taper (e.g., the diameter
or other cross-sectional length of the outer-most portion of an entry port may differ from the
diameter or other cross-sectional length of the inner-most portion of that entry port). In
embodiments of an entry port with an internal taper, the inner diameter or other cross
sectional length of the entry port may be smaller than the diameter or other cross-sectional
length of the outer-most portion of that entry port, effective to complement the taper of a
pipette tip (e.g., a conical pipette tip) positioned in the entry port. In embodiments, a pipette
tip may engage with an entry port effective to prevent fluid (e.g., sample) delivered by the
pipette from flowing out of the channel via the entry port. Optionally, the port in the cuvette
may be sized or otherwise designed to form a seal against at least some portion of the pipette
tip. Optionally, the material may be a hydrophobic material so that liquid only enters the
                                                 -112
14606381_1

cuvette when sufficient force dispenses the liquid from the tip, and not primarily due to any
hydrophilic force.
     1004021      In embodiments, a channel in a cuvette may have a vent effective to allow air
or other gas to flow (e.g., to exit) aiding filling of a channel with sample (e.g., a fluid sample
such as blood, or plasma, or other fluid). In embodiments, an entry port may serve as a vent,
or, in embodiments, a channel may have a vent separate from, and in addition to, an entry
port. In embodiments, a vent may comprise a porous membrane configured to allow passage
of air or gas yet to reduce or prevent evaporation of liquid from the channel (e.g., from a
sample within the channel). Such a vent may be covered with a porous membrane, or may
include a porous membrane at or near the opening of the vent. Porous membranes made with
hydrophobic materials may be more effective to mitigate evaporation from a sample than
porous membranes made with hydrophilic materials. Such a porous membrane may be made
with, e.g., a cyclo-olefin polymer such as Zeonex* or Zeonor * (Zeon Chemicals, Louisville,
KY, USA); polyethylene (PE); polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF); combinations of PE and
PVDF such as Porex* (Porex Corporation, Fairburn, GA, USA); or with other porous
materials and combinations of materials.
     1004031     A channel in a cuvette may be filled, for example, by providing sample to an
entry port of a channel. It will be understood that by "filling a channel" both complete, and
partial, filling of the channel is meant; thus "filling a channel" as used herein refers to filling
a channel, or portion of a channel, whether the channel becomes completely or only partially
filled. A fluid sample may be provided to a channel by gravity flow into the channel, e.g., via
an open entry port. A fluid sample may be drawn into a channel by capillary action; for
example, contact of a drop or portion of sample provided by a pipette tip with a wall of a
channel via an entry port may initiate and provide capillary flow of sample into a channel.
Such a capillary means of filling a channel is more effective, and more readily accomplished,
where the walls of the channel, or at least the interior surfaces of the channel, comprise
hydrophilic materials or coatings. In embodiments, filling a channel may be accomplished
using pressure, where fluid is forced into the channel by application of force (e.g., by
hydraulic or air pressure, which may be supplied by a piston, a pump, compressed gas,
osmotic pressure, or other means). Where a channel is filled by pressure, hydrophobic
materials may be used to form, or coat, the interior walls of the channel. Such hydrophobic
materials (e.g., including acrylics, olefins, cyclo-olefins, and other polymers and plastics)
may provide better optical properties than other (e.g., than some hydrophilic) materials.
Where a channel is to be filled using pressure, a tight seal between a pipette (used to deliver
                                                -113
14606381_1

the fluid, e.g., the sample) and the entry port of the channel may be preferred. Where a
channel is to be filled using pressure, a vent (or vents) configured to allow exit of gas (e.g.,
air) or liquid previously occupying some or all of the channel interior may be provided. Use
of pressure to fill a channel allows for control of the rate and volume of fluid delivered; such
rate and volume control may be greater than the control of rate and volume accomplished
when using capillary or gravity flow to fill a channel.
     1004041      In embodiment as disclosed herein, magnetic elements may be incorporated
into the cuvette (such as but not limited to magnetic pucks or discs, or metal pucks or discs
that may be held by a magnet). For example, such magnetic elements may be included in, or
may comprise, the molded top layer of a sample holder or cuvette. Magnetic elements can be
used to simplify hardware used to transport the cuvette. For example, the handling system can
engage the magnetic features in the cuvette to transport it without having to add an additional
sample handling device.
     1004051      While the invention has been described and illustrated with reference to
certain particular embodiments thereof, those skilled in the art will appreciate that various
adaptations, changes, modifications, substitutions, deletions, or additions of procedures and
protocols may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For
example, different materials may be used to create different reflective surfaces in the cuvette
or other surfaces along a light pathway in the optical system. Optionally, the reflective
surface is selected so that the reflection is only diffusive. Optionally, the reflective surface is
selected so that the reflection is only specular. Some embodiment may use a flat top
illumination scheme as set forth in Coumans, F. A. W., van der Pol, E., & Terstappen, L. W.
M. M. (2012), Flat-top illumination profile in an epifluorescence microscope by dual
microlens arrays. Cytometry, 81A: 324-331. doi: 10.1002/cyto.a.22029, fully incorporated
herein by reference for all purposes.
     100406]      Optionally, some embodiments may have all channels having a bottom surface
in one plane, but due to different channel sizes, have top surfaces in different planes.
Optionally, some embodiments may have channels in different vertical planes. Although
most embodiments herein show imaging in a vertical top-down configuration, it should be
understood that some embodiments may arrange channels in a vertically stacked
configuration and image channels from the side. Some embodiments may use multiple
cuvettes on an imaging platform. For example, although Figure 8E shows a single cuvette
thereon, it is possible to place multiple cuvettes onto the imaging platform for processing in
sequential or simultaneous manner. Although the cuvettes herein are typically shown as
                                               -114
14606381_1

formed from transparent materials, some embodiments may form at least some portions of the
cuvette from non-transparent material. This can be provided to provide improved structural
rigidity to portions of the cuvette and/or optionally, provide different light handling
properties. Optionally, some embodiments may be used with a non-transparent carrier that
engages at least a portion of the cuvette and is moved with the cuvette to an imaging platform
to facilitate handling and/or provide a desired optical effect.
     100407]     Additionally, concentrations, amounts, and other numerical data may be
presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such range format is used
merely for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the
numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range, but also to include all the
individual numerical values or sub-ranges encompassed within that range as if each
numerical value and sub-range is explicitly recited. For example, a size range of about 1 nm
to about 200 nm should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits of about
1 nm and about 200 nm, but also to include individual sizes such as 2 nm, 3 nm, 4 nm, and
sub-ranges such as 10 nm to 50 nm, 20 nm to 100 nm, and other ranges.
     1004081     The publications discussed or cited herein are provided solely for their
disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed
as an admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by
virtue of prior invention. Further, the dates of publication provided may be different from the
actual publication dates which may need to be independently confirmed. All publications
mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the structures
or methods in connection with which the publications are cited.
     100409]     While the above is a complete description of the preferred embodiment of the
present invention, it is possible to use various alternatives, modifications and equivalents.
Therefore, the scope of the present invention should be determined not with reference to the
above description but should, instead, be determined with reference to the appended claims,
along with their full scope of equivalents. Any feature, whether preferred or not, may be
combined with any other feature, whether preferred or not. The appended claims are not to
be interpreted as including means-plus-function limitations, unless such a limitation is
explicitly recited in a given claim using the phrase "means for." It should be understood that
as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of "a,"
"an," and "the" includes plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also,
as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of "in"
includes "in" and "on" unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. As used herein, the term
                                               -115
14606381_1

"or" may include "and/or"; thus, the meaning "or" includes both the conjunctive and
disjunctive unless the context expressly dictates otherwise.
    1004101     This document contains material subject to copyright protection. The
copyright owner (Applicant herein) has no objection to facsimile reproduction of the patent
documents and disclosures, as they appear in the US Patent and Trademark Office patent file
or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice shall
apply: Copyright 2013 and 2014 Theranos, Inc.
                                             -116
14606381 1

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1. A system for analyzing a sample, the system comprising:
                 a sample holder comprising a sample chamber configured to hold said sample,
at least a portion of said sample holder comprising an optically transmissive material, said
optically transmissive material comprising an optically transmissive surface and a reflective
surface; and
                 an illumination source configured to provide light that illuminates and passes
through said optically transmissive surface;
                 wherein said sample holder is configured effective that said light from said
illumination source simultaneously provides both epi-illumination and trans-illumination to a
sample in the sample holder, where epi-illumination comprises light traveling from said
illumination source to said sample without reflection at a surface of the optically transmissive
material of the sample holder, and where trans-illumination comprises light traveling within
the optically transmissive material and to the sample following at least one reflection from at
least one surface of said optically transmissive material.
                 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the sample holder comprises a cuvette
having an elongated channel configured for holding a sample.
                 3. The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sample holder comprises one or
more optically non-transmissive surfaces.
                 4. The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein said trans-illumination is provided at
least in part by total internal reflection of light at a surface.
                 5. The system of claim 2, wherein said trans-illumination is provided at least
in part by total internal reflection of light within the cuvette.
                 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the sample holder comprises two or more
sample chambers for holding sample.
                 7. The system of claim 2, wherein the cuvette has a rectangular horizontal,
cross-sectional shape.
                 8. The system of claim 2, wherein the cuvette has a circular horizontal, cross
sectional shape.
                                                 -117
14606381_1

                 9. The system of claim 2, wherein the cuvette has a saw tooth vertical cross
sectional shape.
                 10. The system of claim 2, wherein the cuvette has a step-shaped vertical
cross-sectional shape.
                 11. The system of claim 1, wherein said sample holder is movable relative to
said illumination source to a plurality of locations, wherein said optically transmissive
surface of the sample holder may be illuminated by the illumination source at each of said
locations.
                 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said illumination source comprises a
ringlight.
                 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said ringlight is selected from a light
emitting diode (LED)-based ringlight and a laser-based ringlight.
                 14. The system of claim 1, further comprising a support structure comprising
an optically transmissive surface shaped to engage an optically transmissive surface of the
sample holder.
                 15. The system of claim 1, further comprising a compression device
configured to retain the sample holder in a desired location for illumination by the
illumination source.
                 16. The system of claim 1, further comprising a detector configured to image
at least a portion of a channel in the sample holder.
                 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said sample holder comprises an
elongated channel configured to contain at least a portion of the sample, and wherein said
detector is configured to image an entire elongated channel in the sample holder.
                 18. The system of claim 16, wherein the sample holder is configured to hold
the sample in a static, non-flowing manner during imaging.
                                              -118
14606381_1

                 19. The system of claim 16, wherein during imaging, the sample holder is
configured to hold one portion of the sample in a static, non-flowing manner and another
portion in a flowing manner.
                 20. The system of claim 16, wherein said illumination source is movable
relative to the sample holder.
                 21. The system of any one of the foregoing claims wherein during imaging,
the sample holder is configured to hold the sample in a flowing manner.
                 22. The system of claim 16, wherein said sample holder further comprises a
fluid circuit fully confined in the sample holder, and wherein the sample is located in said
fluid circuit, effective that the sample remains separate from said detector.
                 23. The system of claim 22, wherein said sample holder is movable relative to
the detector.
                 24. The system of claim 22, wherein said detector is movable relative to the
sample holder.
                 25. The system of claim 1, wherein said sample holder and said illumination
source comprise at least part of an optical analysis unit, said system further comprising a
clinical analysis unit configured to perform clinical analysis on said sample.
                 26. The system of claim 25, wherein said system is configured to provide an
aliquot of a single sample to each of said optical analysis unit and said clinical analysis unit,
effective that said clinical analysis unit and said optical analysis unit may perform optical
analysis and clinical analysis on portions of a sample at the same time.
                 27. The system of claim 25, wherein said clinical analysis is selected from
general chemical analysis, nucleic acid analysis, and enzyme-linked binding analysis.
                 28. The system of claim 25, comprising a plurality of clinical analysis units,
wherein each clinical analysis unit of said plurality of clinical analysis units is configured to
provide a clinical analysis selected from general chemical analysis, nucleic acid analysis, and
enzyme-linked binding analysis.
                                               -119
14606381_1

                 29. A cuvette comprising a sample chamber configured to hold a sample, at
least a portion of said cuvette comprising an optically transmissive material, said optically
transmissive material comprising an optically transmissive surface and a reflective surface,
wherein said optically transmissive surface and said reflective surface are configured
effective that light passing through the optically transmissive surface simultaneously provides
both epi-illumination and trans-illumination to said sample in the sample chamber, where epi
illumination comprises light traveling from an illumination source to the sample without
reflection at a surface of the optically transmissive material, and where trans-illumination
comprises light traveling within the optically transmissive material and to the sample
following at least one reflection from at least one surface of said optically transmissive
material.
                 30. The cuvette of claim 29, wherein the sample chamber comprises an
elongated channel.
                 31. The cuvette of claim 29, further comprising one or more optically non
transmissive surfaces.
                 32. The cuvette of claim 29, wherein said trans-illumination is provided at
least in part by partial internal reflection of light at a surface.
                 33. The cuvette of claim 29, wherein said trans-illumination is provided at
least in part by total internal reflection of light at a surface.
                 34. The cuvette of claim 29, wherein the sample holder comprises two or
more sample chambers for holding sample.
                 35. The cuvette of claim 29, comprising a cross-sectional shape selected from
rectangular horizontal cross-sectional shape and a circular horizontal cross-sectional shape.
                 36. The cuvette of claim 29, comprising a cross-sectional shape selected from
a saw tooth vertical cross-sectional shape and a step-shaped vertical cross-sectional shape.
                 37. A cuvette comprising a sample chamber having an optically transmissive
floor, said cuvette having an outer surface comprising at least one concave or convex
structure configured to provide mechanical support to the cuvette.
                                                 -120
14606381_1

                 38. The cuvette of claim 37, wherein said at least one concave or convex
structure has a cross-sectional shape selected from rectangular, triangular, circular, and semi
circular.
                39. The cuvette of claim 37, wherein said at least one concave or convex
structure is configured to provide a pathway for internally reflected light within the cuvette.
                40. The cuvette of claim 37, wherein said at least one concave or convex
structure comprises a surface, and wherein said surface is configured to reflect light within
the cuvette.
                41. A method of identifying a cell in a sample containing a plurality of cells,
comprising:
                (a) placing said sample in a sample holder comprising a sample chamber
configured to hold the sample, at least a portion of said sample holder comprising an optically
transmissive material, said optically transmissive material comprising an optically
transmissive surface and a reflective surface, wherein said optically transmissive surface and
said reflective surface are configured effective that light passing through the optically
transmissive surface simultaneously provides both epi-illumination and trans-illumination to
the sample in the sample chamber, where epi-illumination comprises light traveling from said
illumination source to the sample without reflection at a surface of the optically transmissive
material, and where trans-illumination comprises light traveling within the optically
transmissive material and to the sample following at least one reflection from at least one
surface of said optically transmissive material;
                (b) illuminating said sample holder effective to simultaneously provide both
epi-illumination and trans-illumination of the sample; and
                (c) identifying a cell in the sample.
                42. The method of claim 41, wherein said identifying comprises identifying
said cell with a detector configured to image at least a portion of said sample chamber.
                43. The method of claim 42, wherein said sample chamber comprises an
elongated channel.
                                               -121
14606381_1

                44. A method for the measurement of a component of interest in cells of a
cellular population in a sample, comprising:
                a) obtaining a quantitative measurement of a marker present in cells of the
cellular population in the sample;
                b) determining, with the aid of a computer, an approximate amount of cells in
the cellular population present in the sample based on the measurement of part a);
                c) adding an amount of a cell marker to the sample, where the amount of said
cell marker added is based on the results of part b), and wherein the cell marker binds
specifically to the component of interest in cells of the cellular population and is configured
to be readily detectable;
                d) assaying cells in the sample for marker bound to the component of interest;
and
                e) determining the amount of the component of interest in cells of the cellular
population of the sample based on the amount of marker bound to the component of interest.
                45. The method of claim 44, wherein said sample holder comprises a sample
holder selected from the sample holder of claim 29 and the sample holder of claim 37.
                46. A method for focusing a microscope, comprising:
                a) mixing a sample containing an object for microscopic analysis with a
reference particle having a known size, effective to generate a mixture containing the sample
and reference particle;
                b) positioning the mixture of step a) into a light path of a microscope;
                c) exposing the mixture of step a) to a light beam configured to visualize the
reference particle; and
                d) focusing the microscope based on the position of the reference particle
within the mixture or based on the sharpness of the image of the reference particle.
                47. The method of claim 46, wherein said mixture containing the sample and
a reference particle is held within a sample holder selected from the sample holder of claim
29 and the sample holder of claim 37.
                                             -122
14606381_1

                48. A method of identifying a cell in a sample containing a plurality of cells,
comprising:
                (a) assaying a cell of the plurality of cells for at least one of: (i) the presence of
a cell surface antigen; (ii) the amount of a cell surface antigen; or (iii) cell size;
                (b) assaying the cell of (a) for at least one of: (i) nuclear size; or (ii) nuclear
shape; and
                (c) assaying the cell of (a) and (b) for quantitative cell light scatter,
wherein the combination of information from steps (a), (b), and (c) is used to identify the cell
in the sample containing a plurality of cells.
                49. The method of claim 48, wherein said plurality of cells is held within a
        sample holder selected from the sample holder of claim 29 and the sample holder of
        claim 37.
                50. A system for imaging a sample, comprising:
                a sample holder,
                a light source for illuminating an object held within said sample holder,
                an objective lens configured to collect and focus light scattered from an object
held within said sample holder, wherein said scattered light comprises light scattered at a
plurality of scatter angles,
                an optical aperture for passing light from said objective lens, and
                a further lens configured to focus light from said objective lens onto said
optical aperture, wherein said optical aperture is configured to allow only a portion of light
focused by said objective lens to pass through the aperture, whereby said portion of light
allowed to pass through said aperture consists of light scattered at only a portion of said
plurality of scatter angles.
                51. A system for imaging a sample, the system comprising
                a sample vessel containing said sample,
                a stage having a sample vessel receiver with an optically transparent surface;
                                               -123   -

                  a light source for illuminating formed components in the sample through the
stage,
                  wherein the sample vessel has an interface surface configured to engage the
optically transparent surface of the sample vessel receiver whereby the interface surface
conforms to the optically transparent surface without significant distortion of light passing
through the interface surface.
                  52. The system of claim 51, wherein the interface surface of the sample vessel
is formed from a polymer material.
                  53. The system of claim 51, wherein the interface surface of the sample vessel
is formed of a material softer than a material used to form the optically transparent surface of
the sample vessel receiver.
                  54. The system of claim 51, further comprising a compression unit for
applying pressure to conform the interface surface to a shape configured to conform with the
optically transparent surface of the sample vessel receiver.
                  55. The system of claim 51, further comprising a handling unit configured to
be coupled to the sample vessel to facilitate transport of sample vessel on and off the stage,
and increase mechanical rigidity of the sample vessel.
                  56. The system of claim 51, further comprising an opaque handling unit
configured to be coupled to the sample vessel.
                  57. The system of claim 51, where all imaging of the sample without passing
light in a substantially straight line through one surface and out an opposing surface to a
detector.
                  58. The system of claim 51, where the light source is not located on one side
of the sample vessel to deliver light to a detector on an opposite side of the sample vessel.
                  59. A method of determining a contour of an image of an object in an image
containing at least said object, comprising:
         Segmenting a portion of the image of said object;
         Initializing using the segmented portion of the image of the object;
         Growing regions of the image using watershed segmentation;
                                                -124 -

       Determining a region of interest (ROI) with the largest area across all images; and
       Identifying the ROI with the largest area as the final segmentation for the object,
       Thereby determining a contour of an image of the object.
                60. The method of claim 59, wherein said region of interest (ROI) is
       determined by an adaptive thresholding method.
                61. The method of claim 60, wherein said adaptive thresholding method
       comprises setting a first pixel within the image as a foreground pixel if the intensity of
       said first pixel is greater than a threshold amount higher than the mean intensity of
       other pixels in the pixel neighborhood.
                62. The method of claim 59, wherein the image of the object comprises an
image of a cell, and the segmented portion of the image comprises a cell nucleus.
                63. The method of claim 62, wherein said cell has been stained with a nuclear
stain.
                64. The method of claim 63, wherein said nuclear stain is DRAQ5*.
                                                125

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
