                                            Abstract
A device for removing security on content using biometric information includes a memory
configured to store content on which security has been set based on first biometric
information of a user; and a controller configured to obtain second biometric information of
the user, which is of a different type than the first biometric information, and remove the
security on the con tent based on the second biometric information, in response to a user
input for executing the content.

                                                 1
        DEVICE AND METHOD OF SETTING OR REMOVING
                             SECURITY ON CONTENT
[1]       The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
Application No. 2015297203, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
         Technical Field
[1a]        Apparatuses and methods consistent with one or more exemplary embodiments
relate to a device and method of setting or removing security on content, and more
particularly, to a device and method of setting or removing security on content by using
biometric information.
         Background Art
[2]         Biometrics is an authentication method wherein unique biometric information of
an individual, such as a fingerprint, voice, a face, an iris, a structure of sweat glands, and
blood vessels, is extracted and informationized. Characteristics of an individual, such as a
face shape, voice, a fingerprint, and an eyeball, are unable to be illegally used or copied by
another person like in the case of a key or a password, and are rarely changed or lost. Thus,
such characteristics are widely used in security fields.
[3]         Recently, technologies of using biometric information for user authentication have
been developed.
[4]         Accordingly, there is demand for research into methods of setting and removing
security on content by effectively using biometric information.
         Disclosure of Invention Solution to Problem
[5]         One or more exemplary embodiments provide a device and a method of setting or
removing security on content by using a plurality of pieces of biometric information.
         Advantageous Effects of Invention
[6]         The device may store the content after setting security on the content based on the
fingerprint information obtained from the watch type wearable device. According to an
exemplary embodiment, the security set on the content by the user may be removed even
when the user is unable to use the watch type wearable device, for example, even when the
watch type wearable device is stolen, lost, or malfunctions.
[7]         In other words, according to an exemplary embodiment, the security set on the
content may be removed by using the iris information obtained from the glasses type

                                               2
wearable device.
        Brief Description of Drawings
[8]         These and/or other aspects will become apparent and more readily appreciated
from the following description of exemplary embodiments, taken in conjunction with the
accompanying drawings in which:
[9]        FIG. 1 is a diagram for describing a device according to an exemplary
embodiment;
[10]       FIG. 2 is a conceptual diagram of a controller that sets or removes security on
content, according to an exemplary embodiment;
[11]       FIG. 3 is a flowchart of a method of using different biometric information to set
and remove security on content, according to an exemplary embodiment;
[12]       FIG. 4 is a flowchart of a method of setting security on content, according to an
exemplary embodiment;
[13]       FIG. 5 is a flowchart of a method of restricting access to content so as to set
security, according to an exemplary embodiment;
[14]       FIG. 6 is a flowchart of a method of restricting access to content so as to set
security, according to another exemplary embodiment;
[15]       FIG. 7 is a flowchart of a method of encrypting content so as to set security,
according to an exemplary embodiment;
[16]       FIG. 8 is a flowchart of a method of encrypting content so as to set security,
according to another exemplary embodiment;
[17]       FIG. 9 is a flowchart of a method of encrypting content and an encryption key so
as to set security, according to an exemplary embodiment;
[18]       FIGS. 10 through 13 illustrate examples of a user interface (UI) provided to set
security on content;
[19]       FIGS. 14A through 14C are diagrams for describing examples of setting security
on content, according to exemplary embodiments;
[20]       FIG. 15 is a diagram of a database according to an exemplary embodiment;
[21]       FIG. 16 is a flowchart of a method of removing security on content, according to
an exemplary embodiment;
[22]       FIG. 17 is a flowchart of a method of allowing access to content so as to remove
security, according to an exemplary embodiment;

                                                3
[23]       FIG. 18 is a flowchart of a method of allowing access to content so as to remove
security, according to another exemplary embodiment;
[24]       FIG. 19 is a flowchart of a method of decrypting content so as to remove security,
according to an exemplary embodiment;
[25]       FIG. 20 is a flowchart of a method of decrypting content so as to remove security,
according to another exemplary embodiment;
[26]       FIG. 21 is flowchart of a method of decrypting content so as to remove security,
according to another exemplary embodiment;
[27]       FIGS. 22A through 23 illustrate examples of a UI provided to remove security on
content, according to exemplary embodiments;
[28]       FIGS. 24A through 24E are diagrams for describing examples of setting security
on content, according to other exemplary embodiments;
[29]       FIG. 25 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to an exemplary
embodiment;
[30]       FIG. 26 is a flowchart of a method of decrypting content so as to remove security,
according to another exemplary embodiment;
[31]       FIGS. 27A through 28 illustrate examples of a UI provided to decrypt content so
as to remove security, according to exemplary embodiments;
[32]       FIG. 29 is a diagram for describing an example of sharing content between a
plurality of users, according to an exemplary embodiment;
[33]       FIG. 30 is a flowchart of an encrypting method for setting security, according to
an exemplary embodiment;
[34]       FIGS. 31 through 33 are diagrams for describing a method of encrypting content
based on biometric information of a first user, according to an exemplary embodiment;
[35]       FIGS. 34 through 38 are diagrams for describing a method of sharing content by a
plurality of users , according to an exemplary embodiment;
[36]       FIGS. 39 and 40 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according to
exemplary embodiments;
[37]       FIG. 41 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another
exemplary embodiment;
[38]       FIG. 42 is a flowchart of a method of changing a security setting, according to an
exemplary embodiment;

                                                4
[39]       FIG. 43 is a diagram for describing an example of changing a security setting,
according to an exemplary embodiment;
[40]       FIG. 44 is a flowchart of an encrypting method for setting security, according to
an exemplary embodiment;
[41]       FIGS. 45 and 46 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according to
other exemplary embodiments;
[42]       FIG. 47 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another
exemplary embodiment;
[43]       FIGS. 48 through 50 are flowcharts of an encrypting method for setting security,
according to other exemplary embodiments;
[44]       FIGS. 51 through 53 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according
to other exemplary embodiments;
[45]       FIG. 54 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another
exemplary embodiment;
[46]       FIGS. 55 and 56 are flowcharts of an encrypting method for setting security,
according to other exemplary embodiments;
[47]       FIGS. 57 through 59 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according
to other exemplary embodiments;
[48]       FIG. 60 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another
exemplary embodiment;
[49]       FIGS. 61 and 62 are flowcharts of an encrypting method for setting security,
according to other exemplary embodiments;
[50]       FIGS. 63 and 64 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according to
other exemplary embodiments;
[51]       FIG. 65 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another
exemplary embodiment;
[52]       FIGS. 66 and 67 are flowcharts of an encrypting method for setting security,
according to other exemplary embodiments;
[53]       FIGS. 68 and 69 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according to
other exemplary embodiments;
[54]       FIG. 70 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another
exemplary embodiment;

                                                5
[55]       FIG. 71 is a flowchart of a method of setting security on content, according to
another exemplary embodiment;
[56]       FIG. 72 is a flowchart of a method of removing security on content, according to
another exemplary embodiment;
[57]       FIGS. 73 through 78 are diagrams for describing examples of a user input for
executing content, according to exemplary embodiments;
[58]       FIG. 79 is a diagram for describing an example of a device logging in to a server,
according to an exemplary embodiment;
[59]       FIG. 80 is a flowchart of a method of registering, by a device, biometric
information in a server, according to an exemplary embodiment;
[60]       FIG. 81 is a flowchart of a method of registering, by a device, biometric
information in a server, according to another exemplary embodiment;
[61]       FIGS. 82 through 85 are diagrams for describing an example of a UI provided to
register biometric information in a server, according to exemplary embodiments;
[62]       FIGS. 86A and 86B are flowcharts of a method of logging in, by a device, to a
server, according to an exemplary embodiment;
[63]       FIGS. 87 through 88B are diagrams for describing examples of a UI provided for
a device to log in to a server, according to exemplary embodiments;
[64]       FIG. 89 is a flowchart of a method of registering, by a device, biometric
information in a server, according to another exemplary embodiment;
[65]       FIGS. 90 through 94 are diagrams for describing examples of a UI provided to
register biometric information in a server, according to other exemplary embodiments;
[66]       FIGS. 95A and 95B are flowcharts of a method of accessing, by a device, a server,
according to an exemplary embodiment;
[67]       FIGS. 96 through 97B are diagrams for describing examples of a UI provided for
a device to log in to a server, according to other exemplary embodiments;
[68]       FIG. 98 illustrates an example of a UI provided to set security on a lock screen,
according to an exemplary embodiment;
[69]       FIGS. 99 through 100B are diagrams for describing examples of a UI provided to
remove security on a lock screen, according to exemplary embodiments;
[70]       FIGS. 101 and 102 are block diagrams of a device according to exemplary
embodiments; and
[71]       FIG. 103 is a block diagram of a server according to an exemplary embodiment.

                                                 6
          Best Mode for Carrying out the Invention
[71a]       According to a first aspect, the present invention provides a method of providing a
user interface at an electronic device, the method comprising: displaying a registration
screen associated with notification screens for setting biometric login options, each of the
biometric login options corresponding to a respective biometric information category of a
plurality of biometric information categories; obtaining a first piece of biometric information
of a user corresponding to a first biometric information category of the plurality of biometric
information categories using at least one first notification screen of the notification screens;
storing the first piece of biometric information in a memory of the electronic device,
wherein the first piece of biometric information is associated with an identification of the
user based on a password of the user for unlocking the electronic device; obtaining a second
piece of biometric information of the user corresponding to a second biometric information
category of the plurality of biometric information categories using at least one second
notification screen of the notification screens; storing the second piece of biometric
information in the memory of the electronic device, wherein the second piece of biometric
information is associated with the identification of the user based on the password for
unlocking the electronic device; pairing with an external electronic device having a first
biometric module to establish a short-range wireless connection between the electronic
device and the external electronic device; displaying a lock screen for selection from among
first and second biometric login options respectively indicating the first and second
biometric information categories corresponding to the first and second pieces of biometric
information of the user stored in the memory of the electronic device; based on the first
biometric login option being selected from among the first and second biometric login
options displayed with the lock screen, obtaining, based on communicating with the external
electronic device having the first biometric module over the short-range wireless connection,
first input biometric information of the user corresponding to the first biometric information
category; displaying an authentication failure notification screen based on unsuccessful
authentication of the user using the obtained first input biometric information of the user and
the first piece of biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device; based
on the second biometric login option being selected from among the first and second
biometric login options, operating a second biometric module of the electronic device to
obtain second input biometric information corresponding to the second biometric
information category; obtaining, using the second biometric module of the electronic device,

                                                 7
the second input biometric information of the user corresponding to the second biometric
information category; and displaying an unlocked screen based on successful authentication
of the user using the obtained second input biometric information of the user and the second
piece of biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device.
[71b]       According to a second aspect, the present invention provides an electronic device
for providing a user interface, the electronic device comprising: a memory storing
instructions; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to at least: control to
display a registration screen associated with notification screens for setting biometric login
options, each of the biometric login options corresponding to a respective biometric
information category of a plurality of biometric information categories; control to obtain a
first piece of biometric information of a user corresponding to a first biometric information
category of the plurality of biometric information categories using at least one first
notification screen of the notification screens; control to store the first piece of biometric
information in the memory of the electronic device, wherein the first piece of biometric
information is associated with an identification of the user based on a password of the user
for unlocking the electronic device; control to obtain a second piece of biometric
information of the user corresponding to a second biometric information category of the
plurality of biometric information categories using at least one second notification screen of
the notification screens; control to store the second piece of biometric information in the
memory of the electronic device, wherein the second piece of biometric information is
associated with the identification of the user based on the password for unlocking the
electronic device; control to pair with an external electronic device having a first biometric
module to establish a short-range wireless connection between the electronic device and the
external electronic device; control to display a lock screen for selection from among first and
second biometric login options respectively indicating the first and second biometric
information categories corresponding to the first and second pieces of biometric information
of the user stored in the memory of the electronic device; based on the first biometric login
option being selected from among the first and second biometric login options displayed
with the lock screen, control to obtain, based on communicating with the external electronic
device having the first biometric module over the short-range wireless connection, first input
biometric information of the user corresponding to the first biometric information category;
control to display an unlocked screen based on successful authentication of the user using
the obtained first input biometric information of the user and the first piece of biometric

                                                 8
information stored in the memory of the electronic device; control to display an
authentication failure notification screen based on unsuccessful authentication of the user
using the obtained first input biometric information of the user and the first piece of
biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device; based on the second
biometric login option being selected from among the first and second biometric login
options after displaying the authentication failure notification screen, control to operate a
second biometric module of the electronic device to obtain second input biometric
information corresponding to the second biometric information category; control to obtain,
using the second biometric module of the electronic device, the second input biometric
information of the user corresponding to the second biometric information category; and
control to display the unlocked screen based on successful authentication of the user using
the obtained second input biometric information of the user and the second piece of
biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device.
[71c]       According to a third aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory
computer-readable medium storing instructions executable by a processor of an electronic
device to cause the processor to perform operations comprising: controlling to display a
registration screen associated with notification screens for setting biometric login options,
each of the biometric login options corresponding to a respective biometric information
category of a plurality of biometric information categories; controlling to obtain a first piece
of biometric information of a user corresponding to a first biometric information category of
the plurality of biometric information categories using at least one first notification screen of
the notification screens; controlling to store the first piece of biometric information in a
memory of the electronic device, wherein the first piece of biometric information is
associated with an identification of the user based on a password of the user for unlocking
the electronic device; controlling to obtain a second piece of biometric information of the
user corresponding to a second biometric information category of the plurality of biometric
information categories using at least one second notification screen of the notification
screens; controlling to store the second piece of biometric information in the memory of the
electronic device, wherein the second piece of biometric information is associated with the
identification of the user based on the password for unlocking the electronic device;
controlling to pair with an external electronic device having a first biometric module to

                                                8a
establish a short-range wireless connection between the electronic device and the external
electronic device; controlling to display a lock screen for selection from among first and
second biometric login options respectively indicating the first and second biometric
information categories corresponding to the first and second pieces of biometric information
of the user stored in the memory of the electronic device; based on the first biometric login
option being selected from among the first and second biometric login options displayed
with the lock screen; controlling to obtain, based on communicating with the external
electronic device having the first biometric module over the short-range wireless connection,
first input biometric information of the user corresponding to the first biometric information
category; controlling to display an unlocked screen based on successful authentication of the
user using the obtained first input biometric information of the user and the first piece of
biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device; controlling to display
an authentication failure notification screen based on unsuccessful authentication of the user
using the obtained first input biometric information of the user and the first piece of
biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device; based on the second
biometric login option being selected from among the first and second biometric login
options, controlling to operate a second biometric module of the electronic device to obtain
second input biometric information corresponding to the second biometric information
category; controlling to obtain, using the second biometric module of the electronic device,
the second input biometric information of the user corresponding to the second biometric
information category; and controlling to display the unlocked screen based on successful
authentication of the user using the obtained second input biometric information of the user
and the second piece of biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device.
[71d]       According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided an
electronic device for providing a user interface, the electronic device comprising: a memory
storing instructions; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to at least: control
to display a registration screen associated with notification screens for setting biometric
login options, each of the biometric login options corresponding to a respective biometric
information category of a plurality of biometric information categories; control to obtain a
first piece of biometric information of a user corresponding to a first biometric information
category of the plurality of biometric information categories using at least one first
notification screen of the notification screens; control to store the first piece of biometric
information in the memory of the electronic device, wherein the first piece of biometric

                                                8b
information is associated with an identification of the user based on a password of the user
for unlocking the electronic device; control to obtain a second piece of biometric
information of the user corresponding to a second biometric information category of the
plurality of biometric information categories using at least one second notification screen of
the notification screens; control to store the second piece of biometric information in the
memory of the electronic device, wherein the second piece of biometric information is
associated with the identification of the user based on the password for unlocking the
electronic device; control to pair with an external electronic device having a first biometric
module to establish a short-range wireless connection between the electronic device and the
external electronic device; control to display a lock screen for selection from among first and
second biometric login options respectively indicating the first and second biometric
information categories corresponding to the first and second pieces of biometric information
of the user stored in the memory of the electronic device; based on the first biometric login
option being selected from among the first and second biometric login options displayed
with the lock screen, control to obtain, based on communicating with the external electronic
device having the first biometric module over the short-range wireless connection, first input
biometric information of the user corresponding to the first biometric information category;
control to display an authentication failure notification screen based on unsuccessful
authentication of the user using the obtained first input biometric information of the user and
the first piece of biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device; based
on the second biometric login option being selected from among the first and second
biometric login options, control to operate a second biometric module of the electronic
device to obtain second input biometric information corresponding to the second biometric
information category; control to obtain, using the second biometric module of the electronic
device, the second input biometric information of the user corresponding to the second
biometric information category; and control to display an unlocked screen based on
successful authentication of the user using the obtained second input biometric information
of the user and the second piece of biometric information stored in the memory of the
electronic device.
[72]        One or more exemplary embodiments provide a device and a method of setting or
removing security on content by using a plurality of pieces of biometric information.
[73]        Additional aspects may be set forth in part in the description which follows and, in

                                               8c
part, will be apparent from the description, or may be learned by practice of the presented
exemplary embodiments.
[74]        According to an exemplary embodiment, there is provided a device for removing
security on content using biometric information, the device including: a memory configured
to store content on which security has been set based on first biometric information of a user;
and a controller configured to obtain second biometric information of the user, which is of a
different type than the first biometric information, and remove the security on the content
based on the second biometric information, in response to a user input for executing the
content.
[75]        The controller may be configured to remove the security on the content using at
least one of a password and a decryption key when the user is authenticated using the second
biometric information.
[76]        The password may be at least one of a common password that is used for both the
first biometric information and the second biometric information, or a second password that
corresponds to the second biometric information, and when the security on the content is
removed, the controller may be configured to remove restriction on access to the content
using the password.
[77]        The decryption key may be at least one of a common decryption key that is
commonly used for both the first biometric information and the second biometric
information, or a second decryption key that corresponds to the second biometric
information, and when the security on the content is removed, the controller may be
configured to decrypt the content that is encrypted using the decryption key.
[78]     When the decryption key is the second decryption key, the controller may be
configured to decrypt an encrypted first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric
information using the second decryption key, and to decrypt the content using a first
decryption key obtained by decrypting the encrypted first encryption key.
[79]     A second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric information may be
generated using a base second biometric information that is for user authentication and is
pre-stored in the memory.
[80]     The controller may be configured to obtain the second biometric information when
the second biometric information is selected through a screen for selecting one of the first
biometric information and the second biometric information.
[81]     The device may further include a communicator, wherein the second biometric

                                                8d
information may be obtained from at least one external device through the communicator.
[82]     The device may further include at least one biometrics sensor configured to
recognize biometric information of the user, wherein the second biometric information is
obtained from the at least one biometrics sensor.
[83]     According to another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a device for logging
in to a server by using biometric information, the device including: a communicator
configured to communicate with the server located outside the device; and a controller
configured to log in to the server based on first biometric information of a user, and after the
device is logged off from the server, obtain second biometric information of the user, which
is of a different type than the first biometric information, transmit a password related to the
second biometric information to the server through the communicator, and re-log in to the
server when the user is authenticated using the password.
[84]     According to another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a method of
removing security on content using biometric information, the method including: storing
content on which security is set based on first biometric information of a user; obtaining
second biometric information of the user, which is of a different type than the first biometric
information, according to a request to execute the content; and removing the security on the
content based on the second biometric information.
[85]     The removing of the security may include, in response to the user being
authenticated using the second biometric information, removing the security on the content
using at least one of a password and a decryption key.
[86]     The password may be at least one of a common password that is commonly used for
both the first biometric information and the second biometric information, or a second
password that corresponds to the second biometric information, and the removing of the
security includes removing restriction on access to the content using the password.
[87]     The decryption key may be at least one of a common decryption key that is
commonly used for both the first biometric information and the second biometric
information, or a second decryption key that corresponds to the second biometric
information, and the removing of the security may include decrypting the content that is
encrypted using the decryption key.
[88]     When the decryption key is the second decryption key, the decrypting of the content
may include decrypting an encrypted first encryption key corresponding to the first
biometric information using the second decryption key; and decrypting the content by using

                                                8e
a first decryption key obtained by decrypting the encrypted first encryption key.
[89]     A second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric information may be
generated using a base second biometric information that is for user authentication and is
pre-stored in a memory.
[90]      The obtaining of the second biometric information may include, when the second
biometric information is selected through a screen for selecting one of the first biometric
information and the second biometric information, obtaining the second biometric
information.
[91]      The obtaining of the second biometric information may include obtaining the
second biometric information from at least one external device.
[92]      The obtaining of the second biometric information may include obtaining the
second biometric information from at least one biometrics sensor configured to recognize
biometric information of the user.
[93]     According to another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a method of logging
in to a server using biometric information, the method including: logging in to the server
based on first biometric information of a user; obtaining second biometric information of the
user, which is of a different type than the first biometric information, when logged off from
the server; transmitting a password related to the second biometric information to the server;
and re-logging in to the server when the user is authenticated using the password received by
the server.
[94]     According to another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a method of
managing security of a content stored on a first device, the method including obtaining a
first biometric information; receiving from a second device a second biometric information;
and setting security on the content based on the first biometric information and the second
biometric information.
[95]      The setting the security on the content based on the first biometric information and
the second biometric information may include: generating a first encryption key associated
with the first biometric information; encrypting the content using the first encryption key;
receiving a second encryption key associated with the second biometric information; and
encrypting the encrypted content using the second encryption key.
[96]      The setting the security on the content based on the first biometric information and
the second biometric information may include: generating a first encryption key associated
with the first biometric information; receiving a second encryption key associated with the

                                               8f
second biometric information; generating a third encryption key by combining at least a
portion of the first encryption key with at least a portion of the second encryption key; and
encrypting the content using the third encryption key.
[97]     According to another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a method of
managing security of a content stored on a first device, the method including: obtaining a
first biometric information; setting security on the content based on the first biometric
information; receiving from a second device a second biometric information; and removing
the security from the content based on the second biometric information.
[98]     The setting the security on the content based on the first biometric information may
include: generating a first encryption key associated with the first biometric information;
encrypting the content using the first encryption key; generating a first decryption key
corresponding to the first encryption key; and encrypting the first decryption key using a
second encryption key associated with the second biometric information.
        Mode for the Invention
[99]     This application claims priority from Korean Patent Application No. 10-2014
0098588, filed on July 31, 2014, Korean patent Application No. 10-2015-0015584, filed on
January 30, 2015, and Korean Patent Application No. 10-2015-0046861, filed on April 02,
2015, in the Korean Intellectual Property Office, the disclosures of which are incorporated
herein in their entireties by reference.
[100]    One or more exemplary embodiments will now be described more fully with
reference to the accompanying drawings. However, it is understood that exemplary
embodiments may be embodied in many different forms, and should not be construed as
being limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein; rather, these exemplary
embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will
fully convey the concept of one or more exemplary embodiments to those of ordinary skill
in the art. In the following description, well-known functions or constructions are not
described in detail since they would obscure one or more exemplary embodiments with
unnecessary detail, and like reference numerals in the drawings denote like or similar
elements throughout the specification.
[101]    Advantages and features of one or more exemplary embodiments and methods of
accomplishing the same may be understood more readily by reference to the following

                                              9
      detailed description of the exemplary embodiments and the accompanying drawings.
      Also, while describing the one or more exemplary embodiments, detailed descriptions
      about related well-known functions or configurations that may diminish the clarity of
      the points of the present invention are omitted. It will be understood that although the
      terms "first", "second", etc. may be used herein to describe various components, these
      components should not be limited by these terms. These components are only used to
      distinguish one component from another.
[102]   Hereinafter, a device according to one or more exemplary embodiments will be
      described in detail with reference to accompanying drawings. Terms such as "module"
      or "unit" are used only for the purpose of ease of preparation of the specification, and
      thus shall be considered in a broad sense and are not limited to any particular meaning
      or role.
[103]   Examples of a device described herein include a mobile phone, a smart phone, a
      tablet personal computer (PC), a laptop, a digital broadcasting terminal, a personal
      digital assistant (PDA), a portable multimedia player (PMP), and a navigation device.
      However, it will be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art that configurations
      according to one or more exemplary embodiments may also be applied to a fixed
      terminal, such as a digital television (TV) or a desktop computer, except for a case
      when a configuration is applicable only to a mobile terminal.
[104]   In the specification, when a region is "connected" to another region, the regions may
      not only be "directly connected", but may also be "electrically connected" via another
      device therebetween. Also, when a region "includes" an element, the region may
      further include another element instead of excluding the other element, otherwise dif
      ferently stated.
[105]   As used herein, the term "and/or" includes any and all combinations of one or more
      of the associated listed items. Expressions such as "at least one of," when preceding a
      list of elements, modify the entire list of elements and do not modify the individual
      elements of the list.
[106]   Terms used herein will be first described together with brief description of one or
      more exemplary embodiments.
[107]   A device according to an exemplary embodiment may set security on content by
      using biometric information. The device may set security on content by using certain
      biometric information (first biometric information), and remove the security on the
      content by using another biometric information (second biometric information)
      different from the biometric information (the first biometric information) used to set
      the security.
[108]   Throughout the specification, biometric information may denote information for
      identifying each individual, such as a fingerprint or an iris, which is detectable from a

                                             10
      body of each individual.
[109]   Examples of the biometric information include a fingerprint, voice, a face, an iris,
      palm lines, vein distribution, a retina, a movement pattern such as a gait, an electro
      cardiogram (ECG), and a palm pattern, but are not limited thereto.
[110]   Examples of content include text (for example, work-related documents, memos,
      emails, text messages, and electronic books), still images (for example, photographs
      and images), moving images (for example, video on demand (VOD), TV programs,
      user-created content (UCC), YouTube videos, music videos, and movies), application
      execution files, voice files, and web pages, but are not limited thereto. For example,
      the content may be a group of certain files stored in a device, i.e., a folder indicating a
      location where files are classified and stored. The folder may include another folder or
      a file. In other words, the term "content" may have a wide meaning including certain
      data or a file.
[111]   Throughout the specification, setting security on content may mean that access to
      content is restricted, and removing security on content may mean restriction of access
      to content is removed. Alternatively, the setting or removing of the security on the
      content may mean that the content is encrypted or decrypted.
[112]   For example, restricting access to content may mean that at least one of executing,
      editing, copying, and deleting of the content is restricted by using a password while
      setting security on the content. Also, removing restriction on access to content may
      mean that at least one of executing, editing, copying, and deleting of the content is
      allowed when a password obtained when setting security on the content and a
      password obtained when removing the security on the content match each other. Alter
      natively, restricting access to content may mean that at least one of reference in
      formation of the content, a file name of the content, reference information of folder
      including the content, and a folder name is encrypted such that the content is not
      found. Here, reference information may be information indicating a path or address (an
      index node (inode) number or the like) for accessing a certain file or a folder in a file
      system.
[113]   As another example, encrypting content may mean that the content is converted to be
      non-meaningful, for example, to ciphertext. The ciphertext is obtained by converting
      the content by using a certain algorithm for security. In detail, encryption means
      converting certain information to ciphertext by using an encryption key, such as a
      certain bit string, and decryption means restoring the converted information by using a
      decryption key. Throughout the specification, an encryption key may mean data (for
      example, a certain bit string) obtained by processing biometric information, instead of
      the biometric information itself, which is used to encrypt certain content.
[114]   Methods of setting or removing security on content by using biometric information

                                             11
      will be described in detail later with reference to accompanying drawings.
[115]   Throughout the specification, second biometric information distinguished from first
      biometric information may be a different type from the first biometric information. For
      example, the first biometric information may be fingerprint information and the second
      biometric information may be iris information. The second biometric information dis
      tinguished from the first biometric information may be the same type as the first
      biometric information. For example, the first and second biometric information may
      both be fingerprint information, but may be fingerprint information obtained from
      different fingers of the same user or obtained from fingers of different users. Alter
      natively, the second biometric information distinguished from the first biometric in
      formation may be biometric information obtained from biometrics modules provided in
      different devices. Alternatively, the second biometric information distinguished from
      the first biometric information may be biometric information obtained from different
      biometrics modules provided in one device. Alternatively, the second biometric in
      formation distinguished from the first biometric information may be biometric in
      formation obtained from one biometrics module provided in one device.
[116]   Throughout the specification, a biometrics module may be a module that may obtain
      certain biometric information from a body of a person. The biometrics module may
      include a sensor for sensing biometric information of a person. For example, the
      biometrics module may include a fingerprint sensor or a palm pattern sensor, but is not
      limited thereto.
[117]   For example, the biometrics module may include a camera. The camera may
      photograph a face of a person or an iris of a person.
[118]   Alternatively, the biometrics module may include a microphone for obtaining voice
      of a person. The biometrics module described above is only an example, and thus is
      not limited thereto.
[119]   According to an exemplary embodiment, when a device has set security on certain
      content by using fingerprint information, the device may remove the security on the
      certain content by using not only the fingerprint information, but also iris information
      that is different biometric information.
[120]   Accordingly, even if the device is unable to obtain the fingerprint information used to
      set the security on the certain content, for example a biometrics module used to obtain
      the fingerprint information, is unable to be used due to theft, loss, or malfunction, the
      security on the certain content may be removed by using a biometrics module for
      obtaining other biometric information, such as the iris information.
[121]   In other words, according to an exemplary embodiment, despite security being set on
      certain content by using fingerprint information, if a user loses or does not currently
      have a biometrics module used to obtain the fingerprint information, the user may still

                                              12
      access the certain content on which the security is set.
[122]   One or more exemplary embodiments will now be described in detail with reference
      to accompanying drawings.
[123]   FIG. 1 is a diagram for describing a device 100 according to an exemplary em
      bodiment.
[124]   Referring to FIG. 1, a user may own a plurality of devices, such as the device 100
      (for example, a smart phone), a watch type wearable device 401, a glasses type
      wearable device 402. At this time, the watch type wearable device 401 may include a
      module for obtaining fingerprint information 10. The glasses type wearable device 402
      may include a module for obtaining iris information 12. The device 100 may receive,
      which a communication unit, the fingerprint information 10 and the iris information 12
      from the watch type wearable device 401 and the glasses type wearable device 402,
      which are paired with the device 100.
[125]   In order to protect content c 10, for example, an identification (ID) card, stored in the
      device 100., the user may set security on the content c 10 by using the fingerprint in
      formation 10.
[126]   The device 100 may store the content c 10 after setting security on the content c 10
      based on the fingerprint information 10 obtained from the watch type wearable device
      401, and may later remove the security on the content c 10 based on the fingerprint in
      formation 10 obtained from the watch type wearable device 401.
[127]   However, the user may want to remove the security on the content c 10 under a
      situation when the watch type wearable device 401 is not usable.
[128]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the security set on the content c 10 by the
      user may be removed even when the user is unable to use the watch type wearable
      device 401, for example, even when the watch type wearable device 401 is stolen, lost,
      or malfunctions.
[129]   In other words, according to an exemplary embodiment, the security set on the
      content c 10 may be removed by using the iris information 12 obtained from the glasses
      type wearable device 402.
[130]   FIG. 2 is a conceptual diagram of a controller 130 that sets or removes security on
      content, according to an exemplary embodiment.
[131]   Referring to FIG. 2, the controller 130 of the device 100 may include functional
      modules, such as a biometric information obtainer 131, a biometric information reviser
      132,. a feature information extractor 133, a feature information matcher 134, a content
      securer 135, and a biometric information requester 136. The functional modules
      according to an exemplary embodiment are classified for convenience of description,
      and thus at least of the functional modules may be omitted or changed, or at least two
      of the functional modules may be combined. The functional modules may be

                                             13
      configured as hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software. Alter
      natively, a part of the functional module may be configured as hardware and the other
      part of the functional module may be configured as software.
[132]   Referring to FIG. 2, the controller 130 may be in a registration mode 201 for reg
      istering biometric information of the user, or in an authentication mode 202 for authen
      ticating the user by using the registered biometric information.
[133]   According to an exemplary embodiment, when the controller 130 is in the reg
      istration mode 201, the biometric information obtainer 131 may obtain the biometric
      information of the user from a sensing unit 140 of FIG. 102 or an audio-video (AV)
      input unit 160 of FIG. 102, described in further detail below. Alternatively, the
      biometric information obtainer 131 may receive biometric infonnation from the watch
      type and glasses type wearable devices 401 and 402 through a communication unit 150
      of FIG. 101, described in further detail below.
[134]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the biometric information reviser 132 may
      obtain revised biometric information by revising the obtained biometric information.
      For example, when it is determined that the biometric infonnation (for example, a fin
      gerprint image, an iris image, a vein image, or a face image) has a distorted shape or a
      region having low resolution, the biometric information reviser 132 may perform an
      image processor by using statistical data or an image processing function such that the
      distorted shape or the region having low resolution is revised or restored. When the
      quality of the biometric infonnation is excellent, an operation of the biometric in
      formation reviser 132 may be omitted.
[135]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the feature information extractor 133 may
      extract feature information from the biometric information that is revised or not
      revised.
[136]   For example, when the biometric information is fingerprint infonnation, the feature
      information extractor 133 may extract feature information including at least one
      feature point called minutiae from the fingerprint information. The minutiae may
      include feature points indicating a bifurcation point, an end point, a core, and a delta.
      Also, the minutiae may include feature points indicating ridges and directions or
      shapes of valleys between the ridges. In this case, the feature information may be a
      template in which the feature points are arranged in a pre-set format (or frame or bit
      string).
[137]   As another example, when the biometric information is iris information, the feature
      information extractor 133 may extract a unique pattern of an iris. In this case, the
      feature information may be an iris template in which the unique pattern of the iris is
      arranged in a template. Alternatively, when the biometric information is vein in
      formation, the feature information extractor 133 may extract a unique pattern of veins.

                                             14
      In this case, the feature information may be a vein template in which the unique pattern
      of the veins is arranged in a template.
[138]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 may store the feature in
      formation extracted by the feature information extractor 133 in a memory 170 so as to
      use the feature information as biometric information that is a base for user authen
      tication. Hereinafter, the biometric information that is a base will also be referred to as
      base biometric information. Also, the controller 130 may store templates of fingerprint
      information, voice information, face information, iris information palm line in
      formation, vein information, retina information, movement pattern information, and
      ECG information in the memory 170 to be used as feature information of the base
      biometric information. The feature information of the biometric information stored in
      the memory 170 may be registered to be used as the base biometric information for
      user authentication.
[139]   The controller 130 may be in the authentication mode 202 while feature information
      of a plurality of pieces of base biometric information is registered in the memory 170.
[140]   When the controller 130 is in the authentication mode 202, the biometric information
      obtainer 131 may obtain the biometric information of the user from the sensing unit
       140 or the AV input unit 160. Alternatively, the biometric information obtainer 131
      may receive the biometric information from the watch type and glasses type wearable
      devices 401 and 402 through the communication unit 150.
[141]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the biometric information reviser 132 may
      obtain the revised biometric information by revising the obtained biometric in
      formation.
[142]   The feature information extractor 133 may extract the feature information from the
      biometric information that is revised or not revised. The feature information matcher
       134 may match the feature information extracted by the feature information extractor
      133 and the feature information of the base biometric information pre-stored in the
      memory 170. Then, the feature information matcher 134 may calculate, as a matching
      result, a matching score indicating a degree the two pieces of feature information
      match each other. The matching score may be calculated, for example, according to
      statistic data or probability function while considering differences, directions, or ar
      rangement similarities between feature points of a feature template of the obtained
      biometric information and feature points of a feature template of the base biometric in
      formation.
[143]   The feature information matcher 134 may compare the matching score and a certain
      threshold value, and when the matching score is equal to or higher than the certain
      threshold value, may determine that user authentication has succeeded. Here, the
      certain threshold value may be pre-set by a manufacturer of the device 100, a provider

                                             15
      of an application installed in the device 100, or a provider of an operating system. Al
      ternatively, the certain threshold value may be assigned by the user through a user
      interface (UI). Meanwhile, the user may set a threshold value for each of a plurality of
      pieces of biometric information.
[144]   When the user authentication has succeeded, the content securer 135 may set or
      remove security on content.
[145]   For example, a content access restrictor/allower 135-1 of the content securer 135 may
      restrict or allow access to content. Also, a content encryptor/decryptor 135-2 of the
      content securer 135 may encrypt or decrypt content. Alternatively, both the content
      access restrictor/allower 135-1 and the content encryptor/decryptor may be used to set
      or remove security on content.
[146]   According to an exemplary embodiment, when the user authentication fails, the
      biometric information requester 136 may re-request the biometric information of the
      user. For example, the controller 130 may transmit a signal requesting the biometric in
      formation of the user to the watch type or glasses type wearable device 401 or 402. In
      response to the signal, the watch type or glasses type wearable device 401 or 402 may
      provide a notification screen for re-requesting the biometric information. When the
      biometric information is input, the watch type or glasses type wearable device 401 or
      402 may transmit the input biometric information to the device 100. Alternatively, in
      response to the signal, the watch type or glasses type wearable device 401 or 402 may
      transmit previously input biometric information to the device 100 again. Upon
      receiving the biometric information again, the device 100 may try to authenticate the
      user by using the obtained biometric information.
[147]   FIG. 3 is a flowchart of a method of using different biometric information to set and
      remove security on content, according to an exemplary embodiment.
[148]   Referring to FIG. 3, in operation S301, the controller 130 according to an exemplary
      embodiment may set security on content by using first biometric information.
[149]   As shown in FIG. 1. the controller 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      set security on the content c1O by using the fingerprint information 10 obtained by the
      watch type wearable device 401. Here, the content c 10 may be data related to personal
      information of the user, such as an ID card, but is not limited thereto.
[150]   For example, the watch type wearable device 401 may include a module for
      obtaining biometric information (hereinafter, referred to as biometrics module). For
      example, referring to FIG. 1, the watch type wearable device 401 may include a
      module for recognizing a fingerprint of a finger.
[151]   Referring back to FIG. 3, in operation S302, the controller 130 may remove the
      security set on the content by using second biometric information.
[152]   As shown in FIG. 1, the controller 130 may remove the security set on the content

                                             16
        10 by using the iris information 12 obtained by the glasses type wearable device 402.
      As such, the controller 130 may remove the security set on the content by using the iris
      infonnation 12 instead of the fingerprint information 10 that is used to set security on
      the content c10.
[153]   A method of removing, by the controller 130, the security on the content by using the
      iris information 12 will be described in detail later.
[154]   In FIG. 1, the device 10 obtains the fingerprint information 10 and the iris in
      formation 12 from the watch type and glasses type wearable devices 401 and 402,
      which are external devices, but according to another exemplary embodiment, the
      device 100 may obtain at least one of the fingerprint information 10 and the iris in
      formation 12 from at least one biometrics module provided in the device 100. For
      example, the device 100 may obtain both the fingerprint information 10 and the iris in
      fornation 12 from biometric modules provided in the device 10, instead of an external
      device.
[155]   FIG. 4 is a flowchart of a method of setting security on content, according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[156]   In operation S401, the controller 130 may obtain first biometric information of a
      user.
[157]   In operation S402, the controller 130 may authenticate the user by using the first
      biometric information.
[158]   The user may be authenticated by matching feature information of the first biometric
      information and feature information of base first biometric information pre-stored in
      the memory 170. When a matching score calculated as a matching result is equal to or
      higher than a certain threshold value, the controller 130 may determine that user au
      thentication has succeeded.
[159]   However, if the user authentication fails, the controller 130 may display a noti
      fication screen notifying failure, for example on a display unit 121 of FIG. 102.
[160]   In operation S403, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may set security on content by using a security key.
[161]   The security key may be a password or an encryption key.
[162]   The password may be a common password or a password corresponding to biometric
      information. The common password can be commonly used to restrict access to
      content regardless of a type of biometric information. The password corresponding to
      biometric information can be used for a certain type of biometric information. Thus,
      according to an exemplary embodiment, when there are a plurality of pieces of
      biometric information used for user authentication, there may be a plurality of
      passwords corresponding to the plurality of pieces of biometric information.
[163]   The encryption key may be a common encryption key or an encryption key corre-

                                               17
      sponding to biometric information. The common encryption key can be commonly
      used to encode content regardless of a type of biometric information. The common en
      cryption key may be generated by using feature information of a plurality of pieces of
      base biometric information. The encryption key corresponding to biometric in
      formation may be used for a certain type of biometric information. Thus, according to
      an exemplary embodiment, when there are a plurality of pieces of biometric in
      formation used for user authentication, there may be a plurality of encryption keys cor
      responding to the plurality of pieces of biometric information. The encryption key may
      be generated by using feature information of each of the plurality of pieces of
      biometric information.
[164]   According to an exemplary embodiment, when the security key is a password, a
      security key used to set security on content and a security key used to remove the
      security on the content may be the same.
[165]   According to an exemplary embodiment, a security key used to set security on
      content and a security key used to remove the security on the content may be different
      from each other. When the security key is an encryption key, an encryption key used to
      set security on content and a decryption key used to remove the security on the content
      may be different from each other.
[166]   The encryption key and the decryption key may be the same when, for example, a
      value output by using a function and factor values of the function, which are used to
      generate the encryption key, is used as the decryption key.
[167]   The encryption key and the decryption key may be different from each other when,
      for example, a public key and a private key are generated together based on an output
      value (for example, a seed value) of a function while using the function and factor
      values of the function, which are used to encrypt content, to decrypt the content. At
      this time, the public key may be used as the encryption key and the private key may be
      used as the decryption key. In the current exemplary embodiment, a security key used
      to set security on content and a security key used to remove security on content are
      both commonly referred to as a security key, but it would be obvious to one of
      ordinary skill in the art that a security key used to set security on content and a security
      key used to remove security on content may have different values according to
      exemplary embodiments.
[168]   A method of obtaining a security key, such as a password or an encryption key, will
      be described in detail later.
[169]   FIG. 5 is a flowchart of a method of restricting access to content in order to set
      security, according to an exemplary embodiment.
[170]   In operation S501, the controller 130 may obtain first biometric information of a
      user.

                                             18
[171]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 may receive the first
      biometric information from an external device through the communication unit 150.
      Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the first biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[172]   In operation S502, the controller 130 may authenticate the user by using the first
      biometric information.
[173]   The user may be authenticated by matching feature information of the first biometric
      information and feature information of base first biometric information pre-stored in
      the memory 170. When a matching score calculated as a matching result is equal to or
      higher than a certain threshold value, the controller 130 may determine that user au
      thentication has succeeded.
[174]   When the user authentication fails, the controller 130 may display a notification
      screen notifying failure on the display unit 121.
[175]   In operation S503. when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may obtain a common password. The common password may be commonly used to
      restrict access to content regardless of a type of biometric information. For example,
      the common password may be a value obtained from among a plurality of values pre
      stored in the memory 170. Alternatively, the common password may be a value
      randomly generated by the controller 130. Alternatively, the common password may
      be a value generated by the controller 130 by using at least one piece of base biometric
      information. For example, the common password may be a value generated by using a
      logic operation or combination result of feature information of base biometric in
      formation as a factor of a certain function.
[176]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the common password may be generated
      after the user authentication has succeeded. Alternatively, the common password may
      be generated before the user authentication is performed. For example, when feature
      information of base biometric information is stored in the memory 170 in the reg
      istration mode 201, the common password using the feature information of the base
      biometric information may be pre-generated and stored.
[177]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the common password may be stored in the
      memory 170, an external server, a wearable device, or a third device.
[178]   In operation S504, the controller 130 may restrict access to content by using the
      common password.
[179]   FIG. 6 is a flowchart of a method of restricting access to content in order to set
      security, according to another exemplary embodiment.
[180]   In operation S601, the controller 130 may obtain first biometric information of a
      user.
[181]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 may receive the first

                                            19
      biometric information from an external device through the communication unit 150.
      Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the first biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[182]   In operation S602, the controller 130 may authenticate the user by using the first
      biometric information.
[183]   In operation S603, when user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 may
      obtain a first password corresponding to the first biometric information. Also, the
      controller 130 may obtain a second password corresponding to second biometric in
      formation. Passwords corresponding to biometric information may have different
      values according to types of biometric information. For example, the first password
      corresponding to the first biometric information and the second password corre
      sponding to the second biometric information may have different values.
[184]   Meanwhile, when the user pre-sets biometric information to be used to remove
      security on content, the controller 130 may obtain a password corresponding to the pre
      set biometric information.
[185]   A password corresponding to biometric information may be, for example, a value
      obtained, by the controller 130, from among a plurality of values pre-stored in the
      memory 170. Alternatively, a password corresponding to biometric information may
      be value randomly generated by the controller 130. Alternatively, a password corre
      sponding to biometric information may be a value generated, by the controller 130, by
      using pre-stored base biometric information corresponding to the biometric in
      formation. For example, a password corresponding to biometric information may be a
      value generated by using at least a part of feature information of the pre-stored base
      biometric information as a factor of a certain function.
[186]   According to an exemplary embodiment, a password corresponding to biometric in
      formation may be generated after user authentication has succeeded. Alternatively, a
      password corresponding to biometric information may be generated before user au
      thentication is performed. For example, in the registration mode 201, when feature in
      formation of base biometric information is stored in the memory 170, a password cor
      responding to the base biometric information may be pre-generated by using the
      feature information of the base biometric information.
[187]   According to an exemplary embodiment, a password corresponding to biometric in
      formation may be stored in the memory 170, an external server, a wearable device, or a
      third device.
[188]   In operation S604, the controller 130 may restrict access to content by using at least
      one of the first password corresponding to the first biometric information and the
      second password corresponding to the second biometric information.
[189]   FIG. 7 is a flowchart of a method of encrypting content so as to set security,

                                            20
      according to an exemplary embodiment.
[190]   In operation S701, the controller 130 may obtain first biometric information of a
      user.
[191]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 may receive the first
      biometric information from an external device through the communication unit 150.
      Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the first biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[192]   In operation S702, the controller 130 may authenticate the user by using the first
      biometric information.
[193]   The user may be authenticated by matching feature information of the first biometric
      information and feature information of pre-stored base first biometric information. The
      controller 130 may determine that user authentication has succeeded when a matching
      score obtained as a matching result is equal to or higher than a certain threshold value.
[194]    According to an exemplary embodiment, when it is determined that the user authen
      tication failed, the controller 130 may display a notification screen indicating a failure
      on the display unit 121.
[195]   In operation S703, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may obtain a common encryption key. The common encryption key may be commonly
      used to encrypt content regardless of a type of biometric information. For example, the
      common encryption key may be a value generated, by the controller 130, by using at
      least one piece of feature information from among a plurality of pieces of base
      biometric information. The common encryption key may be generated after the user
      authentication has succeeded. Alternatively, the common encryption key may be
      generated before the user authentication is performed. For example, in the registration
      mode 201, when feature information of base biometric information is stored in the
      memory 170, a common encryption key may be pre-generated by using the feature in
      formation of the base biometric information.
[196]    According to an exemplary embodiment, a method of generating, by the controller
      130, a common encryption key by using a plurality of pieces of base biometric in
      formation may include the following operations.
[197]   The controller 130 may determine a value generated by using feature information of
      a plurality of pieces of base biometric information as factors of a certain function (for
      example, a cryptographic hash function), as an encryption key. Alternatively, some of
      the feature information may be used as the factors of the certain function. However, a
      method of generating an encryption key by using base biometric information is not
      limited thereto and may vary.
[198]   For example, a certain operation (for example, an XOR operation) may be applied to
      the feature information by using a pre-set value of a certain length (for example, 128

                                            21
      bits), and only a value corTesponding to a certain length of the result value may be de
      termined as an encryption key. Alternatively, password based key derivation function 2
      (PBKDF2) may be used.
[199]   According to an exemplary embodiment, a result value of a function differs when a
      factor (feature information) of the function is different, and a function having a
      condition in which the factor is unable to be derived from the result value may be used
      as a function for generating an encryption key.
[200]   Next, in operation S704, the controller 130 may encrypt content by using the
      connon encryption key.
[201]   FIG. 8 is a flowchart of a method of encrypting content so as to set security,
      according to another exemplary embodiment.
[202]   In operation S801, the controller 130 may obtain first biometric information of a
      user.
[203]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 may receive the first
      biometric information from an external device through the communication unit 150.
      Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the first biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[204]   In operation S802, the controller 130 may authenticate the user by using the first
      biometric information.
[205]   The user may be authenticated by matching feature information of the first biometric
      information and feature information of pre-stored base first biometric information. The
      controller 130 may determine that user authentication has succeeded when a matching
      score obtained as a matching result is equal to or higher than a certain threshold value.
[206]   According to an exemplary embodiment, if it is determined that the user authen
      tication failed, the controller 130 may display a notification screen indicating a failure,
      for example on the display unit 121.
[207]   In operation S803, when user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 may
      obtain a first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. Also, the
      controller 130 may obtain a second encryption key corresponding to second biometric
      information. Encryption keys corresponding to biometric information may be different
      according to types of biometric information. For example, the first encryption key cor
      responding to the first biometric information and the second encryption key corre
      sponding to the second biometric information may have different values.
[208]   Meanwhile, when the user pre-sets biometric information to be used to remove
      security on content, the controller 130 may obtain a password corresponding to the pre
      set biometric information.
[209]   An encryption key corresponding to biometric information may be a value generated
      by using base biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170. An encryption key

                                            22
      corresponding to biometric information may be generated after user authentication has
      succeeded. Alternatively, an encryption key corresponding to biometric information
      may be generated before the user authentication is performed. For example, in the reg
      istration mode 201, when feature information of base biometric information is stored in
      the memory 170, an encryption key corresponding to the base biometric information
      may be pre-generated by using the feature information of the base biometric in
      formation.
[210]   In detail, the controller 130 may determine a value generated by using feature in
      formation of base biometric information as a factor of a certain function (for example,
      a cryptographic hash function), as an encryption key. Alternatively, some of the feature
      information may be used as the factors of the certain function. However, a method of
      generating an encryption key by using base biometric information is not limited thereto
      and may vary.
[211]   Next, in operation S804, the controller 130 may encrypt content by using at least one
      of the first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric information and the
      second encryption key corresponding to the second biometric information.
[212]   FIG. 9 is a flowchart of a method of encrypting content and encryption key so as to
      set security, according to an exemplary embodiment.
[213]   In operation S901, the controller 130 may obtain first biometric information of a
      user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 may receive the first
      biometric information from an external device through the communication unit 150.
      Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the first biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[214]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the external device may be a wearable
      device including a biometrics module. Examples of the external device include a watch
      type wearable device, a glasses type wearable device, a head mounted display device,
      and a band type wearable device, but are not limited thereto. The external device may
      include at least one of a biometrics module for obtaining fingerprint information,
      biometrics module for obtaining iris information, biometrics module for extracting face
      information, biometrics module for extracting retina information, biometrics module
      for extracting voice information, biometrics module for measuring a heart rate, and a
      biometrics module for identifying a gait pattern. However, biometrics modules
      described herein are only examples, and thus are not limited thereto.
[215]   In operation S902, the controller 130 may authenticate the user by using the first
      biometric information.
[216]   In operation S903, when user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 may
      obtain a first encryption key. Here, the first encryption key may be a value generated
      by using base first biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170. The first en-

                                             23
      cryption key may be generated after the user authentication has succeeded. Alter
      natively, the first encryption key may be generated before the user authentication is
      performed. For example, in the registration mode 201, when feature information of
      base first biometric information is stored in the memory 170, a first encryption key
      may be pre-generated by using the feature information of the base first biometric in
      formation. Since a method of generating an encryption key by using biometric in
      formation has been described above, details thereof are not provided again.
[217]   In operation S904, the controller 130 may encrypt content by using the first en
      cryption key obtained in operation S903.
[218]   In operation S905, the controller 130 may obtain a second encryption key. The
      second encryption key may be, for example, a value generated by using base second
      biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170. The second encryption key may
      be generated after the content is encrypted. Alternatively, the second encryption key
      may be generated before the content is encrypted.
[219]   In operation S906, the controller 130 may encrypt the first encryption key by using
      the second encryption key generated in operation S905.
[220]   FIGS. 10 through 13 illustrate examples of a UI provided to set security on content.
[221]   As shown S1010, when a finger fl0 of a user selects a button for a lock setting, the
      controller 130 may determine that a user input for setting security on the content c10 is
      received.
[222]   According to an exemplary embodiment, when the user input is received, the
      controller 130 may display a screen 1002 for a lock setting using biometric in
      formation, and a finger fI 1 of the user may select the lock setting using biometric in
      formation, as shown S1020. According to another exemplary embodiment, the
      controller 130 may display a menu screen (not shown) or an icon (not shown) for the
      lock setting using biometric information, on the display unit 121. In FIG. 10, the UI for
      setting a lock on the content c10 is illustrated, but the UI is not limited thereto.
[223]   Next, as shown in FIG. 11 A, the watch type wearable device 401 may obtain and
      transmit the fingerprint information 10 of the user to the device 100. The device 100
      may receive the fingerprint information 10 from the watch type wearable device 401.
      The controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a notification screen 1101 in
      dicating that biometric information for setting a lock on the content c 10 is received.
      The notification screen 1101 is only an example of a UI for notifying a user that
      content is locked upon receiving biometric information, and thus is not limited thereto.
      As another example, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a screen
      indicating a type of received biometric information, for example, 'fingerprint in
      formation'.
[224]   Alternatively, as shown in FIG. 1 B, the device 100 may obtain biometric in-

                                              24
      formation through a biometrics module provided in the device 100. For example, the
      device 100 may include a module 405 for recognizing a fingerprint, and may obtain the
      fingerprint information 10 when a finger f 12 of the user touches the module 405.
[225]   Referring to FIG. 12, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a
      screen 1201 for setting another piece of biometric information to be used to remove a
      lock on the content c 10.
[226]   FIG. 12 illustrates an example of a UI provided to a user, and the user may pre-set
      the other piece of biometric information different from the biometric information used
      to set a lock on the content c 10. Accordingly, the user may use the other piece of
      biometric information that is pre-set when removing security on the content c 10 later.
      In FIG. 12, if a finger f 13 of the user selects a button for additionally registering
      biometric information, the device 100 may determine that a user input for setting
      security on the content c 10 is received.
[227]   Referring to FIG. 13, the controller 130 may obtain the iris information 12 of the user
      from the glasses type wearable device 402.
[228]   The controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a screen 1301 for notifying
      the user that biometric information is received and the received biometric information
      is registered as biometric information for removing the lock on the content c 10. FIG.
      13 illustrates an example of a UI notifying a user that the user may remove a lock on
      content based on biometric information (for example, the iris information 12) other
      than biometric information (for example, the fingerprint information 10) used to
      encrypt the content.
[229]   According to an exemplary embodiment, a process of providing a UI for setting
      another piece of biometric information to be used to remove a lock on content, as
      described above with reference to FIGS. 12 and 13, may be omitted. In this case, the
      controller 130 may set at least one piece of base biometric information pre-stored in
      the memory 130 as another piece of biometric information to be used to remove the
      lock on the content.
[230]   FIGS. 14A through 14C are diagrams for describing examples of setting security on
      content, according to exemplary embodiments.
[231]   Referring to FIG. 14A, when user authentication succeeds using the fingerprint in
      formation 10, the controller 130 may generate a common password, a first password,
      or a second password. The controller 130 may restrict access to the content c 10 by
      using at least one password p10 (for example, PWA) from among the common
      password, the first password, and the second password. In FIG. 14A,
      "P[content]PWA" indicates that access to 'content' is restricted by using 'PWA'.
[232]   Alternatively, referring to FIG. 14B, when user authentication succeeds using the fin
      gerprint information 10, the controller 130 may generate a common encryption key, a

                                             25
      first encryption key, or a second encryption key. The controller 130 may encrypt the
      content c10 by using at least one key k l0 (for example, keyA) from among the
      common encryption key, the first encryption key, and the second encryption key. In
      FIG. 14B, "E[content]keyA" indicates that 'content' is encrypted by using 'keyA'.
[233]   Referring to FIG. 14C, when an encryption key is encrypted to set security on
      content, the controller 130 may generate a second encryption key k12 (for example,
      keyB) based on the iris information 12 obtained by the glasses type wearable device
      402. For example, when a user is authenticated by using the iris information 12, the
      controller 130 may generate the second encryption key k12 by using base second
      biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170. Then, the controller 130 may
      obtain an encryption key k14 by encrypting the at least one key k10 by using the
      second encryption key k12. Here, "E[keyA]keyB" indicates that 'keyA' is
      encrypted by using 'keyB'.
[234]   The one or more exemplary embodiments described above are only examples and
      thus are not limited thereto. Also, the orders of the operations of the methods described
      above are not limited, and at least one operation may be omitted, an operation may be
      added to the method, or the order may be changed, according to one or more
      exemplary embodiments.
[235]   FIG. 15 is a diagram of a database (DB) dl according to an exemplary embodiment.
[236]   The device 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may include the DB dl. Al
      ternatively, the DB dl of FIG. 15 may be provided in a server 200 of FIG. 79,
      described in further detail below.
[237]   The DB dl may include a content DB d2 and a key DB d3.
[238]   The content DB d2 may store content on which security has been set.
[239]   For example, the content DB d2 may store "P[content]PWA". "P[content]PWA"
      may indicate that access to 'content' is restricted by using a password 'PWA'.
      Hereinafter, "P[aaa]bbb" indicates that access to "aaa" is restricted by using a
      password "bbb", and thus descriptions thereof are not provided.
[240]   Alternatively, the content DB d2 may store "E[content]keyA". "E[content]keyA"
      may indicate that 'content is encrypted by using an encryption key 'key_A'.
      Hereinafter, "E[ccc]ddd" indicates that "ccc" is encrypted by using an encryption key
      "ddd", and thus descriptions thereof are not provided.
[241]   The key DB d3 may store a security key.
[242]   For example, the key DB d3 may store at least one of a password, an encryption key,
      and an encrypted encryption key (for example, "E[keyA]keyB").
[243]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the content on which security is set and the
      security key may be respectively stored in the content DB d2 and the key DB d3, but
      alternatively, may be stored in one DB.

                                            26
[244]   According to an exemplary embodiment, when the device 100 transmits the content
      and the security key to the server 200 through the communication unit 150, the server
      200 may store the content and the security key respectively in the content DB d2 and
      the key DB d3.
[245]   According to another exemplary embodiment, when the server 200 encrypts the
      content or encrypts the encryption key, the server 200 may store the encrypted content
      and the encrypted encryption key respectively in the content DB d2 and the key DB d3.
      Alternatively, the server 200 may store the encrypted content and the encrypted en
      cryption key in one DB. Alternatively, the content on which security is set and the
      security key may be each stored in a DB provided in any one of the server 200 and the
      device 100. For example, the content on which security is set may be stored in a DB
      provided in the server 200 and the security key may be stored in a DB provided in the
      device 100, or vice versa.
[246]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the content on which security is set and the
      security key, which are stored in the server 200, may be accessed by the device 100 or
      a device to which certain access authority is assigned.
[247]   FIG. 16 is a flowchart of a method of removing security on content, according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[248]   Here, a method of removing security on content by using second biometric in
      formation, according to an exemplary embodiment, may denote a method of removing
      security on content by using second biometric information when the security is set on
      the content by using first biometric information.
[249]   In operation S1601, the controller 130 may obtain second biometric information of a
      user.
[250]   In operation S 1602, the controller 130 may authenticate the user by using the second
      biometric information.
[251]   User authentication may be performed by matching feature information of the second
      biometric information and feature information of base second biometric information
      pre-stored in the memory 170. The controller 130 may determine that the user authen
      tication has succeeded when a matching score calculated as a matching result is equal
      to or higher than a certain threshold value. According to an exemplary embodiment,
      when the user authentication is determined to have failed, the controller 130 may
      display, for example on the display unit 121, a notification screen indicating a failure.
[252]   In operation S1603, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may remove security on content by using a security key. The security key may be a
      password or a decryption key.
[253]   For example, the controller 130 may allow access to the content by using the
      password. Alternatively, the controller 130 may decrypt the content by using the de-

                                            27
      cryption key.
[254]   A method of obtaining a password and a decryption key will be described in detail
      later.
[255]   FIG. 17 is a flowchart of a method of allowing access to content so as to remove
      security, according to an exemplary embodiment.
[256]   In operation S 1701, the controller 130 may obtain second biometric information of a
      user.
[257]   According to an exemplary embodiment., the controller 130 may receive the second
      biometric information from an external device through the communication unit 150.
      Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[258]   In operation S 1702, the controller 130 may authenticate the user by using the second
      biometric information.
[259]   User authentication may be performed by matching feature information of the second
      biometric information and feature information of base second biometric information
      pre-stored in the memory 170. The controller 130 may determine that the user authen
      tication has succeeded when a matching score calculated as a matching result is equal
      to or higher than a certain threshold value. According to an exemplary embodiment,
      when the user authentication is determined to have failed, the controller 130 may
      display, for example on the display unit 121, a notification screen indicating a failure.
[260]   In operation S1703, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may obtain a common password. The common password may be commonly used to
      restrict access to content regardless of the type of biometric information. The controller
       130 may obtain the common password from, for example, the memory 170, an external
      server, a wearable device, or a third device.
[261]   Next, in operation S1704, the controller 130 may allow access to content by using the
      common password.
[262]   FIG. 18 is a flowchart of a method of allowing access to content so as to remove
      security, according to another exemplary embodiment.
[263]   In operation S 1801, the controller 130 may obtain second biometric information of a
      user.
[264]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 may receive the second
      biometric information from an external device through the communication unit 150.
      Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[265]   In operation S 1802, the controller 130 may authenticate the user by using the second
      biometric information.
[266]   In operation S1803, when user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 may

                                            28
      obtain a second password corresponding to the second biometric information. The
      second password may be generated by the controller 130 correspondingly to the second
      biometric information when security is set on content by using first biometric in
      formation. The controller 130 may obtain the second password from, for example, the
      memory 170, an external server, a wearable device, or a third device.
[267]   Then, in operation S 1804, the controller 130 may allow access to content by using
      the second password.
[268]   FIG. 19 is a flowchart of a method of decrypting content so as to remove security,
      according to an exemplary embodiment.
[269]   In operation S 1901, the controller 130 may obtain second biometric information of a
      user.
[270]   According to an exemplary embodiment. the controller 130 may receive the second
      biometric information from an external device through the communication unit 150.
      Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[271]   In operation S 1902, the controller 130 may authenticate the user by using the second
      biometric information.
[272]   In operation S1903, when user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 may
      generate a common decryption key. The common decryption key may be commonly
      used to decrypt content regardless of a type of biometric information. For example, the
      common decryption key may be a value generated by using at least one piece of
      feature information of a plurality of pieces of base biometric information. In detail, the
      controller 130 may determine a value generated by using feature information of a
      plurality of pieces of base biometric information as factors of a certain function, as a
      decryption key. Alternatively, the controller 130 may use some of the feature in
      formation as factors of the certain function. However, an example of generating a de
      cryption key by using base biometric information is not limited thereto and may vary.
[273]   In operation S 1904, the controller 130 may decrypt encrypted content by using the
      common decryption key generated in operation S 1903.
[274]   FIG. 20 is a flowchart of a method of decrypting content so as to remove security,
      according to another exemplary embodiment.
[275]   In operation S2001, the controller 130 may obtain second biometric information of a
      user.
[276]   According to an exemplary embodiment. the controller 130 may receive the second
      biometric information from an external device through the communication unit 150.
      Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[277]   In operation S2002, the controller 130 may authenticate a user by using the second

                                            29
      biometric information.
[278]   In operation S2003, when user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 may
      obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric information. For
      example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using feature in
      formation of base second biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170. In
      detail, the controller 130 may determine a value generated by using feature information
      of second biometric information as a factor of a certain function, as the second de
      cryption key. However, a method of generating a second decryption key by using base
      second biometric information is not limited thereto and may vary.
[279]   Meanwhile, a second decryption key and a second encryption key may be the same
      or different from each other.
[280]   A second decryption key and a second encryption key are the same when, for
      example, a value output by using a function and factor values of the function, which
      are used to generate a second encryption key, is used as the second decryption key.
[281]   A second decryption key and a second encryption key may be different from each
      other when, for example, a public key and a private key are generated based on an
      output value (for example, a seed value) of a function while using the function and
      factor values of the function, which are used to encrypt content, to decrypt the content.
      At this time, the public key may be used as the encryption key and the private key may
      be used as the decryption key. In this case, the public key may be used as the second
      encryption key and the private key may be used as the second decryption key.
[282]   In operation S2004, the controller 130 may decrypt encrypted content by using the
      second decryption key.
[283]   FIG. 21 is flowchart of a method of decrypting content so as to remove security,
      according to another exemplary embodiment.
[284]   In operation S2101, the controller 130 may obtain second biometric information of a
      user.
[285]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 may receive the second
      biometric information through the communication unit 150 from an external device.
      Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[286]   In operation S2102, the controller 130 may authenticate the user based on the second
      biometric information.
[287]   In operation S2103, when user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 may
      obtain second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric information. For
      example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using feature in
      formation of base second biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170. In
      detail, the controller 130 may determine a value generated by using feature information

                                              30
      of second biometric information as a factor of a certain function. as the second de
      cryption key. However, a method of generating a second decryption key by using base
      second biometric information is not limited thereto, and may vary. Meanwhile, a
      second decryption key and a second encryption key may be the same or different from
      each other.
[288]   In operation S2104, the controller 130 may decrypt a first encryption key (refer to
      operation S906 of FIG. 9) by using the second decryption key obtained in operation
      S2103.
[289]   In operation S2105, the controller 130 may decrypt content (refer to operation S904
      of FIG. 9) by using a first decryption key obtained by decrypting the first encryption
      key in operation S2104.
[290]   FIGS. 22A through 23 illustrate examples of a UI provided to remove security on
      content by using second biometric information, according to exemplary embodiments.
[291]   Referring to FIG. 22A, when a finger f22 of a user selects the content c 10 on which
      security is set at S2210, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a
      screen 2201 requesting the user to input biometric information to remove the security
      on the content c10 at S2220. The controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a
      list of devices 2201-1 and 2201-2 that are able to obtain biometric information for
      removing the security on the content c 10. According to an exemplary embodiment, the
      controller 130 may receive a user input of selecting, by a finger 23, the device 2201-2.,
      i.e., 'Glass', as a device for obtaining biometric information.
[292]   As another example, referring to FIG. 22B, when a finger f24 of a user selects the
      content c 10 on which security is set at S2230, the controller 130 may display, on the
      display unit 121, a screen 2202 requesting the user to input biometric information to
      remove the security on the content c 10 at S2240. The controller 130 may display, on
      the display unit 121, types 2202-1 and 2202-2 of biometric information for removing
      the security on the content c 10. According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller
       130 may receive a user input of selecting, by a finger f25, the type 2202-2, i.e.., 'iris'.
[293]   FIG. 22B illustrates an example of a UI requesting a user to input biometric in
      formation for removing security when the device 100 receives a user input for
      accessing content on which the security is set, but the UI is not limited thereto. For
      example, the device 100 may not display a list of devices or types of biometric in
      formation for removing security on content, but may only display a screen requesting a
      user to input authentication information.
[294]   Referring to FIG. 23, the device 100 may receive the iris information 12 from the
      glasses type wearable device 402. The controller 130 may display, on the display unit
       121, a screen 2301 indicating that authentication information is received.
[295]   FIG. 23 illustrates an example of a screen indicating that the device 100 received au-

                                             31
      thentication information from an external device, but the screen is not limited thereto.
      For example, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a type of
      received biometric information (for example, 'iris information'). Alternatively, the
      controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a device that obtained biometric
      information (for example, 'glasses type wearable device').
[296]   FIGS. 24A through 24D are diagrams for describing examples of setting security on
      content, according to other exemplary embodiments.
[297]   Referring to FIG. 24A, when a user is authenticated by using second biometric in
      formation (for example, iris information) of the user, the controller 130 may obtain a
      common password p21. The controller 130 may allow access to content by using the
      common password p21.
[298]   Alternatively, referring to FIG. 24B, when a user is authenticated by using second
      biometric information (for example, iris information) of the user, the controller 130
      may obtain a password p22 corresponding to the second biometric information. The
      controller 130 may allow access to content by using the password p22.
[299]   Alternatively, referring to FIG. 24C, when a user is authenticated by using second
      biometric information (for example, iris information) of the user, the controller 130
      may generate a common decryption key k21 by using feature information of base
      biometric information pre- stored in the memory 170. The controller 130 may decrypt
      encrypted content by using the common decryption key k21.
[300]   Alternatively, referring to FIG. 24D, when a user is authenticated by using second
      biometric information (for example, iris information) of the user, the controller 130
      may generate a second decryption key k22 corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation by using feature information of base second biometric information pre
      stored in the memory 170. Then, the controller 130 may decrypt encrypted content by
      using the second decryption key k22.
[301]   Alternatively, referring to FIG. 24E, when a user is authenticated by using the iris in
      formation 12 of the user, the controller 130 may generate a second decryption key k23,
      i.e., keyB, by using base second biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170.
      The controller 130 may decrypt an encrypted first encryption key k24, i.e.,
      E[KeyA]keyB, by using the second decryption key k23. The controller 130 may
      decrypt encrypted content by using a decrypted key k25, i.e., keyA.
[302]   The one or more exemplary embodiments described above are only examples and
      thus are not limited thereto. Also, the orders of the operations of the methods described
      above are not limited, and at least one operation may be omitted, an operation may be
      added to the method, or the order may be changed, according to one or more
      exemplary embodiments.
[303]   FIG. 25 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to an exemplary em-

                                            32
      bodiment.
[304]   The table of FIG. 25 is used to describe a method of decrypting content after the
      content is encrypted.
[305]   The controller 130 may decrypt the content based on second biometric information.
[306]   In detail, as shown in a reference numeral 2501 of FIG. 25, when user authentication
      has succeeded by using the second biometric information, the controller 130 may
      generate a decryption key (KeyB) by using base second biometric information pre
      stored in the memory 170. The controller 130 may decrypt an encrypted first en
      cryption key, i.e., E[keyA]key B, by using the decryption key. The controller 130
      may decrypt encrypted content, i.e., E[content]keyA, by using a decrypted first en
      cryption key, i.e., KeyA.
[307]   Alternatively, the controller 130 may decrypt the content based on first biometric in
      formation.
[308]   In detail, as shown in a reference numeral 2502 of FIG. 25, the controller 130 may
      generate a decryption key (KeyA) by using base first biometric information pre
      stored in the memory 170. The controller 130 may decrypt encrypted content, i.e.,
      E[content]keyA, by using the decryption key (KeyA).
[309]   FIG. 26 is a flowchart of a method of decrypting content in order to remove security
      by using first biometric information, according to another exemplary embodiment. A
      method of decrypting content by using first biometric information may denote a
      method of decrypting content by using biometric information used to encrypt the
      content.
[310]   Referring to FIG. 26, in operation S2601, the controller 130 may obtain biometric in
      formation of a user.
[311]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 may receive the
      biometric information from an external device through the communication unit 150.
      Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[312]   In operation S2602, the controller 130 may authenticate the user by using the
      biometric information.
[313]   In operation S2603, the controller 130 may determine whether the biometric in
      formation obtained in operation S2601 is the same as biometric information used to
      encrypt content.
[314]   When it is determined that the biometric information is the same as that used to
      encrypt the content in operation S2603, the controller 130 may obtain a decryption key
      corresponding to the biometric information to decrypt the content, in operation S2604.
[315]   For example, the decryption key may be a value generated, by the controller 130, by
      using feature information of base first biometric information pre-stored in the memory

                                              33
      170.
[316]   In detail, the controller 130 may determine a value generated by using feature in
      formation of first biometric information as a factor of a certain function, as the de
      cryption key. However, a method of generating a decryption key by using base first
      biometric information is not limited thereto, and may vary.
[317]   In operation S2605, the controller 130 may decrypt the content by using the de
      cryption key obtained in operation S2605.
[318]   For example, when biometric information used to encrypt content is first biometric
      information (for example, fingerprint information), and the obtained biometric in
      formation obtained in operation S2601 is also the first biometric information (the fin
      gerprint information), the content may be decrypted by using a decryption key corre
      sponding to base first biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170.
[319]   When it is determined that the biometric information is different from that used to
      encrypt the content in operation S2603, the controller 130 may obtain a decryption key
      corresponding to biometric information in order to decrypt an encryption key of the
      content, in operation S2606.
[320]   For example, the decryption key corresponding to the biometric information may be
      a value generated, by the controller 130, by using feature information of base second
      biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170.
[321]   In operations S2607, the controller 130 may decrypt the encryption key by using the
      decryption key. In operation S2608, the controller 130 may decrypt the content by
      using the decrypted encryption key.
[322]   For example, when biometric information used to encrypt content is first biometric
      information (for example, fingerprint information), and the obtained biometric in
      formation obtained in operation S2601 is second biometric information (for example,
      iris information), an encryption key may be decrypted by using a decryption key
      obtained by using base second biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170,
      and then content may be decrypted by using the decrypted encryption key.
[323]   FIGS. 27A through 28 illustrate examples of a UI provided to decrypt content in
      order to remove security by using first biometric information, according to exemplary
      embodiments.
[324]   As shown in FIG. 27A, when a finger f 18-1 of a user selects content c18 on which
      security is set at S27 10, the controller 130 may display on the display unit 121, a
      screen 208 requesting the user to input biometric information to remove the security on
      the content c18 at S2720. For example, the controller 130 may display, on the display
      unit 121, a list of external devices 209 and 210 for removing the security on the
      content c18. For example, the controller 130 may receive a user input of selecting, by a
      finger f20, the external device 210, for example, 'Watch', as a device for obtaining

                                             34
      biometric information.
[325]    According to another exemplary embodiment, referring to FIG. 27B, when a finger
      f 18-2 of a user selects the content c18 at S2730, the controller 130 may display, on the
      display unit 121, a screen 208-2 for requesting the user to input biometric information
      to remove the security on the content c18 at S2740. The controller 130 may display, on
      the display unit 121, types 209-2 and 210-2 of biometric information for removing the
      security on the content c18.
[326]    For example, the controller 130 may receive a user input of selecting, by a finger
      f20-2, the type 210-2, i.e., a fingerprint, as a type of biometric information.
[327]    FIGS. 27A and 27B illustrate examples of a UI requesting a user to input biometric
      information for removing security when the device 100 receives a user input for
      accessing content on which the security is set, but the UI is not limited thereto. For
      example, the device 100 may only display a screen requesting a user to input authen
      tication information, instead of displaying a list of devices or types of biometric in
      formation for removing security.
[328]    Referring to FIG. 28, the device 100 may receive fingerprint information 22 from the
      watch type wearable device 401. The controller 130 may display, on the display unit
       121, a screen 212 indicating that authentication information is received. FIG. 28 il
      lustrates an example of a screen indicating that authentication information is received
      from an external device, and the screen is not limited thereto.
[329]    For example, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a type of
      received biometric information (for example, 'fingerprint information'). Alternatively,
      the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a device that obtained
      biometric information (for example, 'watch type wearable device').
[330]    The one or more exemplary embodiments described above are only examples and
      thus are not limited thereto. Also, the orders of the operations of the methods described
      above are not limited, and at least one operation may be omitted, an operation may be
      added to the method, or the order may be changed, according to one or more
      exemplary embodiments.
[331]    FIG. 29 is a diagram for describing an example of sharing content by a plurality of
      users, according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in FIG. 29, for example,
      when a first user Userl set security on content c26 by using biometric information of
      the first user Userl, second use User2 and third user User3 may remove the security by
      using biometric information of each of the second user User2 and third user User3.
[332]    According to an exemplary embodiment, the first user Userl may own the device
       100, such as a smart phone, and a glasses type wearable device 801. The glasses type
      wearable device 801 may include a biometrics module for obtaining iris information
      34. The device 100 may obtain the iris information 34 by receiving the iris information

                                              35
      34 from the glasses type wearable device 801 that is paired with the device 100.,
      through a communication unit.
[333]   The second user User2 may own a device 802, such as a watch type wearable device.
      The device 802 may include a microphone for obtaining voice information. Also, the
      third user User3 may own a device 803, such as a smart phone. The device 803 may
      include biometrics module for recognizing face information.
[334]   According to an exemplary embodiment, for a plurality of users to work on the
      content c26 together, the plurality of users may be able to remove the security set on
      the content c26. When the first user Userl generated the content c26, the first user
      Userl may wish to allow the second user User2 and the third user User3 to access the
      content c26. In this case, the first user Userl may set the security on the content C26
      by using biometric information of the first user Userl, and then set the content C26
      such that the security is removed by using biometric information of each of the second
      user User2 and third user User3.
[335]   For example, the device 100 may set the security on the content c26 by using the iris
      information 34, and then set the content c26 such that the security is removed by using
      voice information 36 of the second user User2 or face information 38 of the third user
      User3.
[336]   According to an exemplary embodiment, an encryption key corresponding to the iris
      information 34 may be encrypted by using the voice information 36, and then later be
      decrypted by using the voice information 36. Then, the content c26 may be decrypted
      by using the decrypted encryption key.
[337]   Alternatively, the encryption key corresponding to the iris information 34 may be
      encrypted by using the face information 38, and then later be decrypted by using the
      face information 38. Then, the content c26 may be decrypted by using the decrypted
      encryption key.
[338]   In FIG. 29, the device 100 obtains the biometric information of the first user Userl
      from the glasses type wearable device 801, i.e., an external device, but an exemplary
      embodiment is not limited thereto. According to another exemplary embodiment, the
      device 100 may directly obtain the biometric information of the first user Userl from a
      biometrics module included in the device 100.
[339]   Methods of setting and removing security, according to other exemplary em
      bodiments will now be described in detail with reference to FIGS. 30 through 43.
[340]   FIG. 30 is a flowchart of a method of encrypting content and encryption key to set
      security, according to an exemplary embodiment.
[341]   In operation S3001, the device 100 of a first user may obtain first biometric in
      formation of the first user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100
      may obtain the first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the

                                             36
      device 100.
[342]   In operation S3002, the controller 130 of the device 100 may perform user authen
      tication by using the first biometric information.
[343]   The user authentication may be performed by matching feature information of the
      obtained first biometric information and feature information of base first biometric in
      formation pre-stored in the memory 170. The controller 130 may determine that the
      user authentication has succeeded when a matching score calculated as a matching
      result is equal to or higher than a certain threshold value.
[344]   In operation S3003, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may obtain a first encryption key. Here, the first encryption key may be a value
      generated by using the base first biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170.
      The first encryption key may be generated after the user authentication has succeeded
      or before the user authentication is performed. For example, in the registration mode
      201 for registering the first biometric information, when the feature information of the
      base first biometric information is stored in the memory 170, the first encryption key
      may be pre-generated and stored by using the feature information of the base first
      biometric information. Since a method of generating an encryption key by using
      biometric information has been described above, details thereof are not provided again.
[345]   In operation S3004, the controller 130 may encrypt content by using the first en
      cryption key.
[346]   In operation S3005, the device 802 of a second user may obtain second biometric in
      formation of the second user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 802
      may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the
      device 802.
[347]   In operation S3006, the device 802 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[348]   The user authentication may be performed by matching feature information of the
      obtained second biometric information and feature information of base second
      biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170. The controller 130 may
      determine that the user authentication has succeeded when a matching score calculated
      as a matching result is equal to or higher than a certain threshold value.
[349]   In operation S3007, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 802 may
      obtain a second encryption key. Here, the second encryption key may be a value
      generated by using the base second biometric information pre-stored in the memory
       170. The second encryption key may be generated after the user authentication has
      succeeded or before the user authentication is performed. For example, in the reg
      istration mode 201 for registering the second biometric information, when the feature
      information of the base second biometric information is stored in the memory 170, the

                                             37
      second encryption key may be pre-generated and stored by using the feature in
      formation of the base second biometric information. Since a method of generating an
      encryption key by using biometric information has been described above, details
      thereof are not provided again.
[350]   In operation S3009, the device 803 of a third user may obtain third biometric in
      formation of the third user.
[351]   In operation S3010, the device 803 may perform user authentication by using the
      third biometric information.
[352]   The user authentication may be performed by matching feature information of the
      obtained third biometric information and feature information of base third biometric
      information pre-stored in the memory 170. The controller 130 may determine that the
      user authentication has succeeded when a matching score calculated as a matching
      result is equal to or higher than a certain threshold value.
[353]   In operation S3011, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 803 may
      obtain a third encryption key. Here, the third encryption key may be a value generated
      by using base third biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170 of the device
      803.
[354]   According to an exemplary embodiment, since each operation performed in the
      device 803 corresponds to each operation performed in the device 802, details thereof
      are not repeated.
[355]   In operation S3008, the device 802 may transmit the second encryption key to the
      device 100.
[356]   In operation S3013, the device 100 may encrypt the first encryption key by using the
      second encryption key received from the device 802.
[357]   Also, in operation S3012, the device 803 may transmit the third encryption key to the
      device 100.
[358]   In operation S3014, the device 100 may encrypt the first encryption key by using the
      third encryption key received from the device 803.
[359]   FIGS. 31 and 32 illustrate examples of a UI provided to set security on content.
[360]   Referring to S3110, the controller 130 of the device 100 may receive an input of
      selecting, by a finger f32 of a user, a button 228 for setting a lock on content c27, such
      as document data.
[361]   When the input is received, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a
      selection screen 230 for setting a lock on the content c27 by using biometric in
      formation at S3120.
[362]   As shown in FIG. 32, the device 100 may receive iris information 40 of the first user
      Userl from an external device, such as the glasses type wearable device 801 of the first
      user Userl. The controller 130 of the device 100 may display, on the display unit 121,

                                            38
      a screen 232-1 indicating that biometric information is received. The controller 130
      may display, on the display unit 121, a screen 232-2 indicating that a lock is set on
      content. However, such an example of a UI of a device that received biometric in
      formation for setting a lock on content from an external device is not limited thereto.
[363]   Referring to FIG. 33, the controller 130 of the device 100 may generate a first en
      cryption key k26, for example, Key-C, by using iris information 42 obtained from the
      glasses type wearable device 801. For example, the controller 130 may generate the
      first encryption key k26 by using base iris information pre-stored in the memory 170
      when the first user Userl is authenticated by using the iris information 42. The
      controller 130 may encrypt content c28 by using the first encryption key k26. Here,
      "E[content]keyC" indicates that 'content' is encrypted by using 'keyC'.
[364]   FIGS. 34 through 38 are diagrams for describing a method of sharing, by the device
       100, content on which security is set with another user, according to an exemplary em
      bodiment.
[365]   Referring to S3410, the device 100 may display a menu screen 234-1 for a sharing
      setting on an execution screen of content (for example, document data). When a finger
      f36-1 selects the menu window 234-1 for the sharing setting at S3410, the device 100
      may display a contact list 234-2 stored in the device 100 as shown at S3420. When a
      finger f36-2 selects a certain person from the contact list 234-2, the device 100 may
      determine that content is to be shared to the selected certain person.
[366]   A sharing setting using a contact list described above with reference to FIG. 34 is
      only an example, and the sharing setting is not limited thereto. For example, the device
       100 may set content to be shared by using acquaintance information by extracting the
      acquaintance information via face recognition performed on a certain image. Alter
      natively, the device 100 may set content to be shared with an acquaintance through a
      recent call list.
[367]   As shown in FIG. 35, the device 100 of the first user Userl may receive an en
      cryption key k28 (KeyD) corresponding to voice information of the second user
      User2 from the device 802 of the second user User2. For example, when the second
      user User2 is authenticated by using the voice information, the device 802 may
      generate the encryption key k28 by using base voice information pre-stored in a
      memory.
[368]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 of the device 100 may
      display, on the display unit 121, a screen 236-2 indicating that a content lock is set
      such that the second user User2 is able to remove the content lock. However, the
      screen 236-2 is only an example of a UI, and thus is not limited thereto.
[369]   FIG. 36 is a diagram for describing a process of encrypting a first encryption key k30
      (key-C) by using the second encryption key k28 (keyD).

                                             39
[370]   The controller 130 of the device 802 of the second user User2 may generate the
      second encryption key k28 (for example, keyD) corresponding to voice information
      48 of the second user User2. For example, the controller 130 may generate the second
      encryption key k28 by using base voice information pre-stored in a memory when the
      second user User2 is authenticated by using the voice information 48.
[371]   The device 100 receives the second encryption key k28 from the device 802, and
      may encrypt the first encryption key k3 (keyC) by using the second encryption key
      k28, For example, "E[keyC]keyD" indicates that 'keyC' is encrypted by using
      'keyD'.
[372]   FIGS. 37A and 37B are diagrams for describing processes of sharing content with
      another user (the third user User3).
[373]   As shown in FIG. 37A, the device 100 of the first user Userl may receive an en
      cryption key k32 (KeyE) corresponding to face information of the third user User3
      from the device 803 of the third user User3. For example, when the third user User3 is
      authenticated by using the face information of the third user User3, the device 803 may
      generate the encryption key k32 by using base face information pre-stored in a
      memory. According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 of the device 100
      may display, on the display unit 121, a screen 237-2 indicating that a content lock is set
      such that the content lock may be removed by the third user User3. However, the
      screen 237-2 is only an example of a UI, and is not limited thereto.
[374]   According to another exemplary embodiment, referring to FIG. 37B, the device 100
      may extract face information from image data pre-stored in the device 100. As shown
      at S3710, the device 100 may display, on the display unit 121, images 238 stored in a
      memory of the device 100. The device 100 may receive a user input of selecting, by a
      finger f37, an image 51.
[375]   As shown at S3720, the controller 130 may extract face information 51-2 of a user
      included in image data 51-1.
[376]   As shown at S3730, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a screen
      238-1 indicating that face information of a third user User3 is extracted.
[377]   Also, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a screen 238-2 in
      dicating that the third user User3 is set to remove a content lock. FIG. 37 illustrates
      examples of Uls, but the Uls are not limited thereto.
[378]   FIG. 38 is a diagram for describing a process of encrypting a first encryption key k34
      (KeyC) by using a third encryption key k32 (KeyE).
[379]   Referring to FIG. 38, the controller 130 of the device 803 of the third user User3 may
      generate the third encryption key k32 (KeyE) corresponding to obtained face in
      formation 52. For example, when the third user User3 is authenticated by using the
      obtained face information 52, the controller 130 may generate the third encryption key

                                             40
      k32 by using base face information pre-stored in a memory.
[380]   The controller 130 of the device 100 of the first user Userl may encrypt the first en
      cryption key k34 (KeyC) by using the third encryption key k32. For example,
      "E[keyC]keyE" indicates that 'keyC' is encrypted by using 'keyE'.
[381]   The one or more exemplary embodiments described above are only examples and
      thus are not limited thereto. Also, the orders of the operations of the methods described
      above are not limited, and at least one operation may be omitted, an operation may be
      added to the method, or the order may be changed, according to one or more
      exemplary embodiments.
[382]   FIGS. 39 and 40 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according to
      exemplary embodiments.
[383]   Referring to FIG. 39, in operation S3901, the device 100 of the first user Userl may
      store encrypted content. In operation S3902, the device 100 may store an encrypted
      first encryption key. In FIG. 39, the device 100 stores the encrypted content and the
      encrypted first encryption key.
[384]   In operation S3903, the device 802 of the second user User2 may request the device
      100 for content. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 802 that is to
      access the encrypted content may request the device 100 storing the encrypted content
      for the encrypted content.
[385]   In operation S3904, the device 100 may transmit the encrypted content to the device
      802. In operation S3905, the device 100 may transmit the encrypted first encryption
      key to the device 802.
[386]   As described above, data transmission (for example, transmission of content,
      transmission of biometric information, transmission of an encryption key, and
      transmission of a decryption key) between a transmitter and a receiver, according to an
      exemplary embodiment, may be performed by using a safe channel. The safe channel
      means a channel having high security on communication content between the
      transmitter and the receiver. In other words, the safe channel may be configured by
      using a protocol for safely transferring data, such as a secure sockets layer (SSL) or
      transport layer security (TLS). For example, the safe channel may be a hypertext
      transfer protocol over secure sockets layer (https) configured by using a protocol, such
      as SSL or TLS.
[387]   Referring back to FIG. 39, in operation S3906, the device 802 may obtain second
      biometric information of the second user User2. According to an exemplary em
      bodiment, the device 802 may obtain the second biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 802.
[388]   In operation S3907, the device 802 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.

                                            41
[389]   In operation S3908, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 of
      the second device 802 may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the
      second biometric information. For example, the second decryption key may be a value
      generated, by the controller 130, by using feature information of base second biometric
      information pre-stored in a memory.
[390]   In operation S3909, the device 802 may decrypt the encrypted first encryption key by
      using the second decryption key.
[391]   In operation S3910, the device 802 may decrypt the encrypted content by using the
      decrypted first encryption key.
[392]   According to an exemplary embodiment, since the device 802 decrypts the encrypted
      content received from the device 100, by using the second biometric information, the
      content of the first user Userl may be shared.
[393]   FIG. 40 is a diagram for describing an exemplary embodiment wherein the server
      200 stores encrypted content and encrypted first encryption key.
[394]   Referring to FIG. 40, in operation S4001, the device 100 of the first user Userl
      according to an exemplary embodiment may transmit the encrypted content to the
      server 200. In operation S4002, the device 100 may transmit an encrypted first en
      cryption key to the server 200. In operation S4003. the server 200 according to an
      exemplary embodiment may store the encrypted content. In operation S4004, the
      server 200 may store the encrypted first encryption key.
[395]   Meanwhile, in operation S4005, the device 802 of the second user User2 may request
      the server 200 for content. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 802
      that is to access the encrypted content may request the server 200 storing the encrypted
      content for the encrypted content.
[396]   In operation S4006, the server 200 may transmit the encrypted content to the device
      802. In operation S4007, the server 200 may transmit the encrypted first encryption
      key to the device 802. In operation S4008, the device 802 may obtain second biometric
      information of the second user User2. According to an exemplary embodiment, the
      device 802 may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module
      provided in the device 802.
[397]   In operation S4009, the device 802 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[398]   In operation S4010, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 of
      the device 802 may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second
      biometric information. For example, the second decryption key may be a value
      generated, by the controller 130, by using feature information of base second biometric
      information pre-stored in a memory.
[399]   In operation S4011, the device 802 may decrypt the encrypted first encryption key by

                                             42
      using the second decryption key. In operation S4012, the device 802 may decrypt the
      encrypted content by using the decrypted first encryption key.
[400]   According to an exemplary embodiment, since the device 802 decrypts the encrypted
      content received from the device 100, by using the second biometric information, the
      content of the first user Userl may be shared.
[401]   FIG. 41 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another exemplary
      embodiment.
[402]   FIG. 41 illustrates a table for describing a method of decrypting content after en
      crypting the content. The controller 130 may decrypt the content based on second
      biometric information of a second user.
[403]   In detail, when user authentication has succeeded by using the second biometric in
      formation, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (KeyD) by using base
      second biometric information pre- stored in a memory. The controller 130 may decrypt
      an encrypted encryption key, i.e., E[keyC]keyD, by using the decryption key. The
      controller 130 may decrypt encrypted content, i.e., E[content]keyC, by using the
      decrypted encryption key, i.e., KeyC.
[404]   Also, the controller 130 may decrypt the content by using third biometric information
      of a third user.
[405]   In detail, when user authentication has succeeded by using the third biometric in
      formation, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (KeyE) by using base
      third biometric information pre-stored in a memory. The controller 130 may decrypt an
      encrypted encryption key, i.e., E[keyC]keyE, by using the decryption key. The
      controller 130 may decrypt the encrypted content, i.e., [content]keyC, by using the
      decrypted encryption key, i.e., KeyC.
[406]   Also, the controller 130 may decrypt the content by using first biometric information
      of a first user.
[407]   In detail, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (KeyC) by using base
      first biometric information pre- stored in a memory. The controller 130 may decrypt the
      encrypted content, i.e., E[content]keyC, by using the decryption key.
[408]   FIG. 42 is a flowchart of a method of changing a security setting, according to an
      exemplary embodiment. FIG. 43 is a diagram for describing an example of changing a
      security setting, according to an exemplary embodiment.
[409]   For example, according to one or more exemplary embodiments described above
      with reference to FIGS. 29 through 41, after a first user encrypts content, the first user
      may share the content with a second user and a third user. The first user may assign
      authority to access the encrypted content to each of the second and third users.
[410]   In order to share content, a device of the first user may encrypt a first encryption key
      (an encryption key used to encrypt the content) by using an encryption key generated

                                             43
      based on each of second biometric information of the second user and third biometric
      infonnation of the third user.
[411]   Meanwhile, according to an exemplary embodiment, the first user may remove the
      authority assigned to the second and third users.
[412]   In order to remove content sharing, the device of the first user may encrypt and store
      content by using a new encryption key generated based on new biometric information.
      In this case, even when the second and third users generate a decryption key based on
      the second and third biometric information and obtain the first encryption key by using
      the decryption key, the second and third users are unable to decrypt the content that is
      encrypted by using the new encryption key.
[413]   Referring to FIG. 42, in operation S4201, the device 100 of a first user may store
      content encrypted by using first encryption key. In operation S4202, the device 100
      may store the first encryption key encrypted by using a second encryption key that is
      generated based on second biometric information of a second user. Also, in operation
      S4203, the device 100 may store the first encryption key encrypted by using a third en
      cryption key that is generated based on third biometric information of a third user.
[414]   By performing operations S4202 and S4203, the content may be shared with the
      second and third users.
[415]   For example, the second encryption key may be generated based on the second
      biometric information of the second user. The first encryption key may be decrypted
      by using the second encryption key, and the content may be decrypted by using the
      first encryption key.
[416]   Also, the third encryption key may be generated based on the third biometric in
      formation of the third user. The first encryption key may be decrypted by using the
      third encryption key, and the content may be decrypted by using the first encryption
      key.
[417]   Meanwhile, in operation S4204, the device 100 may obtain first biometric in
      formation of the first user.
[418]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100 may obtain the first
      biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[419]   In operation S4205, the device 100 may perfonn user authentication by using the first
      biometric infonnation.
[420]   In operation S4206, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may obtain a first decryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first decryption key may be a value generated, by the controller 130, by
      using feature information of base first biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[421]   In operation S4207, the device 100 may decrypt the encrypted content by using the
      first decryption key.

                                              44
[422]   In operation S4208, the device 100 may delete the encrypted content by using the
      first encryption key. Accordingly, a content sharing effect with the second and third
      users may be removed.
[423]   Also, in operation S4209, the device 100 may obtain another biometric information
      of the first user, which is different type from the first biometric information. According
      to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100 may obtain the other biometric in
      formation from a biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[424]   In operation S4210, the device 100 may perform user authentication by using the
      other biometric information.
[425]   In operation S421 1, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 of
      the device 100 may obtain an encryption key corresponding to the other biometric in
      formation. Here, the encryption key may be a value generated by using base biometric
      information pre-stored in the memory 170.
[426]   In operation S4212, the controller 130 may encrypt the content by using the en
      cryption key corresponding to the other biometric information. Accordingly, the
      encrypted content is not decrypted by the second and third encryption keys generated
      based on the second and third biometric information, and thus the second and third
      users are unable to decrypt the encrypted content.
[427]   In FIG. 42, the device 100 stores encrypted content, but according to another
      exemplary embodiment, the encrypted content may be stored in an external server, and
      operations S4204 through S4212 may be performed when the device 100 requests for
      and receives the encrypted content from the external server.
[428]   Also, in operation S4212, the device 100 may store the encrypted content. As another
      example, in operation S4212, the device 100 may transmit the encrypted content to an
      external server.
[429]   Referring to FIG. 43 at S4310, the controller 130 of the device 100 may receive a
      user input of selecting, by a finger f38, a button 240 for changing a lock setting of
      content c30 on which a lock is set.
[430]   Referring to FIG. 43 at S4320, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit
      121, a screen 242 for requesting a user to input new biometric information to change
      the lock setting.
[431]   FIG. 43 illustrates an example of a UI wherein security on content is removed and
      then security is re-set on the content by using new biometric information, and the UI is
      not limited thereto.
[432]   FIG. 44 is a flowchart of a method of setting security on content, according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[433]   In operation S4401, the device 100 may generate a content encryption key.
[434]   The content encryption key may be a key randomly generated by a system for en-

                                             45
      crypting content, i.e., the device 100 of a first user.
[435]   In operation S4402, the device 100 may transmit the content encryption key to a
      device 1001 of a second user.
[436]   The content encryption key may be transmitted by using a safe channel. As described
      above, the safe channel means a channel having high security on communication
      content between a transmitter and a receiver. In other words, the safe channel may be
      configured by using a protocol for safely transferring data, such as SSL or TLS. For
      example, the safe channel may be https configured by applying a protocol, such as SSL
      or TLS.
[437]   Meanwhile, in operation S4403, the device 100 may encrypt content by using the
      content encryption key.
[438]   In operation S4404, the device 100 may obtain first biometric information of the first
      user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100 may obtain the first
      biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[439]   In operation S4405, the controller 130 of the device 100 may perform user authen
      tication by using the first biometric information.
[440]   In operation S4406, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may obtain a first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric information.
      Here, the first encryption key may be a value generated by using base first biometric
      information pre-stored in the memory 170.
[441]   In operation S4407, the device 100 may encrypt the content encryption key by using
      the first encryption key. In operation S4408, the device 100 may store the content en
      cryption key encrypted by using the first encryption key.
[442]   Meanwhile, in operation S4402, the device 1001 may receive the content encryption
      key from the device 100.
[443]   In operation S4409, the device 1001 may obtain second biometric information of the
      second user. For example, the device 1001 may obtain the second biometric in
      formation from a biometrics module provided in the device 1001.
[444]   In operation S4410, the device 1001 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[445]   In operation S4411, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 of
      the device 1001 may obtain a second encryption key corresponding to the second
      biometric information. Here, the second encryption key may be a value generated by
      using base second biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170.
[446]   In operation S4412, the device 1001 may encrypt the content encryption key by using
      the second encryption key. In operation S4413, the device 1001 may store the content
      encryption key encrypted by using the second encryption key.
[447]   Accordingly, the device 1001 may decrypt the content encryption key based on the

                                            46
      second biometric infonnation, and then decrypt the content by using the decrypted
      content encryption key.
[448]   The one or more exemplary embodiments described above are only examples and
      thus are not limited thereto. Also, the orders of the operations of the methods described
      above are not limited, and at least one operation may be omitted, an operation may be
      added to the method, or the order may be changed, according to one or more
      exemplary embodiments.
[449]   FIGS. 45 and 46 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according to other
      exemplary embodiments.
[450]   In operation S4501, the device 100 of a first user may store encrypted content. In
      operation S4502, the device 100 may store a content encryption key encrypted by
      using a first encryption key.
[451]   Meanwhile, in operation S4503, a device 2001 of a second user may store the content
      encryption key encrypted by using a second encryption key.
[452]   In operation S4504, the device 2001 may request the device 100 for content. For
      example, the device 2001 that is to access the encrypted content may request the
      device 100 for the encrypted content.
[453]   In operation S4505, the device 100 may transmit the encrypted content to the device
      2001.
[454]   In order to decrypt the encrypted content, in operation 4506, the device 2001 may
      obtain second biometric information of the second user. According to an exemplary
      embodiment, the device 2001 may obtain the second biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 2001.
[455]   In operation S4507, the device 2001 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[456]   In operation S4508, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 of
      the device 2001 may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second
      biometric information. For example, the second decryption key may be a value
      generated by using base second biometric information rep-stored in a memory.
[457]   In operation S4509, the device 2001 may decrypt the content encryption key by using
      the second decryption key. In operation S4510, the device 2001 may decrypt the
      encrypted content by using the decrypted content encryption key.
[458]   FIG. 46 illustrates an exemplary embodiment in which encrypted content is stored in
      the server 200.
[459]   In operation S4601, the server 200 according to an exemplary embodiment may store
      the encrypted content.
[460]   Also, in operation S4602, the device 2001 may store a content encryption key
      encrypted by using a second encryption key.

                                             47
[461]   In operation S4603, the device 2001 may request the server 200 for content. For
      example, the device 2001 that is to access the encrypted content may request the server
      200 for the encrypted content. In operation S4604, the server 200 may transmit the
      encrypted content to the device 2001.
[462]   In operation S4605, the device 2001 may obtain second biometric information of the
      second user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2001 may obtain the
      second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2001.
[463]   In operation S4606, the device 2001 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[464]   In operation S4607, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[465]   In operation S4608, the device 2001 may decrypt the content encryption key by using
      the second decryption key. In operation S4609, the device 2001 may decrypt the
      encrypted content by using the decrypted content encryption key.
[466]   The one or more exemplary embodiments described above are only examples and
      thus are not limited thereto. Also, the orders of the operations of the methods described
      above are not limited, and at least one operation may be omitted, an operation may be
      added to the method, or the order may be changed, according to one or more
      exemplary embodiments.
[467]   FIG. 47 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another exemplary
      embodiment.
[468]   FIG. 47 is a table for describing a method of decrypting content after the content is
      encrypted. The controller 130 may decrypt the content by using first biometric in
      formation of a first user.
[469]   In detail, when user authentication has succeeded by using the first biometric in
      formation, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (KeyA) by using base
      first biometric information pre-stored in a memory. The controller 130 may decrypt an
      encrypted encryption key, i.e., E[key-con]keyA, by using the decryption key
      (KeyA). The controller 130 may decrypt encrypted content, i.e., E[content]key-con,
      by using the decrypted encryption key, i.e., Keycon.
[470]   Also, the controller 130 may decrypt the content by using second biometric in
      formation of a second user.
[471]   In detail, when user authentication has succeeded by using the second biometric in
      formation, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (KeyB) by using base
      second biometric information pre-stored in a memory. The controller 130 may decrypt
      an encrypted encryption key, i.e., E[key-con]key_B, by using the decryption key

                                            48
      (KeyB). The controller 130 may decrypt the encrypted content, i.e.,
      E[content]key-con, by using the decrypted encryption key, i.e., Keycon.
[472]   FIGS. 48 through 50 are flowcharts of a method of setting security on content,
      according to other exemplary embodiments.
[473]   Referring to FIG. 48, in operation S4801, the device 100 according to an exemplary
      embodiment may obtain first biometric information of a user. According to an
      exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 of the device 100 may obtain the first
      biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[474]   In operation S4802, the controller 130 may perform user authentication by using the
      first biometric information.
[475]   In operation S4803, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may obtain a first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric information.
      Here, the first encryption key may be a value generated by using base first biometric
      information pre-stored in the memory 170.
[476]   In operation S4804, the device 100 may encrypt content by using the first encryption
      key.
[477]   In operation S4805, a second device 2002 according to an exemplary embodiment
      may obtain second biometric information of the user. According to an exemplary em
      bodiment, the controller 130 of the second device 2002 may obtain the second
      biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the second device 2002.
[478]   In operation S4806, the controller 130 of the second device 2002 may perform user
      authentication by using the second biometric information.
[479]   In operation S4807, when the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may obtain a second encryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. Here, the second encryption key may be a value generated by using base
      second biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170.
[480]   In operation S4808, the device 100 may receive the second encryption key from the
      second device 2002. In operation S4809, the device 100 may double-encrypt the
      encrypted content by using the second encryption key. In operation S4810, the device
      100 may store the double-encrypted content.
[481]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100 may double-encrypt the
      content by using the second biometric information after encrypting the content by
      using the first biometric information.
[482]   The device 100 and the second device 2002 may be used by the same user or
      different users.
[483]   In FIG. 49, the device 100 obtains first biometric information from an external
      device, i.e., a third device 2006.
[484]   Referring to FIG. 49, in operation S4901, the third device 2006 according to an

                                            49
      exemplary embodiment may obtain first biometric information of a user. According to
      an exemplary embodiment, the third device 2006 may obtain the first biometric in
      formation from a biometrics module provided in the third device 2006.
[485]   In operation S4902, the third device 2006 may perform user authentication by using
      the first biometric information.
[486]   In operation S4903, when the user authentication has succeeded, the third device
      2006 may obtain a first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric in
      formation. Here, the first encryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170.
[487]   In operation S4904, the third device 2006 may transmit the first encryption key to the
      device 100.
[488]   In operation S4905, the device 100 may encrypt content by using the first encryption
      key.
[489]   Meanwhile, in operation S4906, the second device 2002 according to an exemplary
      embodiment may obtain second biometric information of the user. According to an
      exemplary embodiment, the second device 2002 may obtain the second biometric in
      formation from a biometrics module provided in the second device 200.
[490]   In operation S4907, the second device 2002 may perform user authentication by
      using the second biometric information.
[491]   In operation S4908, when the user authentication has succeeded, the second device
      2002 may obtain a second encryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. Here, the second encryption key may be a value generated by using base
      second biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170.
[492]   In operation S4909, the second device 2002 may transmit the second encryption key
      to the device 100.
[493]   In operation S4910, the device 100 may double-encrypt the encrypted content by
      using the second encryption key. In operation S491 1, the device 100 may store the
      double-encrypted content.
[494]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100 may double-encrypt the
      content by using the second biometric information after encrypting the content by
      using the first biometric information.
[495]   The device 100 and the second device 2002 may be used by the same user or
      different users.
[496]   According to another exemplary embodiment, in FIG. 50, the device 100 double
      encrypts content based on a plurality of pieces of biometric information.
[497]   In operation S5001, the device 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      obtain first biometric information of a user. According to an exemplary embodiment,
      the device 100 may obtain the first biometric information from a biometrics module

                                            50
      provided in the device 100.
[498]   In operation S5002, the device 100 may perform user authentication by using the first
      biometric information.
[499]   In operation S5003, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 100 may
      obtain a first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. Here, the
      first encryption key may be a value generated by using base first biometric information
      pre-stored in the memory 170.
[500]   In operation S5004, the device 100 may encrypt content by using the first encryption
      key.
[501]   Also, in operation S5005, the device 100 may obtain second biometric information of
      the user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100 may obtain the
      second biometric information from another biometrics module provided in the device
      100.
[502]   In operation S5006, the device 100 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[503]   In operation S5007, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 100 may
      obtain a second encryption key corresponding to the second biometric information.
      Here, the second encryption key may be a value generated by using base second
      biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170.
[504]   In operation S5008, the device 100 may double-encrypt the encrypted content by
      using the second encryption key. In operation S5009, the device 100 may store the
      double-encrypted content.
[505]   FIGS. 51 through 53 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according to
      other exemplary embodiments.
[506]   FIG. 51 is a flowchart of a decrypting method corresponding to the encrypting
      method described above with reference to FIG. 48.
[507]   According to an exemplary embodiment, double-encrypted content may be decrypted
      via a decryption process using a first decryption key and a decryption process using a
      second decryption key.
[508]   In operation S5101, the device 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      store double-encrypted content.
[509]   In operation S5102, the device 100 may obtain first biometric information of a user.
      According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100 may obtain the first biometric
      information from a biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[510]   In operation S5103, the device 100 may perform user authentication by using the first
      biometric information.
[511]   In operation S5104, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 100 may
      obtain a first decryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For

                                            51
      example, the first decryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory,
[512]   Meanwhile, in operation S5105, in order to decrypt the double-encrypted content, the
      device 100 may send a request to the second device 2002 for a second decryption key.
      Also, in operation S5106, the second device 2002 may obtain second biometric in
      formation of the user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the second device 200
      may obtain the second biometric infonnation from a biometrics module provided in the
      second device 200.
[513]   In operation S5107, the second device 2002 may perfonn user authentication by
      using the second biometric information.
[514]   In operation S5108, when the user authentication has succeeded, the second device
      2002 may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      fonnation. For example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[515]   In operation S5109, the second device 2002 may transmit the second decryption key
      to the device 100. In operation S5110, the device 100 may decrypt the double
      encrypted content by using the first and second decryption keys. For example, the
      device 100 may decrypt the double-encrypted content (for example,
      E[E[content]KeyA]KeyB) by using the first decryption key (for example, KeyA)
      and the second decryption key (for example, KeyB).
[516]   FIG. 52 is a flowchart of a decrypting method corresponding to the encrypting
      method described above with reference to FIG. 49.
[517]   According to an exemplary embodiment, double-encrypted content may be decrypted
      via a decryption process using a first decryption key and a decryption process using a
      second decryption key.
[518]   In operation S5201, the device 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      store double-encrypted content. In operation S5202, in order to decrypt the double
      encrypted content, the device 100 may send a request to the third device 2006 for a
      first decryption key.
[519]   Meanwhile, in operation S5203, the third device 2006 may obtain first biometric in
      formation of a user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the third device 2006
      may obtain the first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the
      third device 2006.
[520]   In operation S5204, the third device 2006 may perform user authentication by using
      the first biometric information.
[521]   In operation S5205, when the user authentication has succeeded, the third device
      2006 may obtain a first decryption key corresponding to the first biometric in
      formation. For example, the first decryption key may be a value generated by using

                                            52
      base first biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[522]   In operation S5206, the third device 2006 may transmit the first decryption key to the
      device 100.
[523]   Meanwhile, in operation S5207, in order to decrypt the double-encrypted content, the
      device 100 may send a request to the second device 2002 for a second decryption key.
[524]   In operation S5208, the second device 2002 may obtain second biometric in
      formation of the user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the second device 2002
      may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the
      second device 200.
[525]   In operation S5209, the device 2002 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information
[526]   In operation S5210, when the user authentication has succeeded, the second device
      200 may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[527]   In operation S521 1. the second device 2002 may transmit the second decryption key
      to the device 100.
[528]   In operation S5212, upon receiving the first and second decryption keys, the device
      100 may decrypt the double-encrypted content by using the first and second decryption
      keys. For example, the device 100 may decrypt the double-encrypted content (for
      example, E[E[content]KeyA]KeyB) by using the first decryption key (for example,
      KeyA) and the second decryption key (for example, Key_B).
[529]   In FIG. 53, the first device 100 requests the second device 2002 to decrypt content.
[530]   According to an exemplary embodiment, double-encrypted content may be decrypted
      via a decryption process using a first decryption key and a decryption process using a
      second decryption key.
[531]   In operation S5301, the device 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      store double-encrypted content.
[532]   In operation S5302, the device 100 may request the second device 2002 to decrypt
      the double-encrypted content while transmitting the double-encrypted content.
[533]   In operation S5303, the second device 2002 may obtain second biometric in
      formation of a user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the second device 2002
      may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the
      second device 2002.
[534]   In operation S5304, the second device 2002 may perform user authentication by
      using the second biometric information.
[535]   In operation S5305, when the user authentication has succeeded, the second device
      2002 may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric in-

                                             53
      formation. For example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[536]   In operation S5306, the second device 2002 may perform first decryption on the
      double-encrypted content by using the second decryption key. For example, the second
      device 2002 may decrypt the double-encrypted content based on the second biometric
      information obtained by the second device 200.
[537]   In operation S5310, the second device 2002 may transmit the double-encrypted
      content on which the first decryption is performed to the device 100.
[538]   Meanwhile, in operation S5307, the first device 100 may obtain first biometric in
      formation of the user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100 may
      obtain the first biometrics information from a biometrics module provided in the
      device 100.
[539]   In operation S5308, the device 100 may perform user authentication by using the first
      biometric information.
[540]   In operation S5309, when the user authentication has succeeded, the first device 100
      may obtain a first decryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first decryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[541]   In operation S5311, the device 100 may perform second decryption on the double
      encrypted content on which the first encryption has been performed, by using the first
      decryption key. For example, the device 100 may decrypt the double-encrypted content
      on which the first decryption has been performed (for example, E[content]KeyA]) by
      using the first decryption key (for example, KeyA).
[542]   The one or more exemplary embodiments described above are only examples and
      thus are not limited thereto. Also, the orders of the operations of the methods described
      above are not limited, and at least one operation may be omitted, an operation may be
      added to the method, or the order may be changed, according to one or more
      exemplary embodiments.
[543]   FIG. 54 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another exemplary
      embodiment.
[544]   FIG. 54 is a table for describing a method of decrypting content after encrypting the
      content according to the one or more exemplary embodiments described above with
      reference to FIGS. 48 through 53.
[545]   The controller 130 may decrypt content by using first biometric information and
      second biometric information.
[546]   In detail, when user authentication has succeeded by using the first biometric in
      formation, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (KeyA) by using base
      first biometric information pre-stored in a memory. Also, when user authentication has

                                            54
      succeeded by using the second biometric information, the controller 130 may generate
      a decryption key (KeyB) by using base second biometric information pre-stored in a
      memory.
[547]   The controller 130 may decrypt double-encrypted content
      (E[E[content]keyA]KeyB) by using the decryption key (KeyB), and then decrypt
      the content (E[content]keyA) by using the decryption key (KeyA), thereby de
      crypting the double-encrypted content E[E[content]keyA]KeyB.
[548]   As another example, double-encrypted content (E[E[content]KeyB]KeyA) may be
      decrypted by using the decryption key (KeyA), and then decrypted by using the de
      cryption key (KeyB).
[549]   FIGS. 55 and 56 are flowcharts of an encrypting method for setting security,
      according to other exemplary embodiments. In FIGS. 55 and 56, content is encrypted
      by using an encryption key that is generated by combining a plurality of encryption
      keys based on a plurality of pieces of biometric information.
[550]   Referring to FIG. 55, in operation S5501, the device 100 may obtain first biometric
      information of a user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100 may
      obtain the first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device
      100.
[551]   In operation S5502, the device 100 may perform user authentication by using the first
      biometric information.
[552]   In operation S5503, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 100 may
      obtain a first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first encryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[553]   Meanwhile, in operation S5504, the second device 2202 may obtain second
      biometric information of the user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the second
      device 2002 may obtain second biometric information from a biometrics module
      provided in the second device 2002.
[554]   In operation S5505, the second device 2002 may perform user authentication by
      using the second biometric information.
[555]   In operation S5506, when the user authentication has succeeded, the second device
      2002 may obtain a second encryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second encryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[556]   In operation S5507, the second device 2002 may transmit the second encryption key
      to the device 100.
[557]   In operation S5508, the device 100 may generate a third encryption key by
      combining the first encryption key and the second encryption key.

                                            55
[558]   In operation S5509, the device 100 may encrypt content by using the third encryption
      key.
[559]   In operation S5510. The device 100 may store the encrypted content.
[560]   Referring to FIG. 56, the device 100 obtains first biometric information from an
      external device (the third device 2006).
[561]   In operation S5601, the third device 2006 may obtain first biometric information of a
      user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the third device 2006 may obtain the
      first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the third device
      2006.
[562]   In operation S5602, the third device 2006 may perform user authentication by using
      the first biometric information.
[563]   In operation S5603, when the user authentication has succeeded, the third device
      2006 may obtain a first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric in
      formation. For example, the first encryption key may be a value generated by using
      base first biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[564]   In operation S5604, the third device 2006 may transmit the first encryption key to the
      device 100.
[565]   Meanwhile, in operation S5605, the second device 2202 may obtain second
      biometric information of the user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the second
      device 2002 may obtain second biometric information from a biometrics module
      provided in the second device 2002.
[566]   In operation S5606, the second device 2002 may perform user authentication by
      using the second biometric information.
[567]   In operation S5607, when the user authentication has succeeded, the second device
      2002 may obtain a second encryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second encryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[568]   In operation S5608, the second device 2002 may transmit the second encryption key
      to the device 100.
[569]   In operation S5609, the device 100 may generate a third encryption key by
      combining the first encryption key and the second encryption key. In operation S5610.
      the device 100 may encrypt content by using the third encryption key. In operation
      S56110. The device 100 may store the encrypted content.
[570]   FIGS. 57 through 59 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according to
      other exemplary embodiments.
[571]   FIG. 57 is a flowchart for describing a decrypting method corresponding to an en
      crypting method described above with reference to FIG. 55.
[572]   In operation S5701, the device 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may

                                            56
      store encrypted content.
[573]   In operation S5702, the device 100 may obtain first biometric information of a user.
      According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100 may obtain the first biometric
      information from a biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[574]   In operation S5703, the device 100 may perform user authentication by using the first
      biometric information.
[575]   In operation S5704, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 100 may
      obtain first decryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first decryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[576]   In operation S5705, the device 100 may send a request to the second device 2002 for
      a second decryption key.
[577]   In operation S5706, the second device 2002 may obtain second biometric in
      formation of the user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the second device 2002
      may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the
      second device 2002.
[578]   In operation S5707, the second device 2002 may perform user authentication by
      using the second biometric information.
[579]   In operation S5708, when the user authentication has succeeded, the second device
      2002 may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[580]   In operation S5709, the second device 2002 may transmit the second decryption key
      to the device 100.
[581]   In operation S5710, the device 100 may generate a third decryption key by
      combining the second decryption key received from the second device 2002 and the
      first decryption key obtained in operation S5704.
[582]   In operation S5711, the device 100 may decrypt the encrypted content by using the
      third decryption key.
[583]   FIG. 58 is a flowchart for describing a decrypting method corresponding to an en
      crypting method described above with reference to FIG. 56.
[584]   The device 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may receive a first de
      cryption key corresponding to first biometric information of a user from an external
      device (the third device 2006).
[585]   In operation S5801, the device 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      store encrypted content.
[586]   In operation S5802, the device 100 may send a request to the third device 2006 for a
      first decryption key.

                                           57
[587]   In operation S5803, the third device 2006 may obtain first biometric information of a
      user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the third device 2006 may obtain the
      first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the third device
      2006.
[588]   In operation S5804, the third device 2006 may perform user authentication by using
      the first biometric information.
[589]   In operation S5805, when the user authentication has succeeded, the third device
      2006 may obtain first decryption key corresponding to the first biometric information.
      For example, the first decryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[590]   In operation S5806, the third device 2006 may transmit the first decryption key to the
      device 100.
[591]   Meanwhile, in order to decrypt the encrypted content, in operation S5807, the device
      100 may send a request to the second device 2002 for a second decryption key. In
      operation S5808, the second device 2002 may obtain second biometric information of
      the user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the second device 2002 may obtain
      the second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the second
      device 2002.
[592]   In operation S5809, the second device 2002 may perform user authentication by
      using the second biometric information.
[593]   In operation S5810, when the user authentication has succeeded, the second device
      2002 may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[594]   In operation S5811, the second device 2002 may transmit the second decryption key
      to the device 100.
[595]   In operation S5812, the device 100 may generate a third decryption key by
      combining the first decryption key received in operation 85806 and the second de
      cryption key received in operation S5811.
[596]   In operation S5813, the device 100 may decrypt the encrypted content by using the
      third decryption key.
[597]   In FIG. 59, the second device 2002 decrypts encrypted content.
[598]   In operation S5901, the device 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      store encrypted content.
[599]   In operation S5902, the second device 2002 that is to access the encrypted content
      may send a request to the device 100 for the encrypted content.
[600]   In operation S5903, the device 100 may transmit the encrypted content to the second
      device 2002.

                                             58
[601]   Also, in order to decrypt the encrypted content, in operation S5904, the second
      device 200 may send a request to the device 100 for a first decryption key.
[602]   In operation S5905, the device 100 may obtain first biometric information of a user.
      According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 100 may obtain the first biometric
      information from a biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[603]   In operation S5906, the device 100 may perform user authentication by using the first
      biometric information.
[604]   In operation S5907, when user authentication has succeeded, the device 100 may
      obtain a first decryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first decryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[605]   In operation S5911, the device 100 may transmit the first decryption key to the
      second device 2002.
[606]   Meanwhile, in operation S5908, the second device 2002 may obtain second
      biometric information of the user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the second
      device 2002 may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module
      provided in the second device 2002.
[607]   In operation S5909, the second device 2002 may perform user authentication by
      using the second biometric information.
[608]   In operation S5910, when the user authentication has succeeded, the second device
      2002 may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[609]   In operation S5912, the second device 2002 may generate a third decryption key by
      combining the first decryption key received in operation S5911 and the second de
      cryption key obtained in operation S59 10.
[610]   In operation S5913, the second device 2002 may decrypt the encrypted content by
      using the third decryption key.
[611]   The one or more exemplary embodiments described above are only examples and
      thus are not limited thereto. Also, the orders of the operations of the methods described
      above are not limited, and at least one operation may be omitted, an operation may be
      added to the method, or the order may be changed, according to one or more
      exemplary embodiments.
[612]   FIG. 60 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another exemplary
      embodiment.
[613]   In other words, FIG. 60 is a table for describing a method of decrypting content after
      encrypting the content according to the exemplary embodiments described above with
      reference to FIGS. 55 through 59.

                                            59
[614]   The controller 130 may decrypt content by using first biometric information and
      second biometric information.
[615]   In detail, when user authentication has succeeded by using the first biometric in
      formation, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (KeyA) by using base
      first biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[616]   Also, when user authentication has succeeded by using the second biometric in
      formation, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (KeyB) by using base
      second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[617]   The controller 130 may generate a combination decryption key by combining the de
      cryption keys, i.e., KeyA and KeyB. The controller 130 may decrypt encrypted
      content, i.e., E [content]keyA+KeyB by using the combination decryption key.
      Here, "E[content]KeyA+KeyB" indicates content encrypted by using an encryption
      key generated by combining KeyA and KeyB.
[618]   FIGS. 61 and 62 are flowcharts of an encrypting method for setting security,
      according to other exemplary embodiments.
[619]   In FIGS. 61 and 62, when content is encrypted by a plurality of users, for example, N
      users, the content may be decrypted by all of the plurality of users, for example, the N
      users.
[620]   A device 2003 of a first user, according to an exemplary embodiment, may encrypt
      content based on first through third biometric information respectively of first through
      third users.
[621]   Referring to FIG. 61, in operation S6101, the device 2003 may obtain the first
      biometric information of the first user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the
      device 2003 may obtain the first biometric information from a biometrics module
      provided in the device 2003.
[622]   In operation S6102, the device 2003 may perform user authentication by using the
      first biometric information.
[623]   In operation S6103, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2003
      may obtain a first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first encryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[624]   Meanwhile, in operation S6104, a device 2004 of the second user may obtain the
      second biometric information of the second user. According to an exemplary em
      bodiment, the device 2004 may obtain the second biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 2004.
[625]   In operation S6105, the device 2004 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[626]   In operation S6106, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2004

                                           60
      may obtain an encryption key corresponding to the second biometric information. For
      example, the second encryption key may be a value generated by using base second
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[627]   In operation S6 110, the device 2004 may transmit the second encryption key to the
      device 2003.
[628]   Also, in operation S6107, a device 2005 of the third user may obtain the third
      biometric information of the third user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the
      device 2005 may obtain the third biometric information from a biometrics module
      provided in the device 2005.
[629]   In operation S6108, the device 2005 may perform user authentication by using the
      third biometric information.
[630]   In operation S6109, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2005
      may obtain a third encryption key corresponding to the third biometric information.
      For example, the third encryption key may be a value generated by using base third
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[631]   In operation S61 11, the device 2005 may transmit the third encryption key to the
      device 2003.
[632]   Meanwhile, in operation S6112, the device 2003 may generate a fourth encryption
      key by combining the first encryption key obtained in operation S6103, the second en
      cryption key received in operation S6 110, and the third encryption key received in
      operation S6111.
[633]   In operation S6113, the device 2003 may encrypt content by using the fourth en
      cryption key. In operation S6114, the device 2003 may store the encrypted content.
[634]   In FIG. 62, the server 200 encrypts content.
[635]   In operation S6201, the device 2003 may obtain the first biometric information of the
      first user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2003 may obtain the
      first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2003.
[636]   In operation S6202, the device 2003 may perform user authentication by using the
      first biometric information.
[637]   In operation S6203, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2003
      may obtain a first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first encryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[638]   In operation S6204, the device 2003 may transmit the first encryption key to the
      server 200.
[639]   Meanwhile, in operation S6205, the device 2004 may obtain the second biometric in
      formation of the second user. According to an exemplary embodiment. the device 2004
      may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the

                                           61
      device 2004.
[640]   In operation S6206, the device 2004 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[641]   In operation S6207, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2004
      may obtain an encryption key corresponding to the second biometric information. For
      example, the second encryption key may be a value generated by using base second
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[642]   In operation S6208, the device 2004 may transmit the second encryption key to the
      server 200.
[643]   Also, in operation S6209, the device 2005 may obtain the third biometric information
      of the third user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2005 may obtain
      the third biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2005.
[644]   In operation S6210, the device 2005 may perform user authentication by using the
      third biometric information.
[645]   In operation S6211, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2005
      may obtain a third encryption key corresponding to the third biometric information.
      For example, the third encryption key may be a value generated by using base third
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[646]   In operation S6212, the device 2005 may transmit the third encryption key to the
      server 200.
[647]   Meanwhile, in operation S6213, the server 200 may generate a fourth encryption key
      by combining the first encryption key received in operation S6204, the second en
      cryption key received in operation S6208, and the third encryption key received in
      operation S6212. In operation S6214, the server 200 may encrypt content by using the
      fourth encryption key. In operation S6215, the server 200 may store the encrypted
      content.
[648]   FIGS. 63 and 64 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according to other
      exemplary embodiments.
[649]   Referring to FIG. 63, the device 2003 decrypts content.
[650]   In operation S6301, the device 2003 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      store encrypted content.
[651]   In operation S6302, the device 2003 may obtain first biometric information of the
      first user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2003 may obtain the
      first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2003.
[652]   In operation S6303, the device 2003 may perform user authentication by using the
      first biometric information.
[653]   In operation S6304, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2003
      may obtain a first decryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For

                                           62
      example, the first decryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre- stored in a memory.
[654]   In operation S6305, in order to decrypt the encrypted content, the device 2003 may
      send a request to the device 2004 for a second decryption key.
[655]   In operation S6306, the device 2004 may obtain second biometric information of the
      second user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2004 may obtain the
      second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2004.
[656]   In operation S6307, the device 2004 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[657]   In operation S6308, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2004
      may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[658]   In operation S6309, the device 2004 may transmit the second decryption key to the
      device 2003.
[659]   Meanwhile, in operation S63 10, in order to decrypt the encrypted content, the device
      2003 may send a request to the device 2005 for a third decryption key. In operation
      S63 11, the device 2005 may obtain third biometric information of the third user.
      According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2005 may obtain the third
      biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2005.
[660]   In operation S6312, the device 2005 may perform user authentication by using the
      third biometric information.
[661]   In operation S6313, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2005
      may obtain a third decryption key corresponding to the third biometric information.
      For example, the third decryption key may be a value generated by using base third
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[662]   In operation S6314, the device 2005 may transmit the third decryption key to the
      device 2003.
[663]   In operation S6315, the device 2003 may generate a fourth decryption key by
      combining the first decryption key obtained in operation S6304, the second decryption
      key received in operation S6309, and the third decryption key received in operation
      S6314. In operation S6316, the device 2003 may decrypt the encrypted content by
      using the fourth decryption key.
[664]   Referring to FIG. 64, the server 200 decrypts content.
[665]   In operation S6401, the server 200 according to an exemplary embodiment may store
      encrypted content. In operation S6402, in order to decrypt the encrypted content, the
      server 200 may request the device 2003 for a first decryption key.
[666]   In operation S6403, the device 2003 may obtain first biometric information of the

                                           63
      first user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2003 may obtain the
      first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2003.
[667]   In operation S6404, the device 2003 may perform user authentication by using the
      first biometric information.
[668]   In operation S6405, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2003
      may obtain a first decryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first decryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[669]   In operation S6406, the device 2003 may transmit the first decryption key to the
      server 200.
[670]   Meanwhile, in operation S6407, in order to decrypt the encrypted content, the server
      200 may send a request to the device 2004 for a second decryption key. In operation
      S6408, the device 2004 may obtain second biometric information of the second user.
      According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2004 may obtain the second
      biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2004.
[671]   In operation S6409, the device 2004 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[672]   In operation S6410, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2004
      may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[673]   In operation S6411, the device 2004 may transmit the second decryption key to the
      server 200.
[674]   Meanwhile, in operation S6412, in order to decrypt the encrypted content, the server
      200 may send a request to the device 2005 for a third decryption key. In operation
      S6413, the device 2005 may obtain third biometric information of the third user.
      According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2005 may obtain the third
      biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2005.
[675]   In operation S6414, the device 2005 may perform user authentication by using the
      third biometric information.
[676]   In operation S6415, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2005
      may obtain a third decryption key corresponding to the third biometric information.
      For example, the third decryption key may be a value generated by using base third
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[677]   In operation S6416, the device 2005 may transmit the third decryption key to the
      device 2003.
[678]   In operation S6417, the server 200 may generate a fourth decryption key by
      combining the first decryption key received in operation S6406, the second decryption

                                             64
      key received in operation S64 11, and the third decryption key received in operation
      S6416.
[679]   In operation S6418, the server 200 may decrypt the encrypted content by using the
      fourth decryption key.
[680]   The one or more exemplary embodiments described above are only examples and
      thus are not limited thereto. Also, the orders of the operations of the methods described
      above are not limited, and at least one operation may be omitted, an operation may be
      added to the method, or the order may be changed, according to one or more
      exemplary embodiments.
[681]   FIG. 65 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another exemplary
      embodiment.
[682]   In other words, FIG. 65 is a table for describing a method of decrypting content after
      encrypting the content according to the one or more exemplary embodiments described
      above with reference to FIGS. 61 through 64.
[683]   The controller 130 may decrypt content based on biometric information of a first
      user, biometric information of a second user, and biometric information of a third user.
[684]   In detail, when user authentication has succeeded by using the biometric information
      of the first user, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (Key-l) by using
      base biometric information of the first user pre-stored in a memory.
[685]   When user authentication has succeeded by using the biometric information of the
      second user, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (Key_2) by using base
      biometric information of the second user pre-stored in a memory. Also, when user au
      thentication has succeeded by using the biometric information of the third user, the
      controller 130 may generate a decryption key (Key_3) by using base biometric in
      formation of the third user pre-stored in a memory.
[686]   Then, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (Key_4) by combining
      Keyjl, Key_2, and Key_3.
[687]   Encrypted content (for example, E[content]Key_4) may be decrypted by using the
      decryption key (Key_4). Here, "E[content]Key_4" indicates content encrypted by
      using 'Key_4'.
[688]   FIGS. 66 and 67 are flowcharts of an encrypting method for setting security,
      according to other exemplary embodiments.
[689]   In FIGS. 66 through 69, when content is encrypted by a plurality of users (for
      example, N users), the content may be decrypted by some of the plurality of users (for
      example, k users from among the N users).
[690]   Referring to FIG. 66, in operation S6601, a device 2007 of a first user may generate a
      content encryption key. The content encryption key may be a key randomly generated
      by a system for encrypting content, i..e, the device 2007.

                                           65
[691]   In operation S6602, the device 2007 may encrypt content by using the content en
      cryption key.
[692]   In operation S6603, the device 2007 may obtain first biometric information of the
      first user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2007 may obtain the
      first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2007.
[693]   In operation S6604, the device 2007 may perform user authentication by using the
      first biometric information.
[694]   In operation S6605, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2007
      may obtain a first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first encryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[695]   Meanwhile, in operation S6606, a device 2008 of a second device may obtain second
      biometric information of the second user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the
      device 2008 may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module
      provided in the device 2008.
[696]   In operation S6607, the device 2007 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[697]   In operation S6608, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2008
      may obtain a second encryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second encryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[698]   In operation S6609, the device 2008 may transmit the second encryption key to the
      device 2007.
[699]   Also, in operation S6610, a device 2009 of a third user may obtain third biometric in
      formation of the third user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2009
      may obtain the third biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the
      device 2009.
[700]   In operation S661 1, the device 2009 may perform user authentication by using the
      third biometric information.
[701]   In operation S6612, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2009
      may obtain a third encryption key corresponding to the third biometric information.
      For example, the third encryption key may be a value generated by using base third
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[702]   In operation S6613, the device 2009 may transmit the third encryption key to the
      device 2007.
[703]   In operation S6614, the device 2007 may generate a fourth encryption key by
      combining some of the first through third encryption keys. The fourth encryption keys
      may be generated as much as the number of NCK combinations (the number of com-

                                           66
      binations of selecting K from among N).
[704]   For example, a device may be set content such that the content is encrypted by three
      users and is decrypted by two users. In this case, 3C2 encryption keys (fourth en
      cryption keys) may be generated. For example, an encryption key in which first and
      second encryption keys are combined, an encryption key in which first and third en
      cryption keys are combined, and an encryption key in which second and third en
      cryption keys are combined may be generated.
[705]   In operation S6615, the device 2007 may encrypt the content encryption key by using
      the fourth encryption key. In operation S6616, the device 2007 may store the encrypted
      encryption key. In operation S6617, the device 2007 may store the encrypted content.
[706]   Referring to FIG. 67, a server 2000 generates a content encryption key and encrypts
      content.
[707]   In operation S6701, the server 2000 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      generate a content encryption key. The content encryption key may be a key randomly
      generated by a system for encrypting content, i..e, the server 2000. In operation S6702,
      the server 2000 may encrypt content by using the content encryption key.
[708]   In operation S6703, the device 2007 may obtain first biometric information of the
      first user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2007 may obtain the
      first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2007.
[709]   In operation S6704, the device 2007 may perform user authentication by using the
      first biometric information.
[710]   In operation S6705, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2007
      may obtain a first encryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first encryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[711]   In operation S6706, the device 2008 may transmit the first encryption key to the
      server 2000.
[712]   Meanwhile, in operation S6707, the device 2008 may obtain second biometric in
      formation of the second user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2008
      may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the
      device 2008.
[713]   In operation S6708, the device 2007 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[714]   In operation S6709, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2008
      may obtain a second encryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second encryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[715]   In operation S6710, the device 2008 may transmit the second encryption key to the

                                            67
      server 2000.
[716]   Also, in operation S67 11, the device 2009 may obtain third biometric information of
      the third user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2009 may obtain the
      third biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2009.
[717]   In operation S6712, the device 2009 may perform user authentication by using the
      third biometric information.
[718]   In operation S6713, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2009
      may obtain a third encryption key corresponding to the third biometric information.
      For example, the third encryption key may be a value generated by using base third
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[719]   In operation S6714, the device 2009 may transmit the third encryption key to the
      server 2000.
[720]   In operation S6715, the server 2000 may generate a fourth encryption key by
      combining some of the first through third encryption keys. The fourth encryption keys
      may be generated as much as the number of NCK combinations (the number of com
      binations of selecting K from among N).
[721]   For example, a server may be set content such that the content is encrypted by three
      users and is decrypted by two users. In this case, 3C2 encryption keys (fourth en
      cryption keys) may be generated. For example, an encryption key in which first and
      second encryption keys are combined, an encryption key in which first and third en
      cryption keys are combined, and an encryption key in which second and third en
      cryption keys are combined may be generated.
[722]   In operation S6716, the server 2000 may encrypt the content encryption key by using
      the fourth encryption key. In operation S6717, the server 2000 may store the encrypted
      encryption key. In operation S6718, the server 2000 may store the encrypted content.
[723]   FIGS. 68 and 69 are flowcharts of a method of decrypting content, according to other
      exemplary embodiments.
[724]   Referring to FIG. 68, the device 2007 decrypts encrypted content.
[725]   In operation S6801, the device 2007 may store an encrypted content encryption key.
      In operation S6802, the device 2007 may store encrypted content.
[726]   In operation S6803, the device 2007 may obtain first biometric information of the
      first user. According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2007 may obtain the
      first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2007.
[727]   In operation S6804, the device 2007 may perform user authentication by using the
      first biometric information.
[728]   In operation S6805, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2007
      may obtain a first decryption key corTesponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first decryption key may be a value generated by using base first

                                             68
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[729]   Meanwhile, in operation S6806, in order to decrypt the encrypted content, the device
      2007 may request the device 2008 for a second decryption key. In operation S6807, the
      device 2008 may obtain second biometric information of the second user. According to
      an exemplary embodiment, the device 2008 may obtain the second biometric in
      formation from a biometrics module provided in the device 2008.
[730]   In operation S6808, the device 2008 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[731]   In operation S6809, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2008
      may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[732]   In operation S68 10, the device 2008 may transmit the second decryption key to the
      device 2007.
[733]   In operation S68 11, the device 2007 may generate a fourth decryption key by
      combining the first and second decryption keys. In operation S6812, the device 2007
      may decrypt the encrypted content encryption key by using the fourth decryption key.
      In operation S6813, the device 2007 may decrypt the encrypted content by using the
      decrypted content encryption key.
[734]   In FIGS. 68 and 69, content is encrypted by three users and decrypted by two users.
      In FIG. 68, a device of a first user decrypts content, but an exemplary embodiment is
      not limited thereto. In other words, a device of a second user or a third user may
      decrypt content.
[735]   Referring to FIG. 69, the server 200 decrypts encrypted content.
[736]   In operation S6901, the server 200 may store an encrypted content encryption key. In
      operation S6902, the server 200 may store encrypted content.
[737]   In order to decrypt the encrypted content, in operation S6903, the server 200 may
      send a request to the device 2007 for a first decryption key. In operation S6904, the
      device 2007 may obtain first biometric information of the first user. According to an
      exemplary embodiment, the device 2007 may obtain the first biometric information
      from a biometrics module provided in the device 2007.
[738]   In operation S6905, the device 2007 may perform user authentication by using the
      first biometric information.
[739]   In operation S6906, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2007
      may obtain a first decryption key corresponding to the first biometric information. For
      example, the first decryption key may be a value generated by using base first
      biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[740]   In operation S6907, the device 2007 may transmit the first decryption key to the

                                             69
      server 200.
[741]   Meanwhile, in operation S6908, in order to decrypt the encrypted content, the server
      200 may send a request to the device 2008 for a second decryption key. In operation
      S6909, the device 2008 may obtain second biometric information of the second user.
      According to an exemplary embodiment, the device 2008 may obtain the second
      biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 2008.
[742]   In operation S6910, the device 2008 may perform user authentication by using the
      second biometric information.
[743]   In operation S691 1, when the user authentication has succeeded, the device 2008
      may obtain a second decryption key corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation. For example, the second decryption key may be a value generated by using
      base second biometric information pre-stored in a memory.
[744]   In operation S6912, the device 2008 may transmit the second decryption key to the
      server 200.
[745]   In operation S6913, the server 200 may generate a fourth decryption key by
      combining the first and second decryption keys. In operation S6914, the server 200
      may decrypt the encrypted content encryption key by using the fourth decryption key.
      In operation S6915, the server 200 may decrypt the encrypted content by using the
      decrypted content encryption key.
[746]   FIG. 70 is a table for describing a decrypting method according to another exemplary
      embodiment.
[747]   FIG. 70 is a table for describing a method of decrypting content after the content is
      encrypted, according to the one or more exemplary embodiments described above with
      reference to FIGS. 66 through 69.
[748]   The controller 130 may decrypt content by using at least two pieces from among
      biometric information of a first user, biometric information of a second user, and
      biometric information of a third user.
[749]   In detail, when user authentication has succeeded by using the biometric information
      of the first user, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (Key-l) by using
      base biometric information of the first user pre-stored in a memory. Also, when user
      authentication has succeeded by using the biometric information of the second user,
      the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (Key_2) by using base biometric in
      formation of the second user pre-stored in a memory. Then, the controller 130 may
      generate a decryption key (Key_4') by combining Key-l and Key_2.
[750]   Also, when user authentication has succeeded by using the biometric information of
      the third user, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (Key_3) by using base
      biometric information of the third user pre- stored in a memory. Then, the controller
       130 may generate a decryption key (Key_4") by combining Key_2 and Key_3.

                                             70
[751]   Also, the controller 130 may generate a decryption key (Key_4'") by combining
      Key-l and Key_3.
[752]   An encrypted content encryption key (E[key-con]Key_4) may be decrypted by using
      Key_4', Key_4", or Key_4"'. Here, "E[key-con]Key_4" indicates a content en
      cryption key encrypted by using Key_4.
[753]   Encrypted content (E[content]Key-con) may be decrypted by using the decrypted
      content encryption key (key-con). Here, "E[content]Keycon" indicates content
      encrypted by using a content encryption key.
[754]   FIG. 71 is a flowchart of a method of setting security on content, according to
      another exemplary embodiment.
[755]   In operation S7101, the controller 130 of the device 100 may obtain first biometric
      information of a user.
[756]   In operation S7102, the controller 130 may generate a first security key by using the
      first biometric information.
[757]   The first security key may be a key generated by using feature information of the first
      biometric information, and may be a password or an encryption key.
[758]   A password or an encryption key may be a value generated by using at least a part of
      feature information of biometric information as a factor of a certain function.
[759]   Details about a method of generating a password or an encryption key are not
      described since a factor of a certain function may be replaced by feature information of
      biometric information obtained in operation S7 101, according to an exemplary em
      bodiment of generating the password or the encryption key by using feature in
      formation of pre-stored base biometric information as a factor of a certain function.
      Meanwhile, feature information of biometric information used in the method may be
      rougher than feature information of base biometric information. For example, when
      biometric information is a fingerprint, intervals of extracting feature points of a fin
      gerprint obtained by the feature information extractor 133 may be wider than intervals
      of extracting feature points of base biometric information.
[760]   Accordingly, even when base biometric information is not used, it is highly likely
      that a security key generated by using biometric information obtained while setting
      security and a security key generated by using biometric information obtained while
      removing security may match each other. When intervals of extracting feature points
      of a fingerprint obtained by the feature information extractor 133 increase, a possibility
      that values of security keys match each other may increase. The intervals of extracting
      the feature points may be pre-set by a manufacturer of the device 100, a provider of an
      application installed in the device 100, or a provider of an operating system installed in
      the device 100. Alternatively, the intervals may be assigned by a user through a UI.
      Meanwhile, the user may assign the intervals for each of a plurality of pieces of

                                             71
      biometric information.
[761]   In operation S7103, the controller 130 may set security on content by using the first
      security key. For example, when the first security key is a password, the first security
      key may be used to restrict access to the content. Alternatively, when the first security
      key is an encryption key, the first security key may be used to encrypt the content.
[762]   In operation S7104, the controller 130 may obtain second biometric information of
      the user, as another piece of biometric information.
[763]   In operation S7105, the controller 140 may generate a second security key by using
      the second biometric information.
[764]   The second security key is a key generated by using feature information of the
      second biometric information, and may be a password or an encryption key. Since a
      method of generating a password or an encryption key has been described above with
      reference to operation S7102, details thereof are not repeated.
[765]   Then, in operation S7106, the controller 130 may set security on the first security key
      by using the second security key. For example, when the second security key is a
      password, the second security key may be used to restrict access to the first security
      key. Alternatively, when the second security key is an encryption key, the second
      security key may be used to encrypt the first security key.
[766]   FIG. 72 is a flowchart of a method of removing security on content, according to
      another exemplary embodiment.
[767]   In operation S7201, the controller 130 of the device 100 may obtain second biometric
      information of a user.
[768]   In operation S7202, the controller 130 may generate a second security key by using
      the second biometric information. The second security key is a key generated by using
      feature information of the second biometric information, and may be a password or an
      encryption key.
[769]   In operation S7203, the controller 130 may remove security on a first security key by
      using the second security key. For example, when the second security key is a
      password, the second security key may be used to remove restriction on access to the
      first security key. Alternatively, when the second security key is a decryption key, the
      second security key may be used to decrypt the first security key.
[770]   In operation S7204, the controller 130 may remove security on content by using the
      first security key. For example, when the first security key is a password, the first
      security key may be used to remove restriction on access to the content. Alternatively,
      when the first security key is a decryption key, the first security key may be used to
      decrypt the content.
[771]   FIGS. 73 through 78 are diagrams for describing examples of a user input for
      executing content, according to exemplary embodiments.

                                             72
[772]   According to an exemplary embodiment, when security is set on content based on
      first biometric information of a user, the controller 130 of the device 100 may obtain
      second biometric information of the user, which is of a different type than the first
      biometric information, and remove the security based on the second biometric in
      formation., according to a user input for executing the content while removing the
      security.
[773]   According to an exemplary embodiment, a user input for executing content may be at
      least one of user inputs received during each process a screen is changed until the
      content is executed.
[774]   For example, referring to FIG. 73, the controller 130 may receive a user input of ac
      tivating the display unit 121. For example, the controller 130 may receive a user input
      of selecting, by a finger 173, a button 7301 mounted on one side of the device 100.
      Here, the activating of the display unit 121 means that an off-state of the display unit
       121 is changed to an on-state or the display unit 121 is no longer in a black screen.
[775]   When the user input for activating the display unit 121 is received, the controller 130
      may display, on the display unit 121, a notification screen for requesting the user to
      input the second biometric information for removing the security. Then, according to a
      signal for inputting the second biometric information, the controller 130 may receive
      the second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 100
      or from an external device through the communication unit 150. When the second
      biometric information is obtained through the biometrics module or the communication
      unit 150, the controller 130 may remove the security on the content based on the
      second biometric information.
[776]   Alternatively, when the user input is received, the controller 130 may display a lock
      screen 7401 on the display unit 121, as shown in FIG. 74. The lock screen 7401 may
      be a screen requesting the user to input a pattern or a password to remove a lock, a
      screen requesting input from the user, such as a drag gesture, to enter a home screen, or
      a screen requesting the user to input biometric information to remove security on
      content.
[777]   While the lock screen 7401 is displayed on the display unit 121, the controller 130
      may receive a user input for removing the lock screen 7401.
[778]   When the lock screen 7401 is a screen requesting the user to input the second
      biometric information to remove the security on the content, and a signal for inputting
      the second biometric information is input, the controller 130 may receive the second
      biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device 100 or from an
      external device through the communication unit 150. Upon obtaining the second
      biometric information, the controller 130 may remove the security on the content based
      on the second biometric information.

                                            73
[779]   Meanwhile, when the lock screen 7401 is the screen requesting the user to input a
      pattern or a password, and a user input of inputting, by a finger f74, the pattern or the
      password is received, the controller 130 may display a home screen 7501 on the
      display unit 121, as shown in FIG. 75.
[780]   While the home screen 7501 is displayed on the display unit 121, the controller 130
      may receive a user input of selecting, by a finger f75, identification (ID) information
      7501-1 of an application for executing the content. The application for executing the
      content may be a gallery application, a video reproducing application, an image editing
      application, a search application, or any other type of application as desired.
[781]   Upon receiving the user input of selecting the ID information 7501-1, the controller
       130 may display, on the display unit 121, a notification screen requesting the user to
      input the second biometric information to remove the security on the content.
      According to a signal for inputting biometric infonnation of the user, the controller 130
      may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the
      device 100. Alternatively, the controller 130 may receive the second biometric in
      formation from an external device through the communication unit 150. Upon
      obtaining the second biometric information, the controller 130 may remove the
      security on the content based on the second biometric information.
[782]   Alternatively, when the user input of selecting the ID information 7501-1 is received,
      the controller 130 may display an application execution screen 7601 on the display unit
       121, as shown in FIG. 76.
[783]   While the application execution screen 7601 is displayed, the controller 130 may
      receive a user input of selecting, by a finger f76, a group 7601-1 including content,
      such as a folder or a layer.
[784]   Upon receiving the user input of selecting the group 7601-1, the controller 130 may
      display, on the display unit 121, a notification screen requesting the user to input the
      second biometric information to remove the security on the content. According to a
      signal for inputting the second biometric information of the user, the controller 130
      may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the
      device 100. Alternatively, the controller 130 may receive the second biometric in
      formation from an external device through the communication unit 150. Upon
      obtaining the second biometric information, the controller 130 may remove the
      security on the content based on the second biometric information.
[785]   Alternatively, when the user input of selecting the group 7601-1 is received, the
      controller 130 may display a screen 7701 including ID information 7701-1 of the
      content on the display unit 121, as shown in FIG. 77. The ID information 7701-1 may
      include, for example, a file name of the content or a representative image of the
      content.

                                            74
[786]   While the screen 7701 including the ID information 7701-1 is displayed on the
      display unit 121, the controller 130 may receive a user input of selecting, by a finger
      f77, the ID information 7701-1.
[787]   Upon receiving the user input of selecting the ID information 7701-1, the controller
       130 may display, on the display unit 121, a notification screen requesting the user to
      input the second biometric information for removing the security on the content.
      According to a signal for inputting the second biometric information of the user, the
      controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module
      provided in the device 100. Alternatively, the controller 130 may receive the second
      biometric information from an external device through the communication unit 150.
      Upon obtaining the second biometric information, the controller 130 may remove the
      security on the content based on the second biometric information.
[788]   Alternatively, when the user input of selecting the ID information 7701-1 is received,
      the controller 130 may display content 7801 on the display unit 121 as shown in FIG.
      78.
[789]   FIG. 79 is a diagram for describing an example of the device 100 logging in to the
      server 200, according to an exemplary embodiment.
[790]   Referring to FIG. 79, the device 100 (for example, a smart phone) may log in to the
      server 200. Here, when the device 100 logs in to the server 200, the device 100 may be
      able to receive information in a certain region (for example, a physical or logical space
      providing content or certain service of a certain website) on which security is set of the
      server 200.
[791]   For example, a user may input login information to access the certain region of the
      server 200 through the device 100. The device 100 may transmit the login information
      to the server 200. When user authentication has succeeded by using the login in
      formation, the device 100 may log in to the server 200.
[792]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the user may use biometric information as
      the login information. A plurality of pieces of biometric information may be used as
      the login information. For example, the user may log in to the server 200 based on first
      biometric information or second biometric information. Alternatively, the user may log
      in to the server 200 based on both the first and second biometric information.
[793]   In detail, the controller 130 may obtain fingerprint information 70 from a watch type
      wearable device 701, as the first biometric information. When user authentication has
      succeeded by using the first biometric information, the controller 130 may obtain a
      first password corresponding to the first biometric information.
[794]   A password corresponding to biometric information may be a value obtained, by the
      controller 130, from among a plurality of values pre-stored in the memory 170. Alter
      natively, a password corresponding to biometric information may be a value randomly

                                            75
      generated by the controller 130. Alternatively, a password corresponding to biometric
      information may be a value generated, by the controller 130, by using base biometric
      infonnation stored in the memory 170, which corresponds to the biometric in
      formation. For example, the password corresponding to the biometric information may
      be a value generated by using at least a part of feature information of the base
      biometric information as a factor of a certain function (for example, a one-way hash
      function, such as secure hash algorithm-I (SHA-1), SHA-256, or SHA-512). A
      password corresponding to biometric information may be generated after user authen
      tication has succeeded or before user authentication is performed. For example, in the
      registration mode 201 for registering biometric information, when feature information
      of base biometric information is stored in the memory 170, a password corresponding
      to biometric information may be pre-generated and stored by using the feature in
      formation of the base biometric information.
[795]   A password corresponding to biometric information may be stored in the memory
       170, an external server, a wearable device, or a third device.
[796]   Then, the device 100 may transmit the first password to the server 200. When user
      authentication has succeeded by using the first password, the device 100 may receive
      login acceptance information from the server 200, and log in to the server 200.
[797]   Also, the controller 130 may obtain iris information 72 from a glasses type wearable
      device 702 as second biometric information. When user authentication has succeeded
      by using the second biometric information, the controller 130 may obtain a second
      password corresponding to the second biometric information. Since a method of
      obtaining, by the controller 130, a password corresponding to biometric information
      has been described above, details thereof are not provided again.
[798]   Then, the device 100 may transmit the second password to the server 200. When user
      authentication has succeeded by using the second password, the device 100 may
      receive login acceptance information from the server 200 and log in to the server 200.
[799]   A method of logging in to a server, according to an exemplary embodiment, will now
      be described in detail with reference to FIGS. 80 through 97.
[800]   FIG. 80 is a flowchart of a method of registering, by the device 100, biometric in
      formation in the server 200, according to an exemplary embodiment.
[801]   Referring to FIG. 80, in operation S8001. the device 100 may obtain first biometric
      information of a user (for example, fingerprint information).
[802]   For example, the controller 130 of the device 100 may obtain the first biometric in
      formation from a biometrics module included in the device 100. As another example,
      the device 100 may obtain the first biometric information from an external device.
[803]   In operation S8002, the device 100 may obtain a first password corresponding to the
      first biometric information, based on the first biometric information.

                                              76
[804]   For example, when user authentication has succeeded by using the first biometric in
      fornation, the controller 130 may obtain the first password corresponding to the first
      biometric information. Since a method of obtaining, by the controller 130, a password
      corresponding to biometric information has been described above, details thereof are
      not provided again.
[805]   In operation S8003, the device 100 may transmit the first password to the server 200.
      The device 100 may transmit ID information of the device 100 or the user together
      with the first password, or before or after transmitting the first password. The ID in
      formation of the device 100 may be a serial number or a media access control (MAC)
      address of the device 100. Also, the ID information of the user may be a login ID, an
      email address, or a user specific management number.
[806]   In operation S8004, the server 200 may store the first password after mapping the
      first password to the ID information of the device 100 or the user. Meanwhile, the
      server 200 may obtain ID information from a third server. For example, when the first
      password includes biometric information of the user, the server 100 may transmit the
      first password to a third certificate authority managing biometric information, and
      obtain the ID information of the user from the third certificate authority.
[807]   In operation S8005, the device 100 may obtain second biometric information of the
      user (for example, iris information).
[808]   In operation S8006, the device 100 may obtain a second password corresponding to
      the second biometric information, based on the second biometric information.
[809]   For example, when user authentication has succeeded by using the second biometric
      information, the controller 130 of the device 100 may obtain the second password cor
      responding to the second biometric information.
[810]   In operation S8007, the device 100 may transmit the second password to the server
      200. The device 100 may transmit the ID information of the device 100 or the user
      together with the second password, or before or after transmitting the second password.
[811]   In operation S8008, the server 200 may store the second password after mapping the
      second password to the ID information of the device 100 or the user. Meanwhile, the
      server 200 may obtain ID information from a third server.
[812]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the first password mapped to the ID in
      formation of the device 100 or the user may be pre-stored in the server 200. The server
      200 may store the first and second passwords after mapping the first and second
      passwords to the ID information of the device 100 or the user.
[813]   FIG. 81 is a flowchart of a method of registering, by the device 100, biometric in
      formation in the server 200, according to another exemplary embodiment.
[814]   Referring to FIG. 81, in operation S8101, the device 100 may obtain first biometric
      information (for example, fingerprint information) and second biometric information

                                              77
      (for example, iris information) of a user.
[815]   In operation S8102, the device 100 may obtain first and second passwords re
      spectively based on the first and second biometric information. Since methods of
      obtaining first and second passwords have been described above with reference to FIG.
      80, details thereof are not provided again.
[816]   In operation S8103, the device 100 may transmit the first and second passwords to
      the server 200. The device 100 may transmit ID information of the device 100 or the
      user together with the first and second passwords, or before or after transmitting the
      first and second passwords.
[817]   In operation S8104, the server 200 may store the first and second passwords after
      mapping the first and second passwords to the ID information of the device 100 or the
      user. Alternatively, the server 200 may obtain ID information from a third server and
      map and store the first and second passwords and the ID information.
[818]   FIGS. 82 through 85 are diagrams for describing an example of UI provided to
      register biometric information in the server 200, according to exemplary embodiments.
[819]   As shown in FIG. 82, when a user logs in to the server 200 to receive a certain
      service, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a screen 8201 re
      questing the user to first register as a member. The controller 130 may display, on the
      display unit 121, a notification screen 8202 asking the user whether to use biometric
      information for login. Then, the controller 130 may receive a user input of selecting an
      acceptance button 8202-1 on the notification screen 8202 for using biometric in
      formation. However, if the user selects a rejection button 8202-2 on the notification
      screen 8202, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a screen re
      questing the user to input text for setting a password.
[820]   In response to the user input of selecting the acceptance button 8202-1, the controller
       130 may obtain the fingerprint information 70, as first biometric information, from the
      watch type wearable device 701, as shown in FIG. 83. Alternatively, the controller 130
      may obtain the first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the
      device 100.
[821]   The controller 130 may transmit a first password obtained based on the first
      biometric information to the server 200. When the first password is stored in the server
      200 after being mapped to ID information, the controller 130 may display, on the
      display unit 121, a notification screen 8301 notifying the user that the first biometric
      information is registered in the server 200.
[822]   According to an exemplary embodiment, as shown in FIG. 84, the controller 130
      may display, on the controller 130, a notification screen 8401 asking the user whether
      to additionally register biometric information for login. The controller 130 may receive
      a user input of selecting an acceptance button 8401-1 on the notification screen 8401 to

                                            78
      additionally register biometric information. However, if the user selects a rejection
      button 8401-2 on the notification screen 8401, the controller 130 may end registration
      of biometric information of login and display, on the display unit 121, a next screen for
      membership registration.
[823]   In response to the user input of selecting the acceptance button 8401-1, the controller
       130 may obtain the iris information 72, as second biometric information, from the
      glasses type wearable device 702, as shown in FIG. 85. Alternatively, the controller
       130 may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module provided
      in the device 100.
[824]   Then, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a notification screen
      8501 notifying the user that the second biometric information is registered in the server
      200.
[825]   FIGS. 86A and 86B are flowcharts of a method of logging in, by the device 100, to
      the server 200, according to an exemplary embodiment.
[826]   Referring to FIG. 86A, in operation S8601, the server 200 may store first and second
      passwords corresponding to ID information of the device 100 or a user.
[827]   In this case, in operation S8602, the device 100 may display a login screen for
      accessing a certain service provided by the server 200.
[828]   In operation S8603, the device 100 may obtain first biometric information of the
      user. For example, the device 100 may provide a guide screen requesting the user to
      input the first biometric information, and obtain the first biometric information
      according to consent of the user. Alternatively, the device 100 may automatically
      obtain the first biometric information when the login screen is displayed.
[829]   In operation S8604, the device 100 may obtain the first password corresponding to
      the first biometric information, based on the first biometric information.
[830]   For example, when user authentication has succeeded by using the first biometric in
      formation, the device 100 may obtain the first password corresponding to the first
      biometric information. The user authentication may be performed by matching feature
      information of the first biometric information and feature information of base first
      biometric information pre-stored in the memory 170. When a matching score
      calculated as a matching result is equal to or higher than a certain threshold value, the
      controller 130 may determine that the user authentication has succeeded, The first
      password corresponding to the first biometric information may be obtained, by the
      controller 130, correspondingly to the first biometric information when the first
      biometric information is registered in the server 200. The controller 130 may obtain the
      first password corresponding to the first biometric information from the memory 170,
      an external server, a wearable device, or a third device.
[831]   In operation S8605, the device 100 may transmit the first password corresponding to

                                             79
      the first biometric information to the server 200. The device 100 may transmit the first
      password together with the ID information of the device 100 or the user, or before or
      after transmitting the first password.
[832]   In operation S8606, the server 200 may determine whether the received first
      password matches the stored first password. In detail, the server 200 may obtain the
      stored first password corresponding to the first biometric information, which is mapped
      to the received ID information, and determine whether the received first password and
      the stored first password match each other.
[833]   When the received first password and the stored first password match each other, the
      server 200 may transmit login acceptance information to the device 100 in operation
      S8607.
[834]   Upon receiving the login acceptance information, the device 100 may access the
      certain service provided by the server 200 in operation S8608. In other words, the
      device 100 and the server 200 may be connected to each other for transmission and
      reception of content related to the certain service.
[835]   Referring to FIG. 86B, the connection for transmission and reception of content
      related to the certain service between the device 100 and the server 200 may be
      removed in operation S8609. For example, the connection may be released in response
      to a user input of removing login, i.e., logging out, through the device 100.
[836]   In operation S8610, after the connection is removed, the device 100 may display a
      login screen for accessing the certain service provided by the server 200 in response to
      a user input for re-logging in to the server 200.
[837]   In operation S8611, the device 100 may obtain second biometric information that is
      of a different type than the first biometric information obtained in operation S8603. For
      example, the device 100 may provide guide information requesting the user to select
      one of the first biometric information and the second biometric information, and may
      obtain the second biometric information according to a user input of selecting the
      second biometric information. Alternatively, the device 100 may automatically obtain
      the second biometric information when the login screen is displayed.
[838]   In operation S8612, the device 100 may obtain a second password corresponding to
      the second biometric information based on the second biometric information. Since
      methods of obtaining first and second passwords have been described above with
      reference to FIG. 79, details thereof are not provided again.
[839]   In operation S8613, the device 100 may transmit the second password corresponding
      to the second biometric information to the server 200. The device 100 may transmit the
      second password together with the ID information of the device 100 or the user, or
      before or after transmitting the second password.
[840]   In operation S8614, the server 200 may determine whether the received second

                                            80
      password and the stored second password match each other. In detail, the server 200
      may obtain the stored second password corresponding to the second biometric in
      formation, which is mapped to the received ID information, and determine whether the
      received second password and the stored second password match each other.
[841]   When the received second password and the stored second password match each
      other, the server 200 may transmit login acceptance information to the device 100 in
      operation S8615.
[842]   Upon receiving the login acceptance information, the device 100 is able to access the
      certain service provided by the server 200, in operation S8616. In other words, the
      device 100 and the server 200 may be re-connected to each other for transmission and
      reception of content related to the certain service.
[843]   FIGS. 87 through 88B are diagrams for describing examples of a UI provided for the
      device 100 to log in to the server 200, according to exemplary embodiments.
[844]   As shown in FIG. 87 at S8710, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit
       121, a login screen 8701 for accessing a certain service provided by the server 200.
      The controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a notification screen 8702
      asking the user whether to log in to the server 200 by using biometric information. The
      controller 130 may receive a user input selecting, by a finger f87, an acceptance button
      8702-1 on the notification screen 8702 agreeing to use biometric information for login.
      However, if the user selects a rejection button 8702-2 on the notification screen 8702,
      the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a screen requesting the user to
      input a password for login.
[845]   In response to the user input of selecting the acceptance button 8701-1, the controller
       130 may display, on the display unit 121, a notification screen 8702 for selecting
      biometric information, as shown in FIG. 87 at S8720. When there are first biometric
      information (for example, fingerprint information) and second biometric information
      (for example, iris information) as biometric information for login, the controller 130
      may receive a user input of selecting, by a finger f88, the first biometric information.
[846]   In response to the user input of selecting the first biometric information, the
      controller 130 may obtain the fingerprint information 70 as the first biometric in
      formation from the watch type wearable device 701, as shown in FIG. 88A. Alter
      natively, the controller 130 may obtain the first biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[847]   The controller 130 may obtain a first password corresponding to the first biometric
      information based on the first biometric information. For example, when user authen
      tication has succeeded by using the first biometric information, the controller 130 may
      obtain the first password corresponding to the first biometric information.
[848]   The controller 130 may transmit the first password to the server 200. Upon receiving

                                            81
      login acceptance information, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a
      notification screen 8801 notifying the user that the server 200 is logged in by using
      biometric information.
[849]   Meanwhile, at S8720 in FIG. 87 , the controller 130 may receive a user input of
      selecting the second biometric information (for example, iris information).
[850]   In this case, as shown in FIG. 88B, the controller 130 may obtain the iris information
      72 as the second biometric information from the glasses type wearable device 702. Al
      ternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information from a
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[851]   The controller 130 may obtain a second password corresponding to the second
      biometric information based on the second biometric information. For example, when
      user authentication has succeeded by using the second biometric information, the
      controller 130 may obtain the second password corresponding to the second biometric
      information. The controller 130 may transmit the second password to the server 200.
      Upon receiving login acceptance information, the controller 130 may display, on the
      display unit 121, a notification screen 8802 notifying the user that the server 200 is
      logged in by using biometric information.
[852]   FIG. 89 is a flowchart of a method of registering, by the device 100, biometric in
      formation in the server 200, according to another exemplary embodiment.
[853]   Referring to FIG. 89, in operation S8901, the server 200 may store ID information of
      a user of the device 100 required for login, and a password mapped to the ID in
      formation.
[854]   In operation S8902, the device 100 may receive a common password from the user to
      log in to the server 200, through a biometric information management application. The
      common password may be a password commonly used to log in to the server 200 re
      gardless of a type of biometric information.
[855]   The device 100 may receive the ID information of the user or the device 100,
      together with the common password. Alternatively, the ID information of the user or
      the device may be received before or after the common password is received.
[856]   In operation S8903, the device 100 may store the common password. When the
      controller 130 received the ID information of the user or the device 100, the controller
       130 may store the common password after mapping the common password to the ID
      information of the user or the device 100.
[857]   In operation S8904, the device 100 may obtain first biometric information (for
      example, fingerprint information) and second biometric information (for example, iris
      information) of the user.
[858]   In operation S8905, when user authentication has succeeded by using the first
      biometric information, the device 100 may register that the first biometric information

                                              82
      uses the common password. Also, in operation S8906, when user authentication has
      succeeded by using the second biometric information, the device 100 may register that
      the second biometric information uses the common password. User authentication may
      be performed by matching feature information of obtained biometric information and
      feature information of pre-stored base biometric information. The controller 130 may
      determine that user authentication has succeeded when a matching score calculated as
      a matching result is equal to or higher than a certain threshold value.
[859]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 may register information
      about biometric information using a common password. For example, the controller
       130 registering that the first and second biometric information use the common
      password may mean that biometric information using the common password is the first
      and second biometric information.
[860]   FIGS. 90 through 94 are diagrams for describing examples of a UI provided to
      register biometric information in the server 200, according to other exemplary em
      bodiments.
[861]   As shown in FIG. 90 at S9010, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit
      121, a notification screen 9001 asking a user whether to use biometric information to
      login to a certain service (for example, a certain website) provided by the server 200.
      Then, the controller 130 may receive a user input of selecting, by a finger f90, an ac
      ceptance button 9001-1 on the notification screen 9001 to use biometric information.
[862]   In response to the user input of selecting the acceptance button 9001-1, the controller
      130 may display, on the display unit 121, a screen 9002 requesting the user to input a
      common password for logging in to the server 200, as shown at S9020. When the
      common password is input from the user, the controller 130 may store the common
      password.
[863]   Then, as shown in FIG. 91, the controller 103 may display, on the display unit 121, a
      notification screen 9101 asking the user whether to register biometric information for
      login. Then, the controller 130 may receive a user input of selecting, by a finger f91, an
      acceptance button 9101-1 on the notification screen 9101 to register biometric in
      formation.
[864]   In response to the user input of selecting the acceptance button 9101-1, the controller
       130 may obtain the fingerprint information 70 as first biometric information from the
      watch type wearable device 701, as shown in FIG. 92. Alternatively, the controller 130
      may receive the first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the
      device 100.
[865]   When user authentication has succeeded by using the first biometric information, the
      controller 130 may register that the first biometric information uses the common
      password. The controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a notification

                                             83
      screen 9201 indicating that the first biometric information is registered to use the
      common password.
[866]   Then, as shown in FIG. 93, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a
      notification screen 9301 asking the user whether to additionally register biometric in
      formation for login. Then, the controller 130 may receive a user input of selecting, by a
      finger f93, an acceptance button 9301-1 on the notification screen 9301 to additionally
      register biometric information. Meanwhile, if the user selects a rejection button 9301-2
      on the notification screen 9301, the controller 130 may end the additional registration
      of biometric information for login.
[867]   In response to the user input selecting the acceptance button 9301-1, the controller
      130 may obtain the iris information 72 as second biometric information from the
      glasses type wearable device 702, as shown in FIG. 94. Alternatively, the controller
       130 may obtain the first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in
      the device 100.
[868]   When user authentication has succeeded by using the second biometric information,
      the controller 130 may register that the second biometric information uses the common
      password. The controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a notification
      screen 9401 indicating that the second biometric information is registered to use the
      common password.
[869]   FIGS. 95A and 95B are flowcharts of a method of accessing, by the device 100, the
      server 200, according to an exemplary embodiment.
[870]   Referring to FIG. 95A, in operation S9501, the device 100 may store a common
      password required to log in to the server 200, and information about biometric in
      formation using the common password.
[871]   Also, in operation S9502, the server 200 may store ID information of a user or the
      device 100, and a password mapped to the ID information.
[872]   In operation S9503, the device 100 may display a login screen for accessing a certain
      service provided by the server 200.
[873]   In operation S9504, the device 100 may obtain first biometric information of the
      user. For example, the device 100 may provide a notification screen asking the user
      whether to use biometric information to access the server 200 through a biometric in
      formation management application, and obtain the first biometric information
      according to consent of the user. Alternatively, the device 100 may automatically
      obtain the first biometric information from the user when the login screen is displayed.
[874]   In operation S9505, the device 100 may determine whether the first biometric in
      formation is registered to use the common password based on the first biometric in
      formation. For example, when user authentication has succeeded by using the first
      biometric information, the device 100 may determine whether the first biometric in-

                                             84
      formation is registered as biometric information for using the common password. The
      user authentication may be performed by matching feature information of the obtained
      first biometric information and feature information of pre-stored base first biometric
      information.
[875]   When it is determined that the first biometric information is registered to use the
      common password, the device 100 may transmit the ID information of the user or the
      device 100 and the common password to the server 200 in operation S9506. Alter
      natively, the ID information of the user or the device 100 may be transmitted before or
      after the common password is transmitted.
[876]   In operation S9507, the server 200 may determine whether the received ID in
      formation of the user or the device 100 and the received common password match the
      stored ID information of the user or the device 100 and the stored password. When the
      received ID information of the user or the device 100 and the received common
      password match the stored ID information of the user or the device 100 and the stored
      password, the server 200 may transmit login acceptance information to the device 100,
      in operation S9508.
[877]   Upon receiving the login acceptance information, the device 100 may access the
      certain service provided by the server 200, in operation S9509. In other words, the
      device 100 and the server 200 may be connected to each other for transmission and
      reception of content related to the certain service.
[878]   Referring to FIG. 95B, in operation S9510, a connection between the device 100 and
      the server 200 for transmission and reception of content related to the certain service
      may be removed. For example, the connection may be removed in response to a user
      input of removing logging in, i.e., logging out, through the device 100.
[879]   In operation S9511, after the connection is removed, the device 100 may display, on
      the display unit 121, a login screen for accessing the certain service provided by the
      server 200, in response to a user input to re-log in to the server 200.
[880]   In operation S9512, the device 100 may obtain second biometric information of the
      user, which is of a different type than the first biometric information obtained in
      operation S9504. For example, the device 100 may provide guide information re
      questing the user to select one of the first biometric information and the second
      biometric information, and obtain the second biometric information according to a user
      input of selecting the second biometric information. Alternatively, the device 100 may
      automatically obtain the second biometric information from the user when the login
      screen is displayed.
[881]   In operation S9513, the device 100 may determine whether the second biometric in
      formation is registered to use the common password, based on the second biometric in
      formation. For example, when user authentication has succeeded by using the second

                                             85
      biometric information, the device 100 may determine whether the second biometric in
      formation is registered as biometric information for using the common password. The
      user authentication may be performed by matching feature information of the obtained
      second biometric information and feature information of pre-stored base second
      biometric information.
[882]   When it is determined that the second biometric information is registered to use the
      common password, the device 100 may transmit the ID information of the user or the
      device 100 and the common password to the server 200 in operation S9514.
[883]   In operation S9515, the server 200 may determine whether the received ID in
      formation of the user or the device 100 and the received common password match the
      stored ID information of the user or the device 100 and the stored password. When the
      received ID information of the user or the device 100 and the received common
      password match the stored ID information of the user or the device 100 and the stored
      password, the server 200 may transmit login acceptance information to the device 100,
      in operation S9516.
[884]    Upon receiving the login acceptance information, the device 100 may access the
      certain service provided by the server 200, in operation S9517. In other words, the
      device 100 and the server 200 may be re-connected to each other for transmission and
      reception of content related to the certain service.
[885]   FIGS. 96 through 97B are diagrams for describing examples of a UI provided for the
      device 100 to log in to the server 200, according to other exemplary embodiments.
[886]   As shown in FIG. 96 at S9610, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit
       121, a login screen 9601 for accessing a certain service provided by the server 200.
[887]   According to an exemplary embodiment, when a biometric information management
      application is managing a common password for logging in to the server 200. The
      controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a biometric information login
      button 9602 for login using biometric information. The controller 130 may receive a
      user input of selecting the biometric information login button 9602.
[888]   As shown at S9620, in response to the user input, the controller 130 may display, on
      the display unit 121, a notification screen 9603 for selecting biometric information.
      When there are first biometric information (for example, fingerprint information) and
      second biometric information (for example, iris information) as biometric information
      for login, the controller 130 may receive a user input of selecting the first biometric in
      formation.
[889]   In response to the user input of selecting the first biometric information, the
      controller 130 may obtain the fingerprint information 71 as the first biometric in
      formation from the watch type wearable device 701, as shown in FIG. 97A. Alter
      natively, the controller 130 may obtain the first biometric information from a

                                            86
      biometrics module provided in the device 100.
[890]   The controller 130 may obtain a common password based on the first biometric in
      formation. For example, when user authentication has succeeded by using the first
      biometric information, the controller 130 may obtain a first password corresponding to
      the first biometric information through the biometric information management ap
      plication.
[891]   Then, the controller 130 may transmit the first password to the server 200. Upon
      receiving login acceptance information, the controller 130 may display, on the display
      unit 121, a notification screen 9701 indicating that the server 200 is logged in by using
      biometric information.
[892]   Alternatively, the controller 130 may receive a user input of selecting the second
      biometric information in FIG. 96 at S9620. According to an exemplary embodiment, as
      shown in FIG. 97B, the controller 130 may obtain the iris information 72 as the second
      biometric information from the glasses type wearable device 702. Alternatively, the
      controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information from a biometrics module
      provided in the device 100.
[893]   The controller 130 may obtain the common password based on the second biometric
      information. For example, when user authentication has succeeded by using the second
      biometric information, the controller 130 may obtain the common password through
      the biometric information management application. Also, the controller 130 may
      transmit the common password to the server 200. Upon receiving login acceptance in
      formation, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, a notification screen
      9702 indicating that the server 200 is logged in by using biometric information.
[894]   The one or more exemplary embodiments described above are only examples and
      thus are not limited thereto. Also, the orders of the operations of the methods described
      above are not limited, and at least one operation may be omitted, an operation may be
      added to the method, or the order may be changed, according to one or more
      exemplary embodiments.
[895]   Data transmission (for example, transmission of content, transmission of biometric
      information, transmission of an encryption key, and transmission of a decryption key)
      between a transmitter and a receiver, according to an exemplary embodiment, may be
      performed by using a safe channel. The safe channel means a channel having high
      security on communication content between the transmitter and the receiver. For
      example, the safe channel may be a protocol, such as https.
[896]   Also, the one or more exemplary embodiments described above are not limitedly
      applied to content, but may also be applied to a file name of content, reference in
      formation of content, a group of pieces of content, reference information of the group,
      or an application.

                                             87
[897]   For example, the controller 130 of the device 100 may set security on a group
      including pieces of content, by using first biometric information. The security is set on
      the group by setting security on the group itself or by setting security on each piece of
      content included in the group. According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller
      130 may remove the security on the group by using second biometric information.
[898]   As another example, the controller 130 may set security on an application by using
      first biometric information. The security is set on the application by setting security on
      ID information of the application, reference information of the application, or an
      execution file of the application. According to an exemplary embodiment, the
      controller 130 may remove the security on the application by using second biometric
      information.
[899]   Also, the one or more exemplary embodiments may be applied to a lock screen re
      stricting access to a home screen.
[900]   FIG. 98 illustrates an example of a UI provided to set security on a lock screen,
      according to an exemplary embodiment.
[901]   As shown in FIG. 98, the controller 130 of the device 100 may display, on the
      display unit 121, a lock screen setting screen 9801 for restricting access to a home
      screen. The lock screen setting screen 9801 may include an item 9801-1 for setting
      security based on first biometric information, i.e., fingerprint information, and an item
      9802-2 for setting security based on second biometric information, i.e., iris in
      formation.
[902]   According to an exemplary embodiment, when a user input of selecting the item
      9801-1 is received, the controller 130 may obtain the first biometric information. User
      authentication may be performed by matching feature information of the obtained first
      biometric information and feature information of pre-stored base first biometric in
      formation. When the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130 may set a
      lock screen for restricting access to a home screen by using the first biometric in
      formation.
[903]   According to another exemplary embodiment, when a user input of selecting the item
      9801-2 is received, the controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information.
      User authentication may be performed by matching feature information of the obtained
      second biometric information and feature information of pre-stored base second
      biometric information. When the user authentication has succeeded, the controller 130
      may set a lock screen for restricting access to a home screen by using the second
      biometric information.
[904]   FIGS. 99 through 100B are diagrams for describing examples of a Ul provided to
      remove security on a lock screen, according to exemplary embodiments.
[905]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 of the device 100 may

                                             88
      receive a user input of activating the display unit 121.
[906]   Upon receiving the user input, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit
       121, a notification screen 9902 requesting the user to select biometric information to
      remove a lock screen 9901 as shown in FIG. 99. When there are first biometric in
      formation (for example, fingerprint information) and second biometric information (for
      example, iris information) for removing the lock screen 9901, the controller 130 may
      receive a user input of selecting, by a finger f99, the first biometric information.
[907]   In response to the user input selecting the first biometric information, the controller
      130 may obtain fingerprint information 90 as the first biometric information from a
      first external device 911, as shown in FIG. 100A. Alternatively, the controller 130 may
      obtain the first biometric information from a biometrics module provided in the device
      100.
[908]   The controller 130 may display a home screen 10001 based on the first biometric in
      formation. For example, the controller 130 may display, on the display unit 121, the
      home screen 10001 after removing a lock screen when user authentication has
      succeeded by using the first biometric information.
[909]   Alternatively, in FIG. 99, the controller 130 may receive a user input selecting the
      second biometric information.
[910]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 130 may receive iris in
      formation 92 as the second biometric information from a second external device 912 as
      shown in FIG. 1OOB. Alternatively, the controller 130 may obtain the second biometric
      information from a biometrics module provided in the device 100. The controller 130
      may display, on the display unit 121, the home screen 10001 based on the second
      biometric information. For example, when user authentication has succeeded by using
      the second biometric information, the controller 130 may remove a lock screen and
      display the home screen 10001 on the display unit 121.
[911]   FIGS. 101 and 102 are block diagrams of the device 100 according to exemplary em
      bodiments.
[912]   As shown in FIG. 101, the device 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      include the controller 130, the communicator 150, and the memory 170. However, not
      all illustrated components are essential. The device 100 may include more or less
      components than those shown in FIG. 101.
[913]   For example, as shown in FIG. 102, the device 100 according to an exemplary em
      bodiment may further include a user input 110, an outputter 120, the AV input 160,
      and the memory 170, as well as the display 121, the sensors 140, the communicator
       150, and the controller 130.
[914]   The components of the device 100 will now be described in detail.
[915]   The user input 110 is used by a user to input data for controlling the device 100.

                                             89
      Examples of the user input 110 include a keypad, a dome switch, a touch pad (a touch
      capacitance type, a pressure resistance film type, an infrared light detecting type, a
      surface ultrasound conducting type, an integral tension measuring type, or a piezo
      effect type), a jog wheel, and a jog switch, but are not limited thereto.
[916]   The user input 110 may be controlled by the controller 130 to receive a user input.
      For example, the user input 110 may receive a user input for removing a lock on the
      device 100.
[917]   The outputter 120 is controlled by the controller 130 to output an audio signal, a
      video signal, or a vibration signal, and may include the display 121, a sound outputter
       122, and a vibration motor 123.
[918]   The display 111 may be controlled by the controller 130 to display information
      processed by the device 100. The display unit 121 may display and change a UI for
      removing the lock on the device 100. Also, the display 121 may display a home screen
      while the lock on the device 100 is removed.
[919]   Meanwhile, when the display 121 is configured as a touch screen by forming a layer
      structure with a touch pad, the display 121 may also be used as an input device as well
      as an output device. The display 121 may include at least one of a liquid crystal display
      (LCD), a thin-film transistor-liquid crystal display (TFT-LCD), an organic light
      emitting diode (OLED), a flexible display, a 3D display, and an electrophoretic
      display. According to an exemplary embodiment of the device 100, the device 100
      may include at least two displays 121. Here, the at least two displays 121 may be
      disposed to face each other by using a hinge.
[920]   The sound outputter 122 outputs audio data received from the communication unit
       150 or stored in the memory 170. Also, the sound outputter 122 outputs a sound signal
      related to a function performed by the device 100, such as a call signal reception
      sound, a message reception sound, or an alarm sound. The sound output unit 122 may
      include a speaker or a buzzer.
[921]   The vibration motor 123 may output a vibration signal. For example, the vibration
      motor 123 may output a vibration signal corresponding to an output of audio data or
      video data, for example, a call signal reception sound or a message reception sound.
      Also, the vibration motor 123 may output a vibration signal when a touch screen is
      touched.
[922]   The controller 130 generally controls an overall operation of the device 100. For
      example, the controller 130 may generally control the user input 110, the outputter
       120, the sensors 140, the communicator 150, and the A/V input 160 by executing
      programs stored in the memory 170.
[923]   In detail, the controller 130 according to an exemplary embodiment may obtain
      second biometric information of a user, which is of a different type than first biometric

                                            90
      information of the user, according to a user input for executing content, and remove
      security set on content by using the first biometric information, based on the second
      biometric information.
[924]   Also, when the security on the content is to be removed based on the second
      biometric information, the controller 130 may remove the security by using at least one
      of a password and a decryption key when user authentication has succeeded by using
      the second biometric information.
[925]   The password may be a common password that is commonly used for the first and
      the second biometric information or a second password corresponding to the second
      biometric information, and the controller 130 may remove restriction on access to
      content by using the password when security on the content is to be removed.
[926]   The decryption key may be a common decryption key that is commonly used for the
      first biometric information and the second biometric information or a second de
      cryption key corresponding to the second biometric information, and the controller 130
      may decrypt encrypted content by using the decryption key when security on the
      content is to be removed.
[927]   When the decryption key is the second decryption key corresponding to the second
      biometric information, the controller 130 may decrypt a first encryption key corre
      sponding to the first biometric information by using the second decryption key, and
      then decrypt encrypted content by using a first decryption key obtained by decrypting
      the first encryption key.
[928]   Also, the controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information when the
      second biometric information is selected through a screen for selecting one of the first
      biometric information and the second biometric information.
[929]   Also, the controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information from at least
      one external device through the communication unit 150.
[930]   The device 100 according to an exemplary embodiment may further include at least
      one biometrics module for recognizing biometric information of the user, and the
      controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information from the at least one
      biometrics module.
[931]   Also, the controller 130 according to an exemplary embodiment may log in to the
      server 200 based on the first biometric information of the user.
[932]   Also, the controller 130 may obtain the second biometric information of the user,
      which is different type from the first biometric information, after the login to the server
      200 is removed.
[933]   Also, the controller 130 may transmit a password related to the second biometric in
      fornation to the server 200 through the communication unit 150.
[934]   Also, when user authentication has succeeded by using the password, the device 100

                                             91
      may re-log in to the server 200.
[935]   The sensors 140 may detect a state of the device 100 or a state around the device 100,
      and transmit the detected state to the controller 130. The sensors 140 may include at
      least one of a magnetic sensor 141, an acceleration sensor 142, a temperature/humidity
      sensor 143, an infrared sensor 144, a gyroscope sensor 145, a position sensor 146 such
      as a global positioning system (GPS), an atmospheric sensor 147, a proximity sensor
      148, and an red, green, blue (RGB) sensor 149 such as an illuminance sensor, but a
      component included in the sensing unit 140 is not limited thereto. Because functions of
      each sensor may be intuitively inferred by one of ordinary skill in the art based on its
      name, details thereof are not described herein.
[936]   Also, the sensors 140 may include a sensor for detecting a touch input of an input
      tool and a sensor for detecting a touch input of a user. In this case, the sensor for
      detecting the touch input of the user may be included in the touch screen or the touch
      pad. Also, the sensor for detecting the touch input of the input tool may be disposed
      below the touch screen or the touch pad, or in the touch screen or the touch pad.
[937]   The communicator 150 may include at least one component enabling the device 100
      to communicate with an external device or a server. For example, the communicator
      150 may include a short-range wireless communicator 151, a mobile communicator
      152, and a broadcast receiver 153.
[938]   The short-range wireless communicator 151 may include a Bluetooth communicator,
      a BLE communicator, an NFC communicator, a wireless local area network (WLAN)
      (Wi-Fi) communicator, a Zigbee communicator, an infrared data association (IrDA)
      communicator, a Wi-Fi direct (WFD) communicator, an UWB communicator, and an
      Ant+ communicator, but components included in the short-range wireless com
      municator 141 are not limited thereto.
[939]   The mobile communicator 152 transmits and receives a wireless signal to and from at
      least one of a base station, an external terminal, and a server, on a mobile commu
      nication network. Here, a wireless signal may include data having various formats
      according to transmission and reception of a voice call signal, a video telephone call
      signal, or a text/multimedia message.
[940]   The broadcast receiver 153 receives a broadcast signal and/or broadcast related in
      formation from an external source, through a broadcast channel. The broadcast channel
      may include a satellite channel or a terrestrial broadcasting channel. In some
      exemplary embodiments, the device 100 may not include the broadcast receiver 153.
[941]   The A/V input 160 is used to receive an audio signal or a video signal, and may
      include a camera 161 and a microphone 162. The camera 161 may obtain an image
      frame of a still image or a moving image via an image sensor in a video telephone
      mode or a photographing mode. An image captured via the image sensor may be

                                            92
      processed by the controller 130 or a separate image processor (not shown).
[942]   An image frame processed by the camera 161 may be stored in the memory 170 or
      transmitted to an external device through the communicator 150. According to an
      exemplary embodiment of the device 100, the device 100 may include at least two
      cameras 161.
[943]   The microphone 162 receives an external sound signal and processes the external
      sound signal to electric voice data. For example, the microphone 162 may receive a
      sound signal from an external device or a narrator. The microphone 162 may use any
      one of various noise removing algorithms to remove noise generated while receiving
      the external sound signal.
[944]   The memory 170 may store a program for processes and control of the controller
       130, and may store input/output data.
[945]   The memory 170 may include at least storage medium from among a flash memory.
      a hard disk, a multimedia card micro type memory, a card type memory (for example,
      a secure digital (SD) card or an extreme digital (XD) card), a random access memory
      (RAM), a static random access memory (SRAM), a read-only memory (ROM), an
      electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), a programmable
      read-only memory (PROM), a magnetic memory, a magnetic disk, and an optical disk.
      Also, the device 100 may operate a web storage server or a cloud server that performs
      a storage function of the memory 170 in the Internet.
[946]   Programs stored in the memory 170 may be classified into a plurality of modules
      based on functions, and may be classified into a UI module 171, a touch screen module
       172, and a notification module 173.
[947]   According to an exemplary embodiment, the memory 170 may store content on
      which security is set based on first biometric information of a user. Also, the memory
       170 may store a first encryption key that is encrypted by using a second encryption key
      generated based on second biometric information.
[948]   Also, the memory 170 may store templates of fingerprint information, voice in
      formation, face information, iris information palm line information, vein information,
      retina information, movement pattern information, and ECG information, and the
      stored templates may be used as feature information of base biometric information.
[949]   Also, the memory 170 may store feature information extracted by the feature in
      formation extractor 133 according to control of the controller 130, and the stored
      feature information may be used as feature information of base biometric information
      for user authentication.
[950]   The UI module 171 may provide a specialized UI or GUI linked to the device 100
      according to applications. The touch screen module 172 may detect a touch gesture of
      a user on a touch screen, and transmit information about the touch gesture to the

                                            93
      controller. The touch screen module 172 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      recognize and analyze a touch code. The touch screen module 172 may be configured
      as separate hardware including a controller.
[951]   Various sensors may be disposed inside or around the touch screen to detect a touch
      or a proximity touch on the touch screen. An example of a sensor for detecting a touch
      on the touch screen includes a tactile sensor. The tactile sensor detects a contact that
      can be felt by a person on a certain object. The tactile sensor may detect various types
      of information, such as a roughness of a contact surface, a rigidness of a contact object,
      and a temperature of a touch point.
[952]   Another example of a sensor for detecting a touch on the touch screen includes a
      proximity sensor. The proximity sensor detects an existence of an object approaching
      or near a predetermined detection surface by using electromagnetic field force or
      infrared ray, without having to detect a mechanical contact. Examples of the proximity
      sensor include a transmission photoelectric sensor, a direct reflective type photoelectric
      sensor, a mirror reflective type photoelectric sensor, a high frequency oscillation
      proximity sensor, a capacitance type proximity sensor, a magnetic type proximity
      sensor, and an infrared proximity sensor. Examples of a touch gesture of a user include
      tap, touch and hold, double-tap, drag, panning, flick, drag-and-drop, and swipe.
[953]   The notification module 173 may generate a signal for notifying an event occurrence
      in the device 100. Examples of an event that occurs in the device 100 include call
      signal reception, a message reception, key signal input, and schedule notification. The
      notification module 173 may output a notification signal in a video signal format
      through the display 121, in an audio signal format through the sound outputter 122, or
      in a vibration signal format through the vibration motor 123.
[954]   FIG. 103 is a block diagram of the server 200 according to exemplary embodiment.
[955]   As shown in FIG. 103, the server 200 according to an exemplary embodiment may
      include a controller 901, a communicator 903, and a database (DB) 905. The DB 905
      may include a content DB 907 and a key DB 909. However, not all illustrated
      components are essential. The server 200 may include more or less components than
      those shown in FIG. 103.
[956]   The controller 901 generally controls overall operations of the server 200.
[957]   In detail, the controller 901 may store an encrypted encryption key in the key DB
      909. The controller 901 may store encrypted content in the content DB 907.
[958]   The controller 901 may generate an encryption key based on biometric information
      of a user. Also, the controller 901 may generate a decryption key based on biometric
      information of a user. Also, the controller 901 may generate a decryption key by
      combining a plurality of decryption keys. Also, the controller 901 may decrypt
      encrypted content by using a decryption key.

                                            94
[9591   An exemplary embodiment may also be realized in a form of a computer-readable
      recording medium, such as a program module executed by a computer. A computer
      readable recording medium may be an arbitrary available medium accessible by a
      computer, and examples thereof include all volatile and non-volatile media and
      separable and non-separable media. Further, examples of the computer-readable
      recording medium may include a computer storage medium and a communication
      medium. Examples of the computer storage medium include all volatile and non
      volatile media and separable and non-separable media, which have been implemented
      by an arbitrary method or technology, for storing information such as computer
      readable commands, data structures, program modules, and other data. The commu
      nication medium typically includes a computer-readable command, a data structure, a
      program module, other data of a modulated data signal, or another transmission
      mechanism, and an example thereof includes an arbitrary information transmission
      medium.
[960]   Also, herein, "unit" may be a hardware component such as a processor or a circuit
      and/or a software component executed by a hardware component such as a processor.
[961]   It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes in form
      and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
      present invention. Hence, it will be understood that the exemplary embodiments
      described above are not limiting the scope of the invention. For example, each
      component described in a single type may be executed in a distributed manner, and
      components described distributed may also be executed in an integrated form.

                                                 95
                                            Claims
            1.    A method of providing a user interface at an electronic device, the method
            comprising:
        displaying a registration screen associated with notification screens for setting
biometric login options, each of the biometric login options corresponding to a respective
biometric information category of a plurality of biometric information categories;
        obtaining a first piece of biometric information of a user corresponding to a first
biometric information category of the plurality of biometric information categories using at
least one first notification screen of the notification screens;
        storing the first piece of biometric information in a memory of the electronic device,
wherein the first piece of biometric information is associated with an identification of the
user based on a password of the user for unlocking the electronic device;
        obtaining a second piece of biometric information of the user corresponding to a
second biometric information category of the plurality of biometric information categories
using at least one second notification screen of the notification screens;
        storing the second piece of biometric information in the memory of the electronic
device, wherein the second piece of biometric information is associated with the
identification of the user based on the password for unlocking the electronic device;
        pairing with an external electronic device having a first biometric module to establish
a short-range wireless connection between the electronic device and the external electronic
device;
        displaying a lock screen for selection from among first and second biometric login
options respectively indicating the first and second biometric information categories
corresponding to the first and second pieces of biometric information of the user stored in
the memory of the electronic device;
        based on the first biometric login option being selected from among the first and
second biometric login options displayed with the lock screen, obtaining, based on
communicating with the external electronic device having the first biometric module over
the short-range wireless connection, first input biometric information of the user
corresponding to the first biometric information category;

                                                 96
         displaying an authentication failure notification screen based on unsuccessful
authentication of the user using the obtained first input biometric information of the user and
the first piece of biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device;
         based on the second biometric login option being selected from among the first and
second biometric login options, operating a second biometric module of the electronic
device to obtain second input biometric information corresponding to the second biometric
information category;
         obtaining, using the second biometric module of the electronic device, the second
input biometric information of the user corresponding to the second biometric information
category; and
         displaying an unlocked screen based on successful authentication of the user using
the obtained second input biometric information of the user and the second piece of
biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device.
         2.        The method of claim 1, wherein the displaying of the lock screen comprises
presenting a login option for unlocking the electronic device, without presenting in the lock
screen a user interface item for opening an application executable by the electronic device,
and
         wherein the displaying of the unlocked screen comprises presenting in the unlocked
screen the user interface item for opening the application executable by the electronic device.
         3.        The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of biometric
information categories comprises one from among fingerprints, voice patterns, facial
recognition patterns, iris patterns, vein distribution patterns, retina patterns, gait patterns, and
electrocardiograms (ECG).
         4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the displaying of the lock screen comprises:
         presenting a login option including an entry field for receiving the password of the
user based on which the first piece of biometric information and the second piece of
biometric information are associated with the identification of the user, and
         presenting a user interface item indicating that alternative login options for unlocking
the electronic device are available for the user while presenting the entry field.

                                                 97
        5.        The method of claim 4, wherein the displaying of the lock screen further
comprises:
        based on the user interface item being selected, presenting the biometric login
options as available login options for unlocking the electronic device.
        6.        An electronic device for providing a user interface, the electronic device
comprising:
        a memory storing instructions; and
        a processor configured to execute the instructions to at least:
         control to display a registration screen associated with notification screens for
setting biometric login options, each of the biometric login options corresponding to a
respective biometric information category of a plurality of biometric information categories;
         control to obtain a first piece of biometric information of a user corresponding to a
first biometric information category of the plurality of biometric information categories
using at least one first notification screen of the notification screens;
         control to store the first piece of biometric information in the memory of the
electronic device, wherein the first piece of biometric information is associated with an
identification of the user based on a password of the user for unlocking the electronic device;
         control to obtain a second piece of biometric information of the user corresponding
to a second biometric information category of the plurality of biometric information
categories using at least one second notification screen of the notification screens;
         control to store the second piece of biometric information in the memory of the
electronic device, wherein the second piece of biometric information is associated with the
identification of the user based on the password for unlocking the electronic device;
         control to pair with an external electronic device having a first biometric module to
establish a short-range wireless connection between the electronic device and the external
electronic device;
         control to display a lock screen for selection from among first and second biometric
login options respectively indicating the first and second biometric information categories
corresponding to the first and second pieces of biometric information of the user stored in the
memory of the electronic device;
         based on the first biometric login option being selected from among the first and
second biometric login options displayed with the lock screen, control to obtain, based on

                                                 98
communicating with the external electronic device having the first biometric module over the
short-range wireless connection, first input biometric information of the user corresponding to
the first biometric information category;
          control to display an unlocked screen based on successful authentication of the user
using the obtained first input biometric information of the user and the first piece of biometric
information stored in the memory of the electronic device;
          control to display an authentication failure notification screen based on unsuccessful
authentication of the user using the obtained first input biometric information of the user and
the first piece of biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device;
          based on the second biometric login option being selected from among the first and
second biometric login options after displaying the authentication failure notification screen,
control to operate a second biometric module of the electronic device to obtain second input
biometric information corresponding to the second biometric information category;
         control to obtain, using the second biometric module of the electronic device, the
second input biometric information of the user corresponding to the second biometric
information category; and
         control to display the unlocked screen based on successful authentication of the user
using the obtained second input biometric information of the user and the second piece of
biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device.
         7.        The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the controlling to display the lock
screen comprises controlling to present a login option for unlocking the electronic device,
without presenting in the lock screen a user interface item for opening an application
executable by the electronic device, and
         wherein the controlling to display the unlocked screen comprises controlling to
present in the unlocked screen the user interface item for opening the application executable
by the electronic device.
         8.        The electronic device of claim 6, wherein each of the plurality of biometric
information categories comprises one from among fingerprints, voice patterns, facial
recognition patterns, iris patterns, vein distribution patterns, retina patterns, gait patterns, and
electrocardiograms (ECG).

                                                 99
         9.        A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions executable
by a processor of an electronic device to cause the processor to perform operations
comprising:
         controlling to display a registration screen associated with notification screens for
setting biometric login options, each of the biometric login options corresponding to a
respective biometric information category of a plurality of biometric information categories;
         controlling to obtain a first piece of biometric information of a user corresponding to
a first biometric information category of the plurality of biometric information categories
using at least one first notification screen of the notification screens;
         controlling to store the first piece of biometric information in a memory of the
electronic device, wherein the first piece of biometric information is associated with an
identification of the user based on a password of the user for unlocking the electronic device;
         controlling to obtain a second piece of biometric             information of the user
corresponding to a second biometric information category of the plurality of biometric
information categories using at least one second notification screen of the notification
screens;
         controlling to store the second piece of biometric information in the memory of the
electronic device, wherein the second piece of biometric information is associated with the
identification of the user based on the password for unlocking the electronic device;
         controlling to pair with an external electronic device having a first biometric module
to establish a short-range wireless connection between the electronic device and the external
electronic device;
         controlling to display a lock screen for selection from among first and second
biometric login options respectively indicating the first and second biometric information
categories corresponding to the first and second pieces of biometric information of the user
stored in the memory of the electronic device;
         based on the first biometric login option being selected from among the first and
second biometric login options displayed with the lock screen;
         controlling to obtain, based on communicating with the external electronic device
having the first biometric module over the short-range wireless connection, first input
biometric information of the user corresponding to the first biometric information category;

                                              100
        controlling to display an unlocked screen based on successful authentication of the
user using the obtained first input biometric information of the user and the first piece of
biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device;
        controlling to display an authentication failure notification screen based on
unsuccessful authentication of the user using the obtained first input biometric information
of the user and      the first piece of biometric information stored in the memory of the
electronic device;
        based on the second biometric login option being selected from among the first and
second biometric login options, controlling to operate a second biometric module of the
electronic device to obtain second input biometric information corresponding to the second
biometric information category;
        controlling to obtain, using the second biometric module of the electronic device, the
second input biometric information of the user corresponding to the second biometric
information category; and
        controlling to display the unlocked screen based on successful authentication of the
user using the obtained second input biometric information of the user and the second piece
of biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device.
        10.        The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the
controlling to display the lock screen comprises controlling to present a login option for
unlocking the electronic device, without presenting in the lock screen a user interface item
for opening an application executable by the electronic device, and
        wherein the controlling to display the unlocked screen comprises controlling to
present in the unlocked screen the user interface item for opening the application executable
by the electronic device.
        11.        The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein each of
the plurality of biometric information categories comprises one from among fingerprints,
voice patterns, facial recognition patterns, iris patterns, vein distribution patterns, retina
patterns, gait patterns, and electrocardiograms (ECG).
        12.       An electronic device for providing a user interface, the electronic device
comprising:

                                                 101
         a memory storing instructions; and
         a processor configured to execute the instructions to at least:
          control to display a registration screen associated with notification screens for
setting biometric login options, each of the biometric login options corresponding to a
respective biometric information category of a plurality of biometric information categories;
          control to obtain a first piece of biometric information of a user corresponding to a
first biometric information category of the plurality of biometric information categories
using at least one first notification screen of the notification screens;
          control to store the first piece of biometric information in the memory of the
electronic device, wherein the first piece of biometric information is associated with an
identification of the user based on a password of the user for unlocking the electronic device;
          control to obtain a second piece of biometric information of the user corresponding
to a second biometric information category of the plurality of biometric information
categories using at least one second notification screen of the notification screens;
          control to store the second piece of biometric information in the memory of the
electronic device, wherein the second piece of biometric information is associated with the
identification of the user based on the password for unlocking the electronic device;
          control to pair with an external electronic device having a first biometric module to
establish a short-range wireless connection between the electronic device and the external
electronic device;
          control to display a lock screen for selection from among first and second biometric
login options respectively indicating the first and second biometric information categories
corresponding to the first and second pieces of biometric information of the user stored in
the memory of the electronic device;
          based on the first biometric login option being selected from among the first and
second biometric login options displayed with the lock screen, control to obtain, based on
communicating with the external electronic device having the first biometric module over
the short-range wireless        connection, first input biometric      information  of the user
corresponding to the first biometric information category;
          control to display an authentication failure notification screen based on unsuccessful
authentication of the user using the obtained first input biometric information of the user and
the first piece of biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device;

                                               102
         based on the second biometric login option being selected from among the first and
second biometric login options, control to operate a second biometric module of the
electronic device to obtain second input biometric information corresponding to the second
biometric information category;
        control to obtain, using the second biometric module of the electronic device, the
second input biometric information of the user corresponding to the second biometric
information category; and
        control to display an unlocked screen based on successful authentication of the user
using the obtained second input biometric information of the user and the second piece of
biometric information stored in the memory of the electronic device.
        13.       The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the controlling to display the lock
screen comprises:
        controlling to present a login option including an entry field for receiving the
password of the     user based on which the first piece of biometric information and the
second piece of biometric information are associated with the identification of the user, and
        controlling to present a user interface item indicating that alternative login options
are available for the user while presenting the entry field.
        14.       The electronic device of claim 13, wherein the controlling to display the
lock screen further comprises:
        based on an input to the user interface item, controlling to present the biometric login
options as available login options for unlocking the electronic device.
        15.       The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the
controlling to display the lock screen comprises:
        controlling to present a login option including an entry field for receiving the
password of the user based on which the first piece of biometric information and the second
piece of biometric information are associated with the identification of the user, and
        controlling to present a user interface item indicating that alternative login options
for unlocking the electronic device are available for the user while presenting the entry field.

                                               103
         16.      The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the
controlling to display the lock screen further comprises:
         based on the user interface item being selected, controlling to present the biometric
login options as available login options for unlocking the electronic device.
         17.      The method of claim 1, wherein the second biometric login option being
selected from the first and second biometric login options comprises receiving, by the
electronic device, user selection of the second biometric login option from the first and
second biometric login options displayed with the lock screen.
         18.      The method of claim 1, wherein the displaying the lock screen comprises
displaying biometric login options for pieces of biometric information stored in the memory
associated with the identification of the user based on the password for unlocking the
electronic device.
         19.      The method of claim 1, wherein the displaying of the registration screen
comprises presenting the one or more notification screens for setting the biometric login
options while the registration screen is displayed.
         20.      The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the second biometric login option
being selected from the first and second biometric login options comprises controlling to
receive, by the electronic device, user selection of the second biometric login option from
the first and second biometric login options displayed with the lock screen.
         21.      The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the controlling to display the lock
screen comprises controlling to display biometric login options for pieces of biometric
information stored in the memory associated with the identification of the user based on the
password for unlocking the electronic device.
         22.      The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the controlling to display the
registration screen comprises controlling to present the one or more notification screens for
setting the biometric login options while the registration screen is displayed.

                                               104
        23.       The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the
second biometric login option being selected from the first and second biometric login
options comprises controlling to receive, by the electronic device, user selection of the
second biometric login option from the first and second biometric login options displayed
with the lock screen.
        24.       The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the
controlling to display the lock screen comprises controlling to display biometric login
options for pieces of biometric information stored in the memory associated with the
identification of the user based on the password for unlocking the electronic device.
        25.       The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the
controlling to display the registration screen comprises controlling to present the one or
more notification screens for setting the biometric login options while the registration screen
is displayed.
        26.       The electronic device of claim 12, wherein the second biometric login
option being selected from the first and second biometric login options comprises
controlling to receive, by the electronic device, user selection of the second biometric login
option from the first and second biometric login options presented in the lock screen.
        27.       The electronic device of claim 12, wherein the controlling to display the
lock screen comprises controlling to display biometric login options for pieces of biometric
information stored in the memory associated with the identification of the user based on the
password for unlocking the electronic device.
        28.       The electronic device of claim 12, wherein the controlling to display the
registration screen comprises controlling to present the one or more notification screens for
setting the biometric login options while the registration screen is displayed.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
