                                      Abstract
A system arranged for measuring the displacement of a surface in a material
handling system such as a crusher, transfer chute or other material handling
structure relative to a base reference in a material handling system such as a
crusher, transfer chute or other material handling structure, thereof comprising
scanning means to generate point cloud data of the surface relative to a reference
point to define a three-dimensional image of the surface; storage means to store
base reference data in respect of the base reference; and processing means to
process the point cloud data and the base reference data to determine the relative
displacement of the surface with respect to the base reference; wherein the
processing means comprises (i) a referencing means to orientate the point cloud
data relative to key reference data of the base surface and transforming the point
cloud data and the base reference data into a common co-ordinate system, and (ii)
displacement processing means to calculate the displacement between the surface
and the base reference using both sets of data in the co-ordinate system.

               1/31
                  -11
-13
         -55
    -65-         -67
               - 69
             Figure 1

                                             -1
   "A System and Method for Measuring and Mapping a Surface Relative to a
   Reference"
   Field of the Invention
 5 The present invention relates to scanning systems and methods for examining
   surfaces of bodies subject to wear or change over time. The invention has
   particular, although not exclusive, utility for measuring surfaces and comparing
   them against historical data to determine whether the surface needs repair or
   replacement.
10 Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
   "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
   imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of
   any other integer or group of integers.
   Furthermore, throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise,
15 the word "include" or variations such as "includes" or "including", will be
   understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not
   the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
   Background Art
   The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
20 understanding    of the    present   invention only. The     discussion is not an
   acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part
   of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
   In many applications, it is necessary to assess the wear or change of a surface
   relative to a base or reference.       This information can be utilised for various
25 applications, including assessing whether a surface is safe for use, or when a
   surface requires repair or maintenance as a result of either wear or accumulation
   of deposits over time.

                                             -2
   In certain applications, a liner is often employed as a cost effective means of
   protecting a base surface from wear or damage. Consequently, the liner takes up
   wear in preference to the base surface, and is replaced from time to time in lieu of
   replacing the base surface, which may be more difficult or more expensive to
 5 replace.
   Assessing the degree of change of a surface, be it with or without a liner, is
   difficult and/or time consuming in certain environments, such as where the surface
   is disposed internally within a cavity or compartment of a body, and especially
   where that body is rotatable. Conventional measurement tools are often
10 inadequate to perform the task, either with respect to the precision of
   measurement, safety of performing the task, or economic factors associated with
   downtime of commercial use of the body whilst the measurement task is
   undertaken.
   In some of these environments liners are used. It is important that liner wear is
15 accurately determined to first ensure the liner is replaced before it wears to a point
   where it no longer protects the underlying body, and second to maintain the
   efficiency of the process.
   A practical example of the foregoing considerations is in the comminution of
   minerals within the mining industry. In mineral processing, minerals are extracted
20 from their interlocked state in solid rock by crushing the raw ore into progressively
   smaller pieces and finally grinding it into a powder. This comminution process is
   multi-stage, being carried out in a series of crushing then grinding mills, and
   generally includes transfer chutes to transfer the bulk material.
   On the completion of the crushing process, the crushed ore is separated into
25 pieces of a few cm in diameter (actual size depends on the ore type) and may
   then be fed into rotating cylindrical mills. The rotation of a mill about its axis
   causes the ore pieces to tumble under gravity, thus grinding the ore into
   decreasingly smaller fractions. Some types of grinding mills are fitted with grinding
   bodies such as iron or steel balls (ball mills), steel rods (rod mills) or flint pebbles
30 (pebble mills) which assist in the grinding process. Two specific types of mill are
   the autogenous mill (AG mill), which operates without any grinding body, and the

                                                -3
   semi-autogenous mill (SAG mill), in which a small percentage (usually around
   10%) of grinding bodies (often steel balls) are added.
   A typical mill grinding circuit will comprise a primary grinding system, consisting of
   a SAG or AG mill and into which the crushed raw ore is fed, and a secondary
 5 grinding system, consisting of ball, rod or pebble mills and into which the output
   from the primary grinding system is fed.
   All types of cylindrical mills consist of a cylindrical shell with a feed arrangement at
   one end and a discharge arrangement on the other. Feed and discharge designs
   vary. For example, feed chutes and spout feeders are common, whilst screw-type,
10 vibrating drum and scoop-type feeders are also in use. Discharge arrangements
   are usually classified as overflow, peripheral, grate and open-ended.
   The interior of a cylindrical mill is surfaced with a lining designed for the specific
   conditions of mill operation. Liners can be made of steel, iron, rubber, rubber-steel
   composites or ceramics. Liners in this application serve two functions:
15      1. to protect the shell of the mill from damage due to abrasion erosion;
        2. to aid grinding performance.
   Naturally, mill liners wear through erosion. Normally, chemical solutions that are
   quite toxic and corrosive to humans and instrumentation alike are introduced into
   the mill to help with the comminution process. Whilst good liner design can
20 enhance milling efficiency, worn liners have a detrimental effect on milling
   performance and energy efficiency. Therefore liners must be replaced on a
   regular basis.
   Replacing mill liners requires significant mill downtime which is undesirable from
   an economic point of view. The downtime is attributable to the time taken to
25 assess the thickness of the liner, and the considerable time needed to replace the
   liner. Therefore, accurately assessing the thickness of the liner within the mill is of
   critical importance to the operator.        Furthermore, the minimisation of downtime
   attributable to liner thickness inspection procedures is also desirable.

                                             -4
   Taking mills as an example, one method that has been used to determine liner
   thickness is visual      inspection.    Once the     mill has been      stopped   and
   decontaminated, a specialist enters the mill and inspects the liner for cracks,
   fractures and excessive wear.         The problem with this approach is the time
 5 consumed in decontaminating the mill, and further, the inaccuracy of relying on
   the human eye to determine the thickness of an object of which the depth
   dimension is invisible.
   Another method of determining mill liner thickness is via a physical inspection. As
   is the case with visual inspection, the mill must be stopped and decontaminated
10 before the mill is inspected. A specialist enters the mill and measures the length
   of nails that have previously been hammered into the liner. As the liner wears
   faster than the protruding nail, inspection of the length of protrusion provides an
   indication of wear. The problem with this method is that it is time consuming in
   terms of mill downtime while decontamination procedures and measurement
15 processes are executed, and further, the inaccuracy of estimating the thickness
   from measurements of the nail, which itself is subject to wear, against the liner
   wear. Further, the comparative sparsity of measurement coverage of the liner is
   also a problem.
   Another method of determining mill liner thickness is via acoustic emission
20 monitoring. This method involves monitoring the surface vibrations on the outside
   of a mill via accelerometer transducers.        Estimates are obtained relating to
   grinding process performance and machine wear analysis. The problem with this
   approach is that it does not directly measure the mill liner thickness. Rather, it
   monitors changes in the acoustic output of a mill which could be interpreted as
25 being due to mill liner wear, but could equally be attributable to wear of other parts
   of the milling machinery.
   Another method of determining mill liner thickness is via ultrasonic thickness
   gauging. It is known by some in the industry to be a well-established technique
   typically performed using piezoelectric transducers. Ultrasonic gauges measure
30 the time interval that corresponds to the passage of a very high frequency sound
   pulse through a test material.       Sound waves generated by a transducer are
   coupled into the test material and reflected back from the opposite side. The

                                                -5
   gauge measures the time interval between a reference pulse and the returning
   echo.    The velocity of sound in the test material is an essential part of the
   computation.     The readings are obtained using a hand-held device which is
   operated manually within a stationary mill. The operator takes the readings by
 5 placing the sensor at selected points on the liner surface. The operator notes the
   thickness reading and the location on a graphical representation of the mill.
   There are several problems with ultrasonic thickness gauging.                   Firstly, as
   mentioned previously, the mill must be decontaminated in order for the operator to
   enter the mill. Secondly, temperature alters sound velocity, and hence calibration
10 is always needed to guarantee accurate readings.             Thirdly, it is slow, as each
   point must be recorded manually. Fourthly, it is difficult to accurately assess liner
   wear due to the need to ensure that the sensor measurement tool is orthogonal to
   the mill shell, and the practical difficulty in achieving this.
   Taking crushers as another example, before the ore passes to the mills it first
15 passes through one or more crushers. Different types of crushers are used to
   break large solid materials into smaller pieces for further processing. For example,
   there exists jaw crushers, gyratory crushers, cone crushers and Cylindrical roll
   crushers such as High Pressure Grinding Rolls (HPGR). Crushers also have high
   wear surfaces which are protected by liners.
20 Gyratory crushers comprise a mantle which rotate in an eccentric relationship to
   the sides, known as concaves. These surfaces provide the crushing action and
   are protected by liners.
   Over time, the mantle liner and the concave liners of the crusher wear and need
   replacing in order to maximise crusher efficiency and avoid crusher failure or
25 damages to the crusher.
   Mantle liners typically wear out quicker than the concave liners, particularly at the
   lower section. This can be corrected by adjusting the mantle position upwards
   during operation so as to maintain a steady or constant Closed Side Setting
   (CSS). If the CSS is not maintained, then undesired variable product sizes and/or
30 production issues may result. Once the mantle can no longer be adjusted upward,

                                             -6
   the mantle is typically replaced by a larger size mantle liner so as to match the
   more worn liners on the concaves in order to maintain the CSS. Larger mantles
   continue to be installed in this fashion until the concaves need replacement.
   Cone crushers function in a similar way, except that mantle and bowl liners are
 5 not necessarily relined at different times.
   Usually several size mantles are used during the life cycle of one set of concaves.
   When the concave liners are new, an undersized mantle is used, when they are
   worn, a normal size mantle replaces the undersized version, and during the later
   stages of the concaves' life, an oversized mantle is installed. Depending on the
10 site specific circumstances, less than or more than the three above mentioned
   sizes, or more than three sizes of mantles may be used in combination with one
   set of concaves, possibly by reusing mantle matched with the previous set of
   concaves as the next smaller size.
   There are existing methods to check the condition of the mantle and concave
15 liners in order to determine whether a crusher reline is necessary.
   In most existing methods, there is a need for a person to access the crusher to
   take manual measurements during an inspection. However, a difficulty arises
   when the spider and mantle assembly is in place (typically the case for an
   inspection) as the person cannot access the crusher cavity. Therefore, it is not
20 possible for the person to reach beyond the upper periphery section of the crusher
   in order to take manual measurements towards the bottom of the crusher, which
   is the most critical section to be analysed. In light of safety concerns, it is
   generally an unacceptable safety risk to lower a person in a harness into a
   crusher cavity when the mantle is still in place. Similarly, access to cone and jaw
25 crushers is equally prohibitive because of their design and the surrounding
   infrastructure.
   In the case of a typical fixed plant crusher, further difficulties arise when a person
   is required to access the crusher because of the safety requirement to completely
   clear the dump pocket (ROM bin) from any residual ore in order to get to the
30 crusher itself. This is a major undertaking which is further complicated by the need

                                             -7
   for confined space isolation. This results in additional downtime, and hence loss in
   production and revenue.
   Examples of existing crusher condition monitoring methods requiring physical
   access by a person to the crusher include:
 5
       *   Ball Drop Test
       *   Visual or camera inspection
       *   Tape measuring
       *   Ultrasonic Thickness Gauging (UTG)
10
   These existing methods present difficulties as they are only possible to conduct
   when:
        1) The ROM bin is completely cleared of ore;
15     2) The spider is removed;
       3) The mantle/shaft assembly is removed;
       4) Confined space isolation for the dump pocket is in place;
       5) Confined space isolation for the crusher cavity is in place; and
       6) Safety access systems such as steps, ladders, harnesses, scaffolding,
20         and/or custom cavity platforms are available and deployed.
   Therefore, with the above existing methods, it is not possible to examine the
   crusher liners for wear at any time other than during a mantle reline, which is
   when the mantle/shaft is removed. As a result, it is not possible to examine the
   crusher liners for wear during an inspection shutdown, when any of items 1) to 6)
25 listed above are not attained. This means that the only time when the mantle
   liners can be examined with the above existing methods is when the mantle is
   being relined anyway.
   In addition, the above existing methods cannot provide reliable and accurate
   results, such as timing of reline. For example, the crusher could be relined more
30 frequently than necessary, resulting in loss of production and extra costs.
   Another area which experiences significant wear is in the transportation of
   material. Considering the mining industry in particular, ore at various stages of

                                               -8
   the processing process are transported through numerous means from the mine
   to its final destination. To assist in the transportation of the material large systems
   of conveyor belts are set up. Often the ore is required to travel from one conveyor
   belt to another. To ensure delivery of the ore between belts a transfer chute
 5 guides or redirects the ore to the next belt. This will often mean that the ore will
   impact on at least one of the walls of the transfer chute.         In a similar vain to
   Crushers and Mills, the impact of the ore on these surfaces causes significant
   wear. To protect the surfaces from wear the transfer chutes are lined with liners
   to protect the chute and to ensure no holes form in the transfer chute.
10 The design of a transfer chute is tailored to the particular application. As a result
   transfer chutes and the associated liners are many and varied in regards to their
   design. It is therefore necessary to monitor the liners on each transfer chute.
   Currently the techniques used to monitor liner wear to evaluate liner change out
   are similar to those employed with mills and crushers. These techniques also
15 face the same problems when monitoring transfer chutes. In particular, access to
   the internal surfaces of a transfer chute is generally unsafe, requires significant
   downtime of the conveyor system and has limitations with respect to confined
   space and working at height considerations.
   Generally transfer chute are enclosed and have manholes at various stages to
20 allow visual inspection. As the transfer chutes may be multi-storey there may be
   several manholes along the chute. These manholes do not allow for adequate
   surface measurement using known means.                As a result it is necessary to
   construct scaffolding within the chute to allow for access and adequate
   measurement of the liners. This obviously requires significant time, and means
25 that during the process that part of the conveyor system is inoperable.
   Similar issues also apply to other material handling structures and numerous
   other industries and products. For instance transfer bins and hoppers, vessels.
   These all have the same inherent problem where it is very difficult to safely
   measure the wear of the various surfaces.

                                              -9
   The following problems result from the inability to adequately monitor wear of
   surfaces, such as the wear of liners in mills, crushers and transfer chutes and
   bins:
      e   Lack of awareness of liner wear rates and hence lack of control over
 5        change out schedules;
      e   Lack of control over stock ordering of liners;
      *   Lack of quantifiable control over the wear of different liner designs and
          hence inconclusive liner design comparisons and limitations in design
          optimization;
10    e   Lack of condition monitoring information on liner failures or wear hot spots
          in time to avoid failure or production issues;
      e   Current condition monitoring methods are too cumbersome;
      e   failure of liner plates can lead to excessive and unplanned downtimes to
          attend to repairs.
15

                                             -10
   Disclosure of the Invention
   It is an object of the present invention to ameliorate, mitigate or overcome, at least
   one of the aforementioned problems associated with prior art wear liner
   measurement or to at least provide the public with a useful choice in an alternative
 5 system for wear liner measurement.
   It should be appreciated with the above object that, the present invention is in no
   way limited solely to a particular application. Certainly the process is suited to any
   surface in which it is required to know the displacement of a surface relative to
   another, whether the displacement be due to wear or accumulation of a deposit
10 thereon     These applications include the measurement of the surface of liners in
   mills, vessels, crushers, and transfer chutes, bins and other material transport
   system components. Throughout the specification transfer chutes, bins and other
   material transport system components are collectively referred to as transfer
   chutes.
15 Throughout the specification the term displacement is generally taken to be the
   distance between a first surface and another object such as a second surface.
   These surfaces may be part of the same part (e.g. back surface and front surface
   of an object), part of the same structure (e.g. surface of a first object and a
   surface of a second object) or the same surface but measured aftyer time has
20 lapsed (eg a surface of a non-worn part and the same surface but measured after
   a time period has passed and the surface has experienced wear).
   Throughout the specification reference is generally made to the wear of a surface.
   However, it is to be understood that the scope of the invention also includes
   displacement of the surface caused by accumulation of deposits.           Such might
25 occur in the marine environment or mining industry where material accumulates
   on a surface and becomes difficult to remove, thus requiring repair or replacement
   of the surface.
   In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   system arranged for measuring the displacement of a surface relative to a base
30 reference, thereof comprising:-

                                             -11
           scanning means to generate point cloud data of the surface relative to a
           reference point to define a three-dimensional image of the surface;
           storage means to store base reference data in respect of the base
           reference; and
 5         processing means to process the point cloud data and the base reference
           data to determine the relative displacement of the surface with respect to
           the base reference;
   wherein the processing means comprises:
           (i) a referencing means to orientate the point cloud data relative to key
10         reference data of the base surface and transforming the point cloud data
           and the base reference data into a common co-ordinate system, and
           (ii) displacement processing means to calculate the displacement between
           the surface and the base reference using both sets of data in the co
           ordinate system.
15 The surface may be that of a component of a material handling system. The base
   reference may be a further surface of the material handling system.
   Alternatively, the base reference may be the surface before it undergoes
   displacement. In such an alternative the system would measure the displacement
   of the surface over time.
20 Preferably the point cloud data is transformed into the co-ordinate system of the
   base reference data.
   Preferably, the key reference data are a set of critical parameters that describe
   the geometry of the base reference and the relative boundaries of the surface.
   Preferably, the referencing means including a process to locate at least one of the
25 critical parameters of the key reference data within the point cloud data, and a
   transformation process to transform the point cloud data into the co-ordinate

                                               -12
   system coinciding with the co-ordinate system of the base reference data so that
   the location of the one critical parameter mathematically coincides with the
   location of this same critical parameter in the base reference data.
   Preferably, the process is an estimating process to estimate the location of at
 5 least one of the critical parameters of the key reference data from the point cloud
   data.
   When the system is used in respect of cylindrical vessels, such as mills, calciners,
   chlorinators, and autoclaves, the base reference may be a substantially cylindrical
   shell with opposing ends and the critical parameters may include one or more of
10 the following:
            e   the location of the central longitudinal axis of the shell;
            e   the radius of the shell; and
            *   the length of the cylindrical portion of the shell.
   Preferably, the at least one of the critical parameters of the key reference data is
15 the axis of the cylindrical shell.
   Preferably, the surface comprises segments and the critical parameters include
   the distance of the corner points of or separation lines between each segment to
   one end of the shell.
   Preferably, the critical parameters include the distance between a prescribed
20 reference surface and one of the opposing or other ends of the shell, the distance
   between the prescribed reference surface and the inner liner surface, or the
   prescribed reference surface and the longitudinal axis.
   Preferably, the      opposing ends are substantially conical, and the critical
   parameters include:
25         e   the cone angles of the opposing ends, relative to the axis of the
               cylindrical shell; and

                                             -13
           *  the distance between the apexes of the opposing ends.
   The system may also be applied to crushers.           A crusher generally includes a
   mantle and concave shell. When the system is used in respect of crushers, the
   base reference may be the outer wall of the crusher, whereby the critical
 5 parameters may include one ore more of the following:
       e  the location of the central longitudinal axis of the concave and the mantle;
       e  the length and position of the concave shell
       e  the eccentricity angle of the crusher mantle centre axis;
       e  the pivot point of the adjustable mantle height setting from the operating
10        system mantle origin
   When the system is used in respect of transfer chutes, the base reference may be
   at least one inner surface of the shell of the transfer chute, whereby the critical
   parameters include one or more of the following:
       e  the location and orientation of the wall(s) of the shell;
15     e  lined and unlined shell wall surface and surface normal vector;
       e  dimensions of the liner(s).
   Preferably, the processing means includes data editing means to filter spurious
   point data from the accumulated point cloud data before operation of the
   referencing means and the displacement processing means.
20 Preferably, the processing means further includes partitioning means to partition
   the point cloud data into discrete segments corresponding to different geometric
   sections of the surface before operation of the referencing means and the
   displacement processing means.

                                              -14
   Preferably in respect of cylindrical vessels, such as mills, calciners, chlorinators,
       and autoclaves, the displacement processing means:
       calculates the radius being the orthogonal distance from the axis of the
       cylindrical shell to a specific observation point; and
 5     determines the displacement of the surface relative to the base reference at
       the specific observation point along the cylindrical shell as the difference
       between the initial approximate radius of the base reference and the
       calculated radius.
10 In respect of crushers the displacement processing means may determine the
   displacement of the surface relative to the base reference at a point along the
   concave or mantle axis respectively as the difference between a distal surface
   point and the correspondent base reference point.
   In respect of transfer chutes the displacement processing means may determine
15 the displacement of the surface relative to the base reference of a transfer chute,
   bin or other material transport system component.
   Preferably, the referencing means includes a positioning process to position the
   point cloud data segments that were discretely partitioned and stored, relative to
   the base reference.
20 Preferably, the referencing means includes a positioning process to position the
   point cloud data segments that were discretely partitioned and stored for the
   opposing ends of the cylindrical shell, relative to the base reference.
   In one aspect of the invention the positioning process:
           (i) extracts data pertaining to the distance of the corner points from the
25              point cloud data to determine the location of the corner points (A), the
                length of the segments (B), the gap between an adjacent segment and
                the one opposing end of the shell (C), and the longitudinal extent of
                the shell (D); and

                                              -15
           (ii) translates the data along the longitudinal axis or spatially by:
                a.    determining the location of all corners within one vertical plane of
                      visible segments all around the shell;
                b.    determining the location of gaps between all corners opposing
 5                    those in a. within one vertical plane of visible segments all around
                      the shell;
                c.    determining the halfway plane between planes though points
                      extracted under a. and b.;
                d.    determining the position of the base reference at the one opposing
10                    end according to the formula: %A + B + C; and
   The process may also comprise the step of determining the position of the base
   reference at the other opposing end by adding D to the outcome of the formula at
   d.
   In another aspect of the invention, the positioning process:
15         (i) extracts data pertaining to the distance of the points from the point
                cloud data to determine the location of those points (A), the length of
                the segments (B), the gap between an adjacent segment and the one
                opposing or other end of the shell (C), and the longitudinal extent of
                the shell (D); and
20        (ii)     translates the data along the longitudinal axis or spatially by:
                   a. determining the location on non-wearing areas of liners;
                   b. determining and/or applying the thickness of said non-wearing
                   liners.

                                                -16
   Preferably, the critical parameters include the distance between a prescribed
   reference surface and one of the opposing ends of the shell, and the positioning
   process:
             (i) extracts data pertaining to the distance between the prescribed
 5                 reference surface and the one of the opposing ends of the shell (A'),
                   and the longitudinal extent of the shell (D') from the base reference
                   data; and
             (ii) translates the data along the longitudinal axis by:
                   a.   determining the position of the base reference at the one opposing
10                      end by adding A' to the location of the reference surface in the
                        point cloud data; and
                   b.   determining the position of the base reference at the other
                        opposing end by adding D to the outcome of a. above.
   Preferably, the referencing means invokes the estimating process to estimate the
15 critical parameters for the displacement processing means to subsequently
   determine the thickness of the distal surface relative to the base surface at the
   opposing ends of the cylindrical shell.
   Preferably:
20      (a) the positioning process:
            (i) extracts data pertaining to the distance of the corner points from the
            point cloud data to determine the location of the corner points (A), the
            length of the segments (B), the gap between an adjacent segment and the
            one opposing end of the shell (C), and the longitudinal extent of the shell
25          (D); and
            (ii) translates the data along the longitudinal axis by:

                                           -17
                 a. determining the location of all corners within one vertical plane of
                 visible segments all around the shell;
                 b. determining the location of gaps between all corners opposing
                 those in a. within one vertical plane of visible segments all around
 5               the shell;
                 c. determining the halfway plane between planes though points
                 extracted under a. and b.;
                 d. determining the position of the base reference at the one
                 opposing end according to the formula: % A + B + C; and
10               e. determining the position of the base reference at the other
                 opposing end by adding D to the outcome of the formula at d;
       and
       (b) the estimating process uses a gap point two parallel planes method
       adopting a simultaneous least squares fit methodology, whereby the loci of the
15     corner points are used to estimate the parameters of the parallel, best-fit
       planes in order to determine the distance along the longitudinal axis to the
       base reference at both of the opposing ends of the cylindrical shell.
   Preferably, the referencing means includes an orientating process to apply a
   functional model to orientate the point cloud data relative to the key reference
20 data of the opposing ends and to transform the point cloud of data into a co
   ordinate system coinciding with the base reference data for each opposing end,
   respectively.
   Preferably, in the case of the opposing ends being planar or conical, the
   displacement processing means provides for calculating the displacement
25 between the distal surface and the base reference using both sets of data in the
   co-ordinate system of the base reference data, the point cloud data being already
   transformed, commencing with the one end and then the other.

                                             -18
   Preferably, the estimating process uses a planar reference surface method
   adopting a simultaneous least squares fit methodology, whereby the reference
   surface is planar and data points thereon at the time of acquisition that are
   positioned by the positioning means and transformed by the transformation
 5 process are used to estimate the parameters of a best-fit plane in order to
   determine the distance along the longitudinal axis to the base reference at both of
   the opposing ends of the cylindrical shell.
   Preferably, the system further includes processing modules to provide for
   statistical analysis and quality control of the accumulated cloud point data, the
10 processing modules comprising one or more of the following metrics:
       (i) covariance matrix of estimated parameters;
       (ii) data snooping methods to test and identify least-squares residuals and
            subsequently remove outlier points;
       (iii)root mean square (RMS) and maximum residual;
15     (iv) estimated variance factor.
   Preferably, the processing means includes data editing means to filter spurious
   point data from the accumulated point cloud data before operation of the
   referencing means and the displacement processing means.
   Preferably, the processing means further includes partitioning means to partition
20 the point cloud      data   into discrete    segments     corresponding to    different
   geometrically described      sections of the     surface before     operation  of the
   referencing means and the displacement processing means.
   Preferably, the scanning means comprises a laser scanner having:
            (i)   a transmitter for transmitting laser radiation from the reference point
25                towards the surface;

                                            -19
          (ii)   a detector proximate to the reference point for detecting reflected
                 laser radiation from the surface; and
           (iii) distance processing means to measure the distance between the
                 laser scanner and the surface, and generate point cloud data in
 5               respect thereof.
   Preferably, the scanning means further includes scanner positioning means to
   precisely position and orientate the laser scanner in a prescribed manner
   incrementally about the reference point.
   Preferably, the system       includes data acquisition means        to acquire and
10 accumulate the point cloud data at consecutive incremental orientations of the
   laser scanner about the reference point to generate the point cloud data three
   dimensionally with respect to the surface.
   The scanning means may be placed at several reference points and acquire point
   cloud data at multiple reference points. This would be required where the surface
15 being scanned cannot be entirely scanned from the single reference point, as is
   the typical case in crushers and transfer chutes.
   Where the system is used to measure wear in a cylindrical vessels, such as mills,
   calciners, chlorinators, and autoclaves, the referencing means may include an
   estimating process to estimate the axis of the cylindrical shell from the point cloud
20 data, and a transformation process to transform the point cloud data, so that the
   estimated axis and the central longitudinal axis of the shell mathematically
   coincide.
   Where the system is used to measure wear in a crusher the referencing means
   includes an estimating process to estimate the axis of the crusher mantle and
25 concave from the point cloud data, and a transformation process to transform the
   point cloud data, so that the position and placement along the respective
   estimated and actual axes mathematically coincide.
   Where the system is used to measure wear in a transfer chute, the referencing
   means includes an estimating process to estimate the reference shell of the

                                            -20
   transfer chute from    non-wearing components of the point cloud data, and a
   transformation process to transform the point cloud data, so that the estimated
   and actual reference shell of the transfer chute mathematically coincide.
   Preferably the transformation process transforms each point from the co-ordinate
 5 system of the scanning means into the coordinate system of the base reference
   Preferably the referencing means invokes the transformation process to transform
   each point the of the point cloud data, or for the reference surface from the co
   ordinate system for the scanning means (x,y,z) into the co-ordinate system of the
   base reference (X,Y,Z) using the estimated transformation           parameters as
10 previously determined.
   Preferably the referencing means invokes the estimating process to estimate the
   critical parameters for the displacement processing means to subsequently
   determine the displacement of the distal surface relative to the base surface.
   Preferably the estimating process uses a gap point two parallel planes method
15 adopting a simultaneous least squares fit methodology, whereby the loci of the
   corner points are used to estimate the parameters of the parallel, best-fit planes in
   order to determine the distance to the base reference.
   Preferably the referencing means includes an orientating process to orientate said
   point cloud data relative to said key reference data and to transform the point
20 cloud data into a co-ordinate system coinciding with the base reference data.
   Preferably the estimating process uses a temporarily or permanently affixed
   planar surface or other simple shape as a referencing method, whereby data
   points thereon at the time of acquisition that are positioned by said positioning
   means and transformed by said transformation process are used to estimate the
25 parameters to determine the placement or orientation to the base reference.
   The system may be used to maintain an optimal Closed Side Setting (CSS)
   and/or Open Side Setting (OSS) in a crusher by assisiting in prediticing when the
   mantle requires to be raised or repalced. Preferably the system provides data to

                                               -21
   facilitate the timing of adjustments of the mantle in order to maintain CSS and/or
   OSS of the crusher.
   Preferably the scanning means is positioned so as to scan the location of the CSS
   and/or OSS of the crusher.
 5 Preferably the CSS and/or OSS can be determined by calculating the distance
   between the concave and mantle liners. The distance may be calculated based on
   the point cloud data representing the surface of the mantle and the point cloud
   data representing the surface of the concave liners.
   In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
10 system for measuring the displacement of a surface relative to a base reference,
   wherein differences in measurements of displacement over a time period
   represents change between the base reference and the surface, the system
   comprising:
        scanning means to generate point cloud data in respect of a distal surface
15      relative to a reference point to define a three-dimensional image of the
        surface;
        storage means to store base reference data of the base reference relative to
        the surface; and
        processing means to process said point cloud data and the base reference
20      data to determine the displacement;
        characterised by the processing means including:
        (i) a referencing means to orientate the point cloud data relative to key
                 reference data of the base reference and transform the point cloud data
                 and base reference data into a common co-ordinate system; and
25      (ii) displacement processing means to calculate the displacement using both
                 sets of data in the co-ordinate system.

                                            -22
   In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   method for measuring the displacement of a surface relative to a base reference
   thereof, comprising:
          generating point cloud data between a reference point and the surface
 5        which is disposed distally from the reference point to define a three
          dimensional image of the surface;
          determining the location and direction of key reference parameters of the
          object defined by the three dimensional image;
          obtaining base reference data in a prescribed co-ordinate system in
10        respect of the base reference; and
          processing the point cloud data and the base reference data, orientating
          the point cloud data relative to the key reference parameters of defined by
          the base reference data and transforming the point cloud data and the
          base reference data into a common co-ordinate system .
15 Preferably, the method includes determining the relative displacement of the
   surface defined by the point cloud data with respect to the base reference in the
   co-ordinate system.
   In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   system for mapping the displacement of a surface relative to a base reference,
20 thereof comprising:
   data processing means to obtain point cloud data defining a surface in a co
   ordinate system coinciding with a base reference and to generate displacement
   data in respect of the displacement between each point of the point cloud and a
   related point of the base reference;
25 comparison means to compare the displacement data against a prescribed
   threshold; and
   display means to graphically display the result of the comparison.

                                             -23
   Preferably, the display means includes a first format for graphically displaying the
   point cloud data or the displacement data in a 3D view.
   Preferably, the display means includes data manipulation means for unwrapping
   the point cloud data or the displacement data onto a 2D plane and a second
 5 format for graphically displaying same.
   Preferably, the second format includes a contour map having different colours or
   shades representing       different magnitudes    of displacement relative to the
   prescribed threshold.
   Preferably, the display means includes a third format for calculating a histogram in
10 respect of the displacement data.
   Preferably, the display means includes a fourth format for calculating a cumulative
   distribution histogram in respect of the displacement data.
   In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   method for mapping the displacement of a surface relative to a base reference,
15 thereof comprising:
           obtaining point cloud data defining a surface in a co-ordinate system
           coinciding with a base reference;
           generating displacement data in respect of the displacement between each
           point of the point cloud and a related point of the base reference;
20         comparing the displacement data against a prescribed threshold; and
           displaying the result of the comparison.
   Preferably, the method includes generating cross-sections of displacement data.
   In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   method for identifying the wear of a liner which is supported on a base surface,

                                           -24
   the method measures the displacement of a surface of the liner relative to a base
   reference, the method comprising:
          generating point cloud data between a reference point and the surface
          which is disposed distally from the reference point to define a three
 5        dimensional image of the surface of the liner;
          determining the location and direction of key reference parameters of the
          object defined by the three dimensional image from the point cloud data;
          obtaining base reference data in a prescribed co-ordinate system defining
          the base surface;
10        orientating the point cloud data relative to key reference parameters
          defined by the base reference data;
          transforming the point cloud data into a co-ordinate system coinciding with
          the base reference data;
          and determining the displacement of the surface of the liner with respect to
15        the base surface.
   The base reference may be a base surface which may be in the form of the
   surface of the unworn liner, the back of liner surface, or another surface of the
   structure.
   In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
20 method for measuring the displacement of a surface relative to a base reference,
   thereof comprising:
          scanning means to generate point cloud data in respect of a measure of
          the spatial orientation of a distal surface relative to a reference point to
          define a three-dimensional image of the surface;
25        storage means to store base reference data in respect of the spatial
          orientation of a base reference relative to the surface; and

                                            -25
          processing means to process the point cloud data and the base reference
          data to determine the relative displacement of the surface with respect to
          the base reference;
   wherein the processing means comprises:
 5        (i) a referencing means to orientate the point cloud data relative to key
          reference data of the base surface and transform the point cloud of data
          into a co-ordinate system coinciding with the base reference data, and
          (ii) displacement processing means to calculate the displacement between
          the surface and the base reference using both sets of data in the co
10        ordinate system.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   The accompanying drawings illustrate particular features of specific embodiments
   of the best mode for carrying out the present invention, wherein:
15        Figure 1 is a block diagram showing the basic functional components of the
          system described in the embodiment;
          Figure 2 is schematic diagram showing the setup of the laser scanner
          within a mill for generating point cloud data in respect of the inner surface
          of the mill;
20        Figure 3 is a fragmentary sectional diagram showing the relative profile of
          the inner surface of the cylindrical shell to the front surface of the liner and
          the displacement measurement obtained for determining the thickness of
          the liner;
          Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the principal components of the mill
25        showing the gaps that need to be determined for performing the first
          method of calculating the liner thickness at the feed and discharge ends;

                                     -26
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of the principal components of the mill
   showing the gaps that need to be determined for performing the second
   method of calculating the liner thickness at the feed and discharge ends;
   Figure 6 is a 3D representation of the point cloud data derived from a laser
 5 scan showing the liner surface of a cylindrical segment of the shell and the
   feed end of the mill;
   Figure 7 is a 3D image of the extracted linear segment showing
   displacement data coloured or shaded relative to the magnitude of the
   displacement to the back of the liner;
10 Figure 8 shows an image of the unwrapped belly displacement data
   translated into a 2D grid with a legend showing the correspondence of the
   colours and shades used to liner thickness;
   Figure 9 is a 2D contour map of unwrapped displacement data for the feed
   end, similarly translated into a 2D grid with a legend showing relative liner
15 thickness;
   Figure 10 is a histogram showing liner thickness from the cylinder data for
   all data scanned and the critical distance threshold;
   Figure 11 is a histogram showing liner thickness from the cylinder data
   proximate to the prescribed critical distance threshold;
20 Figure 12 is a cumulative histogram of liner wear corresponding to Figure
   10;
   Figure 13 is a cumulative histogram of liner wear corresponding to Figure
   11;
   Figure 14 is a graph of point cloud data in respect of a circular cross
25 section of the feed end around a prescribed radius unwrapped in a 2D
   plane;

                                      -27
   Figure 15 shows the relative position of the circular cross section shown in
   Figure 14 in a three dimensional view of the feed end;
   Figure 16 is a plot of point data for the feed end which is below a
   prescribed thickness for the liner;
 5 Figure 17 is a similar plot to Figure 16 but in relation to the belly;
   Figure 18 is a 3D image showing how a circumferential section of belly
   data is unwrapped and represented in a two dimensional grid;
   Figure 19A to 19 C shows the main program flowchart for the software in
   accordance with the preferred embodiment;
10 Figure 20 is a more detailed flowchart showing the process steps for the
   cylinder parameter estimation module, the transformation module and the
   displacement module in the belly processing option;
   Figure 21 is a more detailed flow chart showing the process steps for the
   parallel plane estimation module in the feed and discharge end processing
15 option;
   Figure 22 is a more detailed flowchart showing the process steps for the
   single plane estimation module in the feed and discharge end processing
   option; and
   Figures 23A and 23B show the flowchart for user operation of the software.
20 Figure 24 is a schematic sectional view of the gyratory crusher in a
   gyratory crusher plant;
   Figure 25 is a schematic plan view of the mantle and concave liners of the
   crusher shown in Figure 24, illustrating the OSS and CSS relationship
   therebetween;

                                           -28
         Figure 26 is a schematic sectional side view of the gyratory crusher plant at
         which there is in use a system according to invention for monitoring the
         condition of mantle and concave liners of the gyratory crusher;
         Figure 27 is a schematic sectional side view of the gyratory crusher plant at
 5       which there is in use a system according to a first embodiment for
         monitoring the condition of mantle and concave liners of the gyratory
         crusher;
         Figure 28 is a fragmentary schematic perspective view illustrating
         installation of the system;
10       Figure 29 is a top view of the crusher illustrating the scanner positions;
         Figure 30 is a top view of the crusher with the spider rim removed;
         Figure 31 is a perspective view of the concave and mantle illustrating the
         ring of data;
         Figure 32 is a perspective view of a section of a transfer chute;
15       Figure 33 provides a coded representation of the liners secured to the
         shaded wall of figure 32, and provides an indication as to when indivudal
         liners need replacement;
         Figure 34 provides a photgraph representsation of the shaded wall of figure
         32; and
20       Figure 35 provides a coded representation of the liners secured to the
         shaded wall of figure 32, and provides an indication as to the thickness of
         each liner.
   Best Mode(s) for Carrying Out the Invention
   The best mode for carrying out the invention will now be described with reference
25 to several specific embodiment thereof. The description of these embodiment

                                             -29
   makes reference to the accompanying drawings. Accordingly reference numerals
   referred to herein are used in the drawings to show the corresponding feature
   described in the embodiment. The invention is described in relation to three
   different applications. However, it is to be understood that the applications of this
 5 invention are not limited to these three examples.
   MILLMAPPER
   A first application of an embodiment of the invention is directed towards a system
   and method specifically adapted for mapping and measuring the thickness of a
   mill liner provided on the inner surface of a mill for grinding rock and ore therein.
10 The liner is provided to protect the inner surface of the shell of the mill and to
   assist with the comminution process performed by the mill.
   As previously discussed, replacing mill liners is a costly, but necessary, task
   associated with the operation of a mill.
   As shown in Figure 1, the system essentially comprises:
15     e   scanning means in the form of a terrestrial laser scanner 11;
        e  computer 13 including:
               -     data acquisition means 15,
               -     storage means in the form of a database 17, and
               -     processing means in the form of processing software 19; and
20     e   interface 21 to interface the computer 13 to the scanner 11.
   As shown in Figure 2 of the drawings, the laser scanner 11 is used in conjunction
   with a mill 23 having a cylindrical shell 25, mill liner segments 27 defining mill liner
   seam lines 29 therebetween, a feed end 31 and a discharge end 33. The feed end
   31 has an entry hole 35, and the discharge end 33 is provided with a discharge
25 hole 37.

                                               -30
   The laser scanner 11 is a scientific instrument of known design comprising a
   housing within which is disposed a distance measuring unit (DMU), a mechanism
   for rotating the distance measuring unit, and scanner electronics interfaced with
   the DMU and the rotating mechanism for operating the same.
 5 The DMU (not shown) generally comprises:
           (i)     a transmitter for transmitting laser radiation through a lens and
                   mirror system from a reference point towards a surface;
           (ii)    a detector disposed proximate to the reference point for detecting
                   reflected laser radiation from the surface through the lens and mirror
10                 system; and
           (iii)   distance processing means to measure the distance between the
                   laser scanner and the surface, and generate point cloud data in
                   respect thereof.
   The distance processing means is embodied in appropriate microprocessor
15 circuitry interfaced with the transmitter and detector and the scanner electronics to
   operate under software control for providing particular functionality for capturing
   data and outputting same to the data acquisition means 15 by means of the
   interface 21. This interface 21, can be any type of landline or wireless network
   connection accepting data output from the laser scanner 11 and inputting it to the
20 computer 13 for software controlled acquisition and accumulation by the data
   acquisition means 15.
   The terrestrial laser scanner 11 used in the preferred embodiment is a high
   precision three-dimensional (3D) laser scanner that collects a large amount of
   precise 3D point measurements to generate point cloud data by directly
25 measuring distance to a remote surface by time of flight laser range-finding. The
   laser scanner 11         is particularly characterised   by the following technical
   characteristics/specifications:
       *   Able to capture data in a near-spherical field of view (FOV) (i.e., 3600
           horizontal FOV, 3200 vertical FOV)

                                              -31
       *   Able to capture a dense dataset in the order of several millions of points
           throughout the full field of view within a few minutes
       *   Small enough to be fit through the access hole into the mill
       e   Able to function normally when oriented upside down or its vertical rotation
 5         axis is not vertical
       e   Measurement accuracy of 3 mm or better
       e   The distance measurement unit performance is such that the data are not
           biased by the reflectance properties of the liner surface
       *   Able to be operated remotely by cable or other means from a distance of
10         several metres
       *   Able to be pre-calibrated for systematic errors.
   Typically resolution can be adjusted to obtain measurements of point cloud data in
   a 3D Cartesian co-ordinate system in the order of 45 million points or more at a
   density in the order of 60 points per square cm, using either pulse or phase
15 difference methods of calculation.
   Time of flight is the return propagation time of emitted laser radiation from the
   transmitter and is measured to calculate the distance from a fixed reference point,
   which defines the origin of a Cartesian co-ordinate system, to the reflecting
   surface during sequential scans of the laser scanner 11. Consequently, horizontal
20 and vertical angles at which the laser is emitted are measured and it is from these
   and the propagation distance that the Cartesian co-ordinates are calculated to
   provide point cloud data for each point.
   The scanner 11 incorporates scanner positioning means to precisely position and
   automatically orientate the DMU of the laser scanner in an incremental manner
25 about the fixed reference point, performing each of its scans to obtain overall a
   near spherical coverage of the surrounding environment.              Moreover, with
   reference to Figure 2, the scanner 11 in the present embodiment performs a

                                            -32
   series of 3200 sweeps about a horizontal axis 39, to obtain point cloud data in
   respect of the surface of the inner liners of the mill shell. One sweep would
   commence at a position of 200 from the vertical axi s 41, downwardly directed,
   then sweep though an arc of 3200 in a vertical plan e, to terminate at a position of
 5 3400 downward relative to the vertical axis 41. During this sweep, the point cloud
   data would be sequentially acquired and accumulated by the data acquisition
   means.
   After completing one sweep, the scanner would rotate angularly about the vertical
   axis 41, a prescribed increment, and perform another 3200 sweep. The angular
10 increments about the vertical axis 41 would continue for successive sweeps until
   the scanner had completed an entire 1800 rotation t o generate a near spherical
   3D point cloud data.
   In practice, setup of the laser scanner 11 involves the mill being stopped and
   decontaminated to a requisite extent, allowing the residual crushed ore 42 to be
15 safely reposed at the bottom of the shell 25. As the inside of the mill is typically a
   highly corrosive environment to aid in the comminution process, decontamination
   is desirable before the laser scanner is placed inside the mill 23.
   The laser scanner can be positioned inside the mill by any suitable means, but in
   the present embodiment a boom 43 to which the scanner 11 is fixedly and rigidly
20 attached is passed through the entry hole 35 to position the scanner centrally
   within the shell 25. The boom is then rigidly secured at this position to remain
   stationary during subsequent scanning operations performed             by the laser
   scanner. In other embodiments the scanner can be manually set atop a tripod,
   although this is not preferred, as this would require a user to enter the mill, which
25 is not desirable for health and safety reasons.
   In the present embodiment, the scanner 11 is placed as close to the centre of the
   mill as possible, although the positioning does not have to be exact.
   The scanner 11 is operated remotely via the interface 21 and controlled by
   scanner operating software provided on the computer 13. This operating software
30 includes the data acquisition means 15.

                                             -33
   Data acquisition parameters of this operating software are set to capture 3D data
   of the inside of the mill surfaces at high spatial resolution (i.e. point spacing) and
   near-spherical angular field of view, in the manner as previously described.
   Once data capture is complete, the scanner is removed from the mill and captured
 5 point cloud data are exported from the data acquisition means 15 to an ASCII text
   file as Cartesian (i.e. X,Y,Z) co-ordinates referenced to the fixed reference point of
   the internally-defined co-ordinate system of the scanner, and the ASCII test file is
   stored on the computer 13.
   These data are subsequently imported into the processing software 19 provided
10 on the computer for processing with base reference data stored on the database
   17 to determine the relative displacement of the surface of the mill liners with
   respect to the base reference, which will now be described below in greater detail.
   The database 17 of the computer is designed to store base reference data in
   respect of a base reference specified for the particular mill being scanned. As
15 shown in Figure 3, this base reference in the present embodiment is the inner
   surface 45 of the shell 25 on which the mill liner segments 27 are affixed. The mill
   liners thus define a mill liner surface 47 that is distally spaced and thus displaced
   relative to the base reference, being the inner surface 45, defined by the base
   reference data. This displacement 49, shown with respect to one point 51 of the
20 point cloud of data for which point cloud data is acquired from the laser scanner,
   corresponds to the thickness of the liner segment 27 at that point relative to the
   position 53 of the inner surface 45 of the shell orthogonally adjacent thereto. This
   position 53 is obtained from the base reference data stored in the database.
   The base reference data may be obtained from a CAD model of the mill or from a
25 scanning of the internal shell without the liners in place, and thus is referenced to
   its own co-ordinate system, the X-axis of which is defined by the longitudinal axis
   of the mill. Thus the base reference data is characterised by certain key reference
   data comprising critical mill parameters that describe the geometry of the base
   reference of the mill, namely the location of the central longitudinal axis of the
30 cylindrical shell, the shell radius and the length of the cylindrical portion of the
   shell.

                                              -34
   In the present embodiment, the database 17 is maintained with critical mill
   parameters for each mill, which will vary from mill to mill depending upon the
   particular mill shape and configuration. In the case of a mill having a shell
   configuration as shown in Figure 2, and as shown diagrammatically in Figures 4
 5 and 5, the critical mill parameters stored in the database are:
          -      the radius of the mill from the central axis to the back of the liner
                 (BOL) that corresponds to the inner surface 45 of the cylindrical
                 portion or belly of the shell,
          -      the distance of the corner points within the belly liner seam lines 29
10               to the feed end 31 (hereafter called the FD corner points),
          -      the length of the mill between the feed end 31 BOL and discharge
                 end 33 BOL (see Figure 4), and/or
          -      the distance between a placed and scanned reference surface and
                 the BOL feed or discharge end (see Figure 5).
15 For mills with conical rather than planar ends, the cone angle relative to the
   cylinder axis and distance between feed and discharge end apexes are also
   required.
   The base reference data for the database is created a priori from either mill CAD
   models provided for the mill or a scan of a liner-less shell.
20 The co-ordinate system of the displacement data obtained by the laser scanner is
   referenced to the reference point of the laser scanner, whereas the base
   reference data for the mill is referenced to its own co-ordinate system related to
   the geometry of the mill. Therefore in order to derive accurate displacement data
   indicative of the mill liner segment thickness at any particular point, the two sets of
25 data need to be correlated. Accordingly, an important aspect of the processing
   software 19 is to provide for this correlation.

                                             -35
   Thus, as also shown in Figure 1, the processing software 19 generally comprises
   a number of notional processes including data editing means 55, referencing
   means 57 and displacement processing means 59.
   Since the laser scanner 11 collects data in a near spherical field of view, the raw
 5 point cloud data accumulated by the data acquisition means 15 also contains
   spurious points from outside the mill, collected when the laser beam passes
   through the holes 35 and 37 in the feed and discharge ends, respectively. These
   unwanted points are first filtered out from the accumulated point cloud data by the
   data editing means 55.
10 The data editing means 55 also includes partitioning means 61 to partition the
   point cloud data into discrete segments corresponding to different geometrically
   described sections of the BOL surface 45 before operation of the referencing
   means 57 and the displacement processing means 59.
   The segments of the point cloud representing the cylinder (belly) 25, feed end 31
15 and discharge end 33 sections of the mill correspond to different geometrically
   described sections and are thus separated at this stage so that they can be
   processed individually.
   The referencing means 57 provides for the orientation of the point cloud data
   relative to the critical mill parameters and the transformation of the point cloud of
20 data into the co-ordinate system coinciding with the base reference data.
   As discussed, the scanner data are referenced to the internal co-ordinate system
   of the instrument, which is not aligned with that of the CAD model of the mill.
   Since the model serves as the reference for liner thickness computations, it is
   necessary to transform the observed point data into a co-ordinate system such
25 that it coincides with that used for the reference data of the shell.            The
   transformation parameters are unknown and must therefore be estimated from the
   data.
   The referencing means 57, as a first step, includes an estimating process to
   estimate the cylinder axis from the point cloud data and a transformation process

                                                   -36
   to transform the data so that this axis and that of the CAD model reference data,
   mathematically coincide. Liner thickness can then be computed, as a second
   step, for each point by the displacement processing means 59.
   To estimate the cylinder axis and orientate the point cloud data to the base
 5 reference data of the CAD model, the                 estimation process is programmed to
   implement an algorithm based on the following mathematical modelling.
   The functional model adopted for a point, p, lying on an unbounded circular
   cylinder with its axis nominally aligned with the x-axis is:
10                                           Y2 +Z2 -r 2 =0
       where:
                      X         cosK     sinK    0 cosp      0 -sinp         xP -x,
                      YP   =   -sinK     cosK    0     0     1      0      yp - ye - y,
                      ZP          0        0     1   sinp    0    cosp     zP - ze - z,
                                COSK COS  e    sinK    - COSlSinp       XP -x,
                           =   - sinK cos      COSK     sinxKsing     yp - ye - y,
                                    sine         0        cos(P       z -ze -zm
15
       and the cylinder parameters are:
       r                  cylinder radius
       yc, zc             cylinder position in y and z directions
        p,K               rotation angles of cylinder about y and z axes
20     xm, ym, zm         co-ordinates of centroid (mean position of all belly liner
                          points; subtracted to improve numerical stability).
   The definitions used by the estimating process for working the model are:
       the vector of u (where u=5) parameters such that:

                                                  -37
                                      x= r        y,     z,      <p        |
      the vector of n 3D co-ordinate observations on the surface of the cylinder so
      that:
                         b    x1   y1  z1     x2    Y2     Z2      K     x,,   Y,, z
 5    where n=3m, and m is the number of observed points.
   The least-squares solution methodology is then applied whereby:
      the Functional notation is represented by:
                                      f(x,b)     =Y   2
                                                        +Z    2
                                                                 -r  2
                                                                       =0
      and linearisation is provided by the truncated Taylor series:
                                 f(x,b)     f(x0 ,b)+            3+          f
10
                                          = w+ A 3+ B i                 0
                                             ,l    ,uu 1    m,n nl 1    n.
      where
       x0               is the vector of approximate parameter values. For yc, zc and
                         p, K, these are assumed to be zero.                       For r, the reference
                        surface radius of the belly liner is used (r0 )
15     w    f(x,b)      is the vector of m cylinder functions (one per point) evaluated
                        at the approximate parameter values and observation point
                        co-ordinates
       A=               is the Jacobian matrix of partial derivatives of the cylinder
                        function taken with respect to each of the five parameters

                                               -38
       B =              is the Jacobian matrix of partial derivatives of the cylinder
            8i
                        function taken with respect to each observed point co
                        ordinate
       6                is the vector of corrections to the approximate parameter
 5                      values
                        is the vector of observation residuals.
   The least squares solution of 6 is then:
                       8 =-(      B  P- B TYIAY     A    B P- BTIb
                          = -N-lu
      where P is the (diagonal) weight matrix of observations., and the observation
10    weight is the reciprocal of the variance.
   The updated parameter estimates then become:
                                                 1 0
                                              x=x +
   providing a solution which is iterated using Newton's method until all elements of
   the parameter correction vector are insignificant.
15 The referencing means 57 subsequently transforms each point from the scanner
   co-ordinate system (x,y,z) into the mill system (X,Y,Z) using the transformation
   process wherein the estimated transformation parameters are:
                       X        cosKcostp     sinx   -cosKsing       X   -Xm
                       Y=      -sinK cos y    cosx    sinKSing     yp -yy -ym
                       ZP          sine         0       cos p      z - z - zm
       Note that the X axis coincides with the cylinder axis.

                                                -39
   The displacement processing means 59 then provides for calculating the
   displacement between the liner segment surface and the base reference using
   both sets of data in the co-ordinate system of the base reference data.
   Moreover, the radius (orthogonal distance from the cylinder axis to observation
 5 point) at point p is calculated as:
                                             r = NY2+Z2
   The liner thickness at point p is then the difference between the initial approximate
   radius (the radius of the reference surface of the belly liner) and the calculated
   radius
10                                      t ""  = 6r =r -rC
   After the liner thickness for the belly section is calculated, the liner thickness for
   the feed and discharge ends also needs to be calculated.
   To calculate liner thickness at the feed and discharge ends, it is necessary to not
15 only transform, but position the point cloud data segments that were discretely
   partitioned and stored for these ends by the partitioning means 61, relative to the
   BOL surfaces, constituting the base reference data for the feed and discharge
   ends, along the cylinder axis.        This can be done by the referencing means
   including a positioning process that is programmed to operate in accordance with
20 one of two methods:
        1. Extraction of the belly liner gap points (FD corners) from the scanner data.
        2. Inclusion of a planar feature placed at a known (relative to the BOL
            surface) location in or near the mill at the time of data acquisition.
   Having regard to Figure 4, the first method, known as the gap point two parallel
25 plane method, requires the positioning process to determine the gap points A, the
   length of the belly liner segments B, the gap C between the end of an adjacent

                                                -40
   belly liner segment and the feed end, and the overall longitudinal extent D of the
   belly of the mill.
   The along-axis distance of the gap points A to D from the feed and discharge
   ends can be obtained from the base reference data of the CAD plan of the mill, or
 5 determined by scans of the mill without the liners for the feed and discharge ends
   of the mill in place, i.e. by scanning the bare mill shell which corresponds with the
   back of liner (BOL) before taking into account possible rubber backing. Once
   these data are obtained, an along-axis translation is able to be computed.
   Essentially, the method involves:
10      a) Determining the gap points at all corners within one vertical plane (i.e. left
             hand circles depicted in Figure 4) of visible belly liner segments all around
             the mill cylinder by extraction from scan cloud;
        b) Determining gap points at all corners opposing those in a) within one
             vertical plane (i.e. right hand circles depicted in Figure 4) of visible belly
15           liner segments all around the mill cylinder by extraction from scan cloud;
        c) Determining the halfway plane between planes though points extracted
             under a) and b);
        d) Determining BOL feed position = %A + B + C
        e) Determining BOL discharge = BOL feed + D.
20 Variations that may need to be accommodated in different mill designs to that
   shown in Figure 4 may include belly liner segments shaped different to a
   rectangle (view at liner surface), eg trapezoid. C may comprise a physical gap, a
   filler ring or any other mill specific element.
   With respect to the second method, known as the planar feature point method, as
25 shown in Figure 5, a feature or reference plate 63 is disposed at the entry hole 35
   of the feed end 31 and the positioning process determines dimensions: A'
   pertaining to the distance between the reference plate and the inner surface of the

                                             -41
   feed end; and D' pertaining to the longitudinal extent of the cylindrical shell or
   belly; either by extraction from CAD models of mills or determination from scans
   of the mill without liners in place, i.e. by scanning the bare mill shell which
   corresponds with the back of liner (BOL) before taking into account possible
 5 rubber backing.
   The method then entails:
       a) Scanning of mill for wear monitoring after reference plate is positioned at
           known distance A'
       b) Determination of BOL feed = Reference plate plane + A'
10     c) Determination of BOL discharge = BOL feed + D'
   Variations that may need to be accommodated in different mill designs to that
   shown in Figure 5 may include the reference plate 63 being positioned at any
   other location, the reference plate being an object of other than planar shape, the
   mill ends being flat, conic, or of any other shape, and variations in liner element
15 arrangement.
   In the present embodiment, the processing software 19 can be used to determine
   liner thickness for either of two types of mill end: planar and conical.
   Regardless of the method used, the referencing means again invokes the
   transformation process to transform each point (for the feed end data, discharge
20 end data, and the reference plate placed in or on the mill) from the scanner co
   ordinate system (x,y,z) into the mill system (X,Y,Z) using the estimated
   transformation parameters as previously determined during the belly processing
   and mathematically represented as:
                        X        COSKCOS(   sinK    -cosisine    X -Xm
                        Y,   =  -sinK cos(e COSK     sinKSin(p yp -ye -ym
                        ZP          sin(p     0        COSe(    Z -ze -zm
25

                                             -42
   Thereafter the algorithm for the referencing means follows one of two branches
   dependent on the shell type (planar or conical) and the particular method adopted
   (the gap point two parallel planes or planar feature methods referred to above)
   and invokes the estimating process to estimate the critical parameters applicable
 5 to the particular method. The planar feature method is generally the preferred
   method, although this depends on whether a reference plane is able to be setup
   or defined for the mill measurements, due to the fewer gap points that need to be
   determined from the reference data.
   In the case of choosing the gap point two parallel planes method for a shell with
10 planar ends, the referencing means uses a simultaneous least-squares fit
   methodology.
   Here, the FD corner point loci are used to estimate the parameters of the parallel,
   best-fit planes in order to determine the along-axis, BOL distance to the feed and
   discharge ends.
15 The referencing means 57 then proceeds using an orientating process to apply
   the following functional model to orientate the point cloud data relative to key
   reference data of the feed and discharge ends and to transform the point cloud of
   data into a co-ordinate system coinciding with the base reference data for the feed
   and discharge ends respectively.
20 For a point, p, lying on unbounded plane 1 (plane closest to the feed end), the
   functional model is represented by:
                                     axp + byp + czp = di
   The functional model for a point, q, lying on unbounded plane 2 (plane closest to
   the discharge end) that is parallel to plane 1, is represented by:
25                                   axq + bYq + CZq = d2
       where:

                                             -43
      a,b,c      are the direction cosines common to planes 1 and 2
      d1 , d2    are the distances of the planes from the origin.
   The definitions used for working the model are:
      Let the vector of u (where u=5) parameters be the direction cosines plus the
 5    two distance parameters:
                                    x =| a    b  c di     d2 T
      Let the vector of n "point-on-plane" observations conditions be I and where n=p
      + q, and p and q is the number of observed points on planes 1 and 2,
      respectively.
10 Applying the least-squares solution methodology:
      Functional notation:
                                            b =f(x)
      Linearisation by truncated Taylor series:
                                 b+    ~(x' +A
                                       =f(x )- b +
      The following weighted constraint is required to enforce unit length of the
      direction cosine vector:
                                                        2
                                      g(x) = a2 +b 2 +c
20    The linearised form of constraint equation is given by:

                                                -44
                                             icg(x, )+ ag
                                                             ax
                                                 -w,+     G.
                                            1,1     1,1   1,u
                 where:
                  G, = G, =          is the Jacobian matrix of partial derivatives of the
                               constraint      equation         with respect to the plane
 5                             parameters;
                  we           is the evaluated constraint equation; and
                               is the constraint residual.
   The least squares solution of 5 is then:
                             0=   (ATPA+GTPcG)            I(ATPw+GTPwc)
   Pc is the (scalar) weight matrix of constraints, and is chosen such that Pc >> the
10 elements of P.
   Updated parameter estimates become:
                                                    1   0
   The solution is iterative using Newton's method until all elements of the parameter
   correction vector are insignificant.
15 The displacement processing means 59 then provides for calculating the
   displacement between the liner segment surface and the base reference using
   both sets of data in the co-ordinate system of the base reference data,
   commencing with the feed end. The point cloud data are already transformed and
   the calculation proceeds as follows:

                                             -45
       1. The position of the BOL surface (plane) along the cylinder (X) axis is:
                                        df =  d,   d   +D
                                                 2
          where D is the distance from the midpoint of the FD corner points to the
          feed end datum measured along the cylinder axis (derived from the CAD
 5        model).
       2. For a point S on the surface of the feed end, the mill liner thickness is
          calculated as:
                                       tler =X     -df
   The displacement processing means 59 then proceeds with calculating the liner
10 thickness at the discharge end as follows:
       1. The position of the BOL surface (plane) along the cylinder (X) axis is:
                                           d d =L+d,
          where L is the distance between discharge end and feed end BOLs
          measured along the cylinder axis (derived from the CAD model).
15     2. For a point S on the surface of the feed end, the mill liner thickness is
          calculated as:
                                       tler =X     -dd
   In the case of choosing the planar feature point method for a shell with planar
   ends the referencing uses a simultaneous least-squares fit methodology again.
20 According to this methodology, the measured data points on the planar feature
   placed into the mill at the time of acquisition are extracted and transformed (as
   described). These data are used to estimate the parameters of a best-fit plane in
   order to determine the along-axis, BOL distance to the feed and discharge ends.

                                               -46
   The referencing means 57 proceeds with applying the following functional model.
   For a point, p, lying on unbounded plane 1 (plane closest to the feed end) the
   functional model is represented by:
                                      axp + byp + czp    = d
 5    where:
      a,b,c      are the direction cosines common to plane 1
      d          is the distance of the plane from the origin.
   The definitions used for working the model are:
      Let the vector of u (where u=4) parameters be the direction cosines plus the
10    two distance parameters
                                         x=a       b   c   d
                                         ui
      Let the vector of n "point-on-plane" observations conditions be b and where
      n=p (p is the number of observed points on the plane).
   Applying the least-squares solution methodology:
15    Functional notation:
                                               b = f(x)
      Linearisation by truncated Taylor series:
                                  b+i -f(x 0 )+
                                      r=f(x    0 )-b+
                                       r    w+ A
                                     /n1    nj  n  u&1

                                                 -47
      The following weighted constraint is required to enforce unit length of the
      direction cosine vector:
                                         g(x)  = a2 +b2 +c2 = 1
      The linearised form of constraint equation is given by:
                                             e =~ x   )+
 5
                                             fc = wc +Ge 6
          where:
                 G,= G, =             is the Jacobian matrix of partial derivatives of the
                                constraint      equation    with respect  to   the  plane
                                parameters;
10               w,             is the evaluated constraint equation; and
                                is the constraint residual.
   The least squares solution of 8 is then:
                             $=    (ATPA+GTPG)         I(ATPw+GTPw)
   Pc is the (scalar) weight matrix of constraints, chosen such that Pc >> the
   elements of P.
15 Updated parameter estimates become:
                                                   1 0
   The solution is iterative using Newton's method until all elements of the parameter
   correction vector are insignificant.

                                               -48
   The displacement processing means 59 then computes the liner thickness from
   the already transformed points as follows:
   Firstly for the feed end calculations
       1. The position of the BOL surface (plane) along the cylinder (X) axis is:
 5                                           df =d+D
           where D is the distance from the location of the planar feature location to
           the feed end datum measured along the cylinder axis (derived from the
           CAD model)
       2. For a point S on the surface of the feed end, the mill liner thickness is
10         calculated as:
                                         tle   = X  - df
   The discharge end calculations are then performed:
       1. The position of the BOL surface (plane) along the cylinder (X) axis is:
                                             dd  = L+df
15         where L is the distance between discharge end and feed end BOLs
            measured along the cylinder axis (derived from the CAD model)
       2. For a point S on the surface of the discharge end, the mill liner thickness is
           calculated as:
                                         tler    X  -d
20 In the case of using the gap point two parallel planes method for a shell having
   conical ends a simultaneous least-squares fit methodology is followed. The
   referencing means 57 performs the estimation of the parallel plane parameters in
   the same manner as previously described for the planar end shell.

                                                      -49
   The displacement processing means 59, however, computes the liner thickness
   from the already transformed points as follows:
   Firstly for the feed end calculations:
       1. Position of the apex of the BOL cone surface along the cylinder (X) axis:
 5                                              df =   d1 d +D
                                                           2
           where D is the distance from the midpoint of the FD corner points to the
           feed end cone apex measured along the cylinder axis (derived from the
           CAD model).
       2. For each point S on the feed end surface, perform the following translation
10         along the x-axis (cylinder axis) to the cone apex:
                                                X's         XS -df
                                                Y'=
                                                 YS           YS
                                                                  s
                                                 ZIS          zS
       3. Given the equation of the cone (with origin at its apex):
                                                                    2
                                                Y, 2 +Z'
                                                          2
                                                            =m 2 X'
           where m is the slope of the cone calculated from the cone angle 0 (derived
15         from the CAD model) as:
                                                     m = tan0
       The mill liner thickness (orthogonal distance to cone surface) at point S is then
       calculated as:
                                                 M" '-Y'+Z'2
                                             t = m      S      S      S
                                     tSliner
                                                            +   -

                                                -50
   Then the discharge end calculations are performed:
       1. The position of the apex of the BOL cone surface along the cylinder (X)
          axis is:
                                             d d =L+d,
 5        where L is the distance between discharge end and feed end cone apexes
           measured along the cylinder axis (derived from the CAD model).
       2. For each point S on the discharge end surface, perform the following
          translation along the x-axis (cylinder axis) to the cone apex:
                                          X's         XS- dd
                                          Y'=
                                           YS             YS
                                                             s
                                           ZIS            zS
10     3. Given the equation of a cone (with origin at its apex):
                                                               2
                                          Y' 2 +Z'  2
                                                      =m 2 X'
          where m is the slope of the cone calculated from the cone angle 0 (derived
          from the CAD model) as:
                                              m = -tan0
15        the mill liner thickness (orthogonal distance to cone surface) at point S is
          calculated as:
                                    liner         S        S     S_
                                        S              -Y
   In the case of using the planar feature point data method for a shell having conical
   ends a simultaneous least-squares fit methodology is also followed. The
20 referencing means 57 performs the estimation of the plane parameters as

                                                -51
   previously described for gap point two parallel plane method used for a planar end
   shell.
   The displacement processing means 59, however, computes the liner thickness
   from the already transformed points as follows:
 5 Firstly for the feed end calculations:
       1. Position of the apex of the BOL cone surface along the cylinder (X) axis:
                                              df =d+D
           where D is the distance from the location of the planar feature location to
           the feed end cone apex measured along the cylinder axis (derived from the
10         CAD model).
       2. For each point S on the feed end surface, perform the following translation
           along the x-axis (cylinder axis) to the cone apex:
                                          X's         XS -df
                                          Y'=
                                           YS           YS
                                                          s
                                          Z'S           ZS
       3. Given the equation of a cone (with origin at its apex):
                                                              2
15                                        Y' 2 +Z'  2
                                                      =m 2 X'
           where m is the slope of the cone calculated from the cone angle 0 (derived
           from the CAD model) as:
                                               m = tan0
           the mill liner thickness (orthogonal distance to cone surface) at point S is
20         then calculated as:

                                                    -52
                                     liner t"=mX'sS -Y'+ S
                                                                     'S
                                   tS        -
                                            s        21+m2
                                                        1
   The discharge end calculations are then performed as:
      1. The position of the apex of the BOL cone surface along the cylinder (X)
          axis is:
 5                                                dd =L+df
          where L is the distance between discharge end and feed end cone apexes
          measured along the cylinder axis (derived from the CAD model).
      2. For each point S on the discharge end surface, perform the following
          translation along the x-axis (cylinder axis) to the cone apex:
                                               X'S        XS -dd
10                                             Y's=         Ys
                                                ZIS          zS
      3. Given the equation of the cone (with origin at its apex):
                                                        2      2    2
                                               Y, 2 +Z'   =m     X'
          where m is the slope of the cone calculated from the cone angle 0 (derived
          from the CAD model) as:
15                                                 m = -tans
      The mill liner thickness (orthogonal distance to cone surface) at point S is then
      calculated as:
                                           t" =mX' S - Y'+Z'2 S       S
                                    Sliner
                                                          +    -

                                             -53
       The processing software 19 also provides for statistical analysis and quality
       control using appropriate software processing modules.
       In the present embodiment the following metrics are rigorously calculated for
       the cylinder and plane fit processes for quality assurance of the liner thickness
 5     computations:
       1. Covariance matrix of estimated parameters: standard deviations that
           indicate parameter precision and the correlation coefficient between
           parameters that can flag weak geometry are analysed;
       2. Least-squares residuals are tested using data snooping methods to identify
10         and subsequently remove outlier points.       Root mean square (RMS) and
           maximum residual metrics are also calculated;
       3. The estimated variance factor is used as a further indicator of the presence
           of outliers and/or incorrect weight matrix selection.
   A check is also made of the plane (parallel and individual) direction cosine
15 parameters, a, b and c. Due to the point transformation using the rotation matrix
   from the cylinder fit, M, the first parameter (a) should be unity and the others (b
   and c) equal to zero.         Differences from idealised values are analysed for
   numerical significance.
   The results of all of the aforementioned metrics are logged at various stages of
20 processing as quality assurance (QA) measures to ensure data integrity.
   An important advantage of the present embodiment is that the mill dataset
   ultimately obtained can be used to yield a comprehensive statistical and graphical
   report to the user. As shown in Figure 1, the system includes mapping means 65
   to provide the user with a number of different formats for reporting the results of
25 the scan on completion of the thickness computations.
   The mapping means 65 includes data processing means, which in the present
   embodiment is in the form of the processing software 19, to obtain the point cloud
   data defining a surface in a co-ordinate system coinciding with the base reference

                                           -54
   and to generate displacement data in respect of the displacement between each
   point of the point cloud and a related point of the base reference in the manner
   previously described. The mapping means 65 also includes comparison means 67
   to compare the displacement data against a prescribed threshold, which in the
 5 present embodiment is a critical distance from the back of the liner in order to
   gauge liner wear, eg. 30 mm, and display means 67 to graphically display the
   results of the scan and the comparison in the various formats. These formats
   comprise the following:
   1. 3D surfaces of the liner surface and thickness for the belly and feed and
10    discharge ends. An example of a 3D surface image of the liner segments for a
      portion of the belly and discharge end is shown in Figure 6 and of the liner
      thickness is shown in Figure 7.
   2.  Contour maps of the liner surface and thickness for the belly and feed and
      discharge ends. An example of contour maps of the liner thickness for the
15    belly is shown in Figure 8 and for the feed end is shown in Figure 9. Similar
      maps for the discharge end are derived in the same manner.
   3. Histograms showing the frequency distribution of liner thickness relative to a
      prescribed thickness threshold for the belly and feed and discharge ends. An
      example of histograms showing the liner thickness for all points of a scan is
20    shown in Figure 10 and for a detailed view of the points around a critical
      threshold of 30 mm is shown in Figure 11. The definition of the critical
      threshold varies with mill design and depends on a number of factors.
   4. Cumulative histograms of liner thickness relative to the prescribed thickness
      threshold for the belly and feed and discharge ends. An example of cumulative
25    histograms for the scans of Figures 10 and 11 are shown in Figures 12 and 13
      respectively.
   5.  Plots of slices of data extracted from the mill ends along a circular path
      concentric with the cylinder axis. An example of a cross section through the
      feed end showing liner surface point cloud data along a circular path within a
30    radius of 3.6 to 3.7 m is shown in Figure 14, the relative location of which in a

                                             -55
       3D scan is shown by the inner dark shaded ring 66 around the entry hole in
        Figure 15, relative to the BOL reference plane 68.
   6. Plots of the points below predefined thickness threshold for the belly and feed
       and discharge ends. Examples of plots showing the location of points below a
 5     prescribed thickness for the feed end is shown in Figure 16 and for the belly in
        Figure 17.
   7. Numerical output of the number and/or percentage of points below a
       predefined thickness threshold; mean liner thickness or other pertinent
       statistical liner information.
10 In the case of the second format for displaying contour maps of the point cloud
   data or displacement data, the display means 69 includes data manipulation
   means 71 for unwrapping the point cloud data and/or the displacement data onto
   a 2D plane for subsequent graphical display. A graphical representation showing
   the correlation between the 3D point cloud data and the unwrapped arrangement
15 of such in 3D is shown in Figure 18. The display means 69 also includes image
   visualisation means 73 to provide different colours or shades representing
   different magnitudes of displacement relative to the prescribed threshold on the
   contour maps, as shown in various of the preceding examples.
   An example of a report that can be produced using the mapping means and
20 selected formats for a particular mill is shown in the accompanying Appendix to
   this description, which is provided after Figure 23 of the drawings.
   The actual implementation and use of the processing software 19 in the present
   embodiment is best shown in the flowcharts of Figures 19 to 23, which will now be
   described in detail.
25 The main program flowchart for the processing software 19 is shown in Figures
   19A. 19B and 19C of the drawings.            A main menu 101 is designed to be
   presented to the user initially to provide various options for user input and choice
   of the particular processing options available.    In the present embodiment, four
   principal processing options are provided comprising:

                                               -56
            1.        Belly processing 103
            2.        Feed and discharge end processing 105
            3.        Database input 107
            4.        Batch processing 109.
 5 On invoking the belly processing option 103 the program enters a selection
   process to provide the user with two options, one to select the base reference
   data for the belly segment of a specific mill from the database 17, which is
   designed to store historical base reference data for each mill that the system is
   used, and the other to input mill parameters as base reference data if the mill to
10 be scanned is a new mill which has no previous base reference data recorded.
   In the case of the latter, the program directs the user to the database input
   process 107, which invokes a routine to allow the user to input the relevant mill
   parameters to create new base reference for the particular mill concerned. This
   may simply involve loading a pre-existing data file comprising a CAD model of the
15 mill, if such a data file exists, or creating a data file model of the mill from scratch
   by conducting a scan of the bare mill shell without the liners in place.
   Once the data file is created via the database input processing option 107, it is
   stored amongst the other data files for other mills and is available for selection via
   the belly processing option or module 103 or feed and discharge end processing
20 option 105.
   After the database input 107 is completed, the program has a facility 111 to return
   the user to the main menu 101.
   As shown in Figure 19B, the feed and discharge end processing option 105
   invokes a selection module 113 to provide the user with a set of options
25 corresponding to those of the belly processing selection module 103, i.e. to select
   base reference data for the feed and discharge end segments of the particular mill
   from the database 17, or to input new mill parameters in the event that a data file
   of such for the particular mill is not stored on the database. In the case of the

                                               -57
   latter, the program similarly directs the user to the database input module 107, as
   in the case of the belly processing selection module 103.
   In both the belly processing selection module 103 and the feed and discharge end
   processing selection module 113, on the user selecting an existing data file for a
 5 specific mill, an editable input data file is created in which to store point cloud data
   for the belly or feed and discharge ends derived from a scan of the particular mill
   with the liner segments in situ.
   The program then advances to stage 115 of reading in belly data from the belly
   data segment of the point cloud data processed by the partitioning means 61 in
10 the case of belly processing, or stage 117 of reading in feed and discharge end
   data from the feed and discharge end data segments of the point cloud data
   processed by the partitioning means 61 in the case of feed and discharge end
   processing.
   For belly processing, after reading in the belly data at step 115, the referencing
15 means 57 is operated by the program invoking an estimating routine 119 to
   estimate the key cylinder parameters from the point cloud data using the
   mathematical model previously described.
   On completion of this, the program invokes another routine 121 to write the
   cylinder parameters derived from the mathematical model, as well as prescribed
20 quality assurance (QA) measures, to a log file.
   The referencing means 57 then attends to orientating the point cloud data relative
   to the base reference data by the program invoking a transformation routine 123
   to transform the co-ordinate system of the point cloud data to the co-ordinate
   system of the base reference data using the transformation matrix previously
25 described.
   The displacement means 59 is then operated by the program proceeding with
   invoking a displacement routine 125 to calculate the belly liner thickness at each
   point of the re-orientated and transformed point cloud data using the mathematical
   equations previously described.

                                            -58
   A flowchart more particularly describing the process steps performed by the
   estimating routine 119, the transformation routine 123 and the displacement
   routine 125 is shown in Figure 20 and will be described in more detail later.
   For feed and discharge end processing, as shown in Figure 19B, the program
 5 performs an initial check at step 127 to ascertain whether the belly has already
   been processed or not, prior to invoking the selection module 113. If not, the user
   is returned to the main menu at 129. If so, then the program permits the user to
   proceed to the selection module 113.
   After reading in the feed and discharge end point cloud data at step 117, the
10 referencing means 57 orientates the point cloud data relative to the base
   reference data of the feed and discharge ends by invoking the transformation
   module     131.  This  module     uses the    previously estimated   transformation
   parameters and transforms the point cloud data to the co-ordinate system of base
   reference data using the mathematical models previously described.
15 The program then proceeds to the datum determination stage 133, where the
   datum for positioning the point cloud data segments for the feed and discharge
   ends relative to the BOL surface base reference data along the cylinder axis is
   determined by either of the two methods previously described, i.e. the gap point
   two parallel planes method or the planar feature method.
20 The particular method is predetermined for the particular mill by the user, and the
   program branches to the appropriate routine to be performed depending upon the
   particular parameter specified for such.
   In the case of the two parallel planes method, the program branches to the start of
   this routine 135 and then invokes a read subroutine 137 to read in data for the
25 feed end and discharge end, parallel planes.
   The program then invokes the requisite estimation module 139 for estimating the
   parallel plane parameters using the mathematical models previously described.
   The flowchart for the particular routine is shown in Figure 21 and will be described

                                             -59
   in more detail later. A logging routine 141 is then invoked to write the derived
   plane parameters and prescribed QA measures to a log file.
   The program then reaches another decision point 143 to invoke the appropriate
   routine for computing the thickness of the liner using the parallel plane method
 5 according to whether the ends are planar or conical. The parameter determining
   which routine is processed constitutes part of the mill parameters prescribed for
   the mill, and results in the program invoking the planar end routine 145 or the
   conical end routine 147, as shown in Figure 19C. These routines perform the
   thickness calculations as previously described for the displacement means 59,
10 suitably modified for the particular design of mill end concerned.
   In the case of the planar feature method, as shown in Figure 19B, the program
   branches from the datum determination stage 133 to the start 149 of the planar
   feature routine and then invokes a read subroutine 151 to read in data for the
   ends and the planar feature or reference 63.
15 The program then invokes the requisite estimation module 153 for estimating the
   parameters of the single, best fit plane to determine the along-axis BOL distance
   to the feed and discharge ends using the mathematical models previously
   described. The flowchart for the particular routine is shown in Figure 22 and will
   be described in more detail later. A logging routine 155 is then invoked to write the
20 derived plane parameters and the prescribed QA measures to a log file.
   Similar to the two parallel planes method, the program then reaches a decision
   point 157 to invoke the appropriate routine for computing the thickness of the liner
   using the planar feature method according to whether the ends are planar or
   conical. According to the parameter prescribed for the particular mill, the program
25 proceeds with invoking either the planar end routine 159 or the conical end routine
   161, as shown in Figure 19C. These routines then perform the thickness
   calculations as previously described for the displacement means 59, suitably
   modified for the particular design of mill end concerned.
   In both the belly processing and the feed and discharge end processing options
30 103 and 105, after completion of the mill liner thickness computations, the

                                              -60
   program proceeds to the reporting phase where the mill mapping means becomes
   operational. In both cases the program proceeds to a decision step 163 in the
   case of the belly processing option or decision step 165 in the case of the feed or
   discharge end processing option, to enquire as to whether graphical output is
 5 required to be reported. The answer to this query may either being included within
   the input parameters predefined for the particular mill and input via the batch
   processing option 109, or solicited directly from the user in real time.
   In either case the program operates the display means to invoke a routine that
   generates and displays prescribed contour maps for the respective surface in
10 response to an affirmative answer to the query, or simply calculates the histogram
   and cumulative histogram of the liner thickness in response to a negative answer
   to the query. In the case of an affirmative answer in the belly processing option, a
   belly mapping routine 167 is invoked and in the case of an affirmative answer to
   the feed and discharge end processing option, the end mapping routine 169 is
15 invoked.
   In the belly mapping routine 167, the data manipulation means operates to
   unwrap point cloud data in respect of the cylindrical shell surface and the point
   cloud resampled onto a regular 2D grid, where the contour lines are calculated. In
   the end mapping routine 169, the data manipulation means operates to similarly
20 resample the point cloud data onto a regular 2D grid where the contour lines are
   similarly calculated.
   Following calculation of the contour lines, in accordance with the second format,
   the image visualisation means invokes the image display routines 171 and 173,
   respectively, to graphically represent different magnitudes of contour thickness
25 displacement relative to a prescribed threshold with different colours or shades.
   The program provides for other routines to be optionally invoked for other formats,
   such as cross sections in routines 175 and 177, as well as the histogram routines
   179 and 181 for calculating the mill liner thickness. In addition to displaying the
   requisite images on the screen, the data in respect thereof is also written to the
30 file for the particular mill and stored on the database 17 for subsequent access.

                                               -61
   In the case of the histograms, these are also displayed, in accordance with the
   third and fourth formats by the routines 183 and 185, and invoked directly by the
   program in response to a negative answer to the decision steps 163 and 165
   respectively.
 5 Further routines are invoked for reporting liner wear statistics 187 and 189 and
   images of points below the critical thickness threshold 191 and 193. In both cases
   these are similarly displayed and written to a file for storing within the database.
   Following calculation and display of all of the selected reports for either the belly
   processing option or the feed and discharge end processing option, the program
10 returns to the main menu at steps 195 and 197 respectively.
   The batch processing option 109 follows a routine whereby the user is provided
   with a facility for predefining input options for both belly processing and feed and
   discharge end processing options to run automatically in a batch mode. On
   completion of the batch processing module, the program provides the facility 199
15 to return to the main menu to proceed with one of the remaining options.
   The    specific   processes    performed      by the   estimating    routine  117,  the
   transformation routine 123 and the displacement routine 125 for the belly
   processing option, will now be described in relation to Figure 20 in more detail.
   Firstly, with respect to the estimating routine 119, the cylinder parameter
20 estimation proceeds at step 201 with initially calculating the centroid position of all
   of the liner points from the point cloud data derived from the data editing means
   and subtracting this position from the coordinates of each point. The purpose of
   this is to essentially determine the central axis of the shell relative to the
   coordinate system of the point cloud of data, whereby the reference point used by
25 the laser scanner and the accumulated surface data is normally distant from the
   centroid position both with respect to its radial and axial position relative to the
   true central axis of the cylindrical shell.
   The process then proceeds at 203 to set initial approximate values for the cylinder
   parameters, whereby two cylinder positions and two rotation angles are all set to

                                              -62
   zero, and the radius is set to the BOL radius, which is one of the key parameters
   obtained from the base reference data for the mill.             The cylinder parameter
   estimation then commences as an iterative process at 205.
   The iterative process initially involves forming the linearised cylinder equation for
 5 each point on the belly liner surface at 207;           then forming and solving the
   least-squares normal equation to obtain corrections to approximate parameter
   values at 209; and finally deciding whether the corrections are significant at 211.
   If the corrections are significant, then the provisionally set values for the cylinder
   parameters are adjusted incrementally a prescribed amount from zero and the
10 process steps 207 to 211 are performed again to determine whether the
   corrections are again significant. This iteration continues until the query at 211
   determines that the corrections are not significant and fall within the prescribed
   tolerance, at which time the selected cylinder parameters are determined to be
   correct for the shell.
15 The transformation routine 123 is then commenced and performed at step 213,
   where all belly points from the point cloud data in the scanner coordinate system
   are transformed into the coordinate system of the base reference data of the mill
   using the best fit cylinder parameters previously estimated.
   On completing this transformation the belly liner thickness computation is
20 performed by the displacement routine 125 at step 215, whereby the radius of
   each transformed point is calculated and subtracted from the prescribed BOL
   radius to obtain mill liner thickness at that point relative to the base reference.
   The specific process for the parallel plane parameter estimation module 113 will
   now be described in relation to Figure 21 in more detail.
25 As shown, the parallel plane parameter estimation process commences at 217
   and proceeds with an iterative process commencing at 219, whereby the
   linearised plane equation for each FD corner point is initially formed. The process
   then proceeds with forming the            least-squares normal equations        at 221.
   Thereafter, at step 223, the linearised direction cosine constraint equation is
30 formed and added to the normal equations formed at step 221.

                                            -63
   The least-squares normal equations are then solved at 225 to obtain corrections
   to approximate parameter values. These corrections are then checked against
   standard convergence tolerance parameters to determine whether they are
   numerically significant at step 227; and if so, the FD corner point values are
 5 adjusted and steps 219 to 227 are repeated again to determine whether the
   corrections are significant.    When the corrections are determined not to be
   significant, at which point the FD corner points are deemed to align with the true
   central axis of the cylindrical shell, the minor thickness computations are then
   attended to for each end at 229.
10 The specific process performed by the single plane parameter estimation module
   153 will now be described in relation to Figure 22 in more detail.
   As shown, the single plane parameter estimation process begins at step 231, and
   as in the parallel plane estimation process, iteration commences at 233, whereby
   the linearised plane equation for each point on the planar feature or reference 63
15 is formed.
   The least-squares normal equations are then formed at 235, followed by the
   linearised direction cosine constraint equation at 237, which is added to the
   normal equations formed at 235.
   The least-squares normal equations are then solved at 239 to obtain corrections
20 to approximate parameter values.
   The corrections are then compared at 241 against standard convergence
   tolerance parameters.      If the corrections are numerically significant then an
   adjustment is made to the estimated position of the planar feature and the
   process steps 233 to 241 are repeated to determine whether the corrections are
25 still significant or not.
   This iteration continues until the corrections are deemed not to be significant,
   falling within the prescribed tolerance, whereupon the estimated position of the
   planar feature is deemed to be correctly aligned with the base reference data of

                                             -64
   the mill. Thereafter, the process proceeds with computing the liner thickness at
   step 243.
   The user operation flowchart is shown in Figures 23A and 23B and is substantially
   the same as the program flowchart. Accordingly corresponding reference
 5 numerals are used to identify corresponding routines and modules described in
   relation to the program flowchart.
   CRUSHERMAPPER
   A second application of an embodiment of the invention is directed towards a
   system and method specifically adapted for mapping and measuring the thickness
10 of liners on a mantle and concaves of a crusher.
   Owing to the geometric differences between mills and crushers the measuring of
   the mantle and concave surface to determine its difference from a base reference
   requires several further considerations. For instance:
   1)      laser scanner measurement field of view in a crusher is limited to line of
15 sight, therefore the laser instrument must be suitable to view into any narrow
   lower crusher cavity;
   2)      multiple scans are required for inspection shutdowns when the spider
   assembly including the mantle in situ so as to cover all areas of the liners that are
   otherwise obstructed.     This is particularly important for concave liners because
20 they are known to wear asymmetrically, i.e. if measurements of concave liner
   thickness are only based on one concave side, then these may not be
   representative and lead to either conservative or optimistic condition monitoring
   output;
   3)      As a consequence of 2), scan registration may be required, i.e. the joining
25 of individual scans to create the continuous 3D liner surface; this can be achieved
   either by using fixed, non-wearing structures in the field of view of a sufficient
   number of liner scans, by matching the overlap of liner surfaces between scans,
   or by placing dedicated fixed targets at suitable locations on the surrounding
   infrastructure.   Alternatively each scan can be treated individually rather than

                                             -65
   registered and joined to create a continuous surface. If individual scans are not to
   be registered together then each individual scan must undergo each step of the
   process so as to provide the end result.
   4)       As for any liner wear monitoring application using laser scanning, thickness
 5 registration, i.e. the correlation of the visible liner surface to the back of liner is
   required; this can be achieved by using fixed, non-wearing structures in the field
   of view of a scan with known offsets to the back of liner, or by establishing a
   precisely known absolute scanner position and orientation for every liner scan by
   utilizing fixed targets for example
10 5)       A suitable scanner deployment mechanism that removes the need for
   operator access to the crusher cavity and that protects the scanner is used to
   psotion the scanner at the various positions
   Figure 24 illustrates a conventional gyratory crusher 308 used for crushing large
   solid objects, such as ores, into smaller pieces. The gyratory crusher 308 is one of
15 several types of crushers that can be used for such purpose. Other crushers
   include, jaw crusher, cone crusher and cylindrical roll crushers (such as high
   pressure grinding rolls). For ease of understanding, the present invention will only
   be described with respect to a gyratory crusher. However, it will be apparent to a
   person skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to a gyratory
20 crusher and is also applicable to other types of crushers which are within the
   scope of the present invention. For example, a gyratory crusher includes a mantle
   having mantle liners thereon and a concave having concave liners thereon. A
   person skilled in the art would be able to make the resemblance that the concave
   in gyratory crushers corresponds with the bowl in a cone crusher. Similarly, a
25 person skilled in the art would be able to make the resemblance that the concave
   in gyratory crushers corresponds with the set of vertically-inclined jaws.
   With reference to Figure 24, the gyratory crusher 308 comprises a downwardly
   expanding central conical member (or a mantle) 316 extending substantially
   vertically within the crusher cavity 317 and an outer upwardly expanding
30 frustroconically shaped member hereinafter referred to as a shell 318. The shell
   318 may comprise two or more portions, such as, a top shell (or a concave) 19

                                            -66
   and a bottom shell 320. One or more mantle liners 321 are provided on and over
   the surface of the mantle 316 in order to protect the mantle 316 from damage or
   wear. The mantle liners 321 provide a crushing surface of the crusher 308. One
   or more concave liners 322 are provided on and over an inner surface 323 of the
 5 concave 319 in order to protect the inner surface 323 from damage or wear. The
   concave liners 322 also provide a crushing surface opposing the mantle liners
   321.
   A spider assembly 324 comprising a spider 325 having two or more arms
   extending from a central portion is provided on the top edges of the concave 319.
10 The spider arm is provided with a liner 327 and the central portion is provided with
   a spider cap 328 so as to protect the spider from damage and wear. The spider
   325 defines an inlet 329.
   In operation, large solid objects, such as ore, are tipped into the ROM bin 301
   which then pass through the inlet 329 defined by the spider 325 between the
15 spider arms and into the crusher cavity 317 for crushing into smaller pieces. The
   mantle 316 has a small circular movement in an eccentric fashion, whereas the
   concave 319 is fixed in position. When the ore reaches near the bottom portion of
   the crusher cavity 317, the ore is crushed by the closing of the gap between the
   moving mantle liner 321 and the fixed concave liners 322. In particular, the ore is
20 crushed near the bottom of the top shell at location of the Closed Side Setting
   (CSS) 329a, while crushed ore is allowed to exit the crusher cavity 317 at location
   of the Open Side Setting (OSS) 329b as for example illustrated in Figure 25.
   Over time, the mantle liners 321 and the concave liners 322 will wear and will
   need replacing in order for the crusher 308 to perform in an efficient manner. The
25 crusher 308 will need to be shut down in order to replace the mantle and/or
   concave liners 321, 322, thus resulting in crusher downtime which is undesirable
   from an economic point of view. It is important to accurately determine when the
   mantle and/or concave liners 321, 322 need to be replaced so that the liners 321,
   322 are not replaced too early (for example, resulting in liner wastage and
30 unnecessary crusher downtime)          and too    late (for example,    resulting  in
   deterioration in crusher performance and potential damage to the structure of the
   crusher 308). Therefore, it is desirable to determine an optimal time to replace the

                                            -67
   mantle and/or concave liners in order to minimise crusher downtime, increase
   productivity and reduce costs.
   According to embodiments of the present invention, there are provided a condition
   monitoring system and a method for monitoring the wear of the mantle and
 5 concave liners3 21, 322 of a crusher 308 without the need for physical access
   within the crusher cavity 317 by a person as taught in the prior art. As described
   above, a person skilled in the art can understand that the condition monitoring
   system and method are not limited to a gyratory crusher and other types of
   crushers are within the scope of the present invention. The condition monitoring
10 system and method are described only with respect to a gyratory crusher for the
   sake of conciseness.
   The condition monitoring system monitors the wear of the mantle and concave
   liners by performing three-dimensional scans of the surfaces of the mantle and
   concave liners 321, 322 to obtain three-dimensional point cloud data for each
15 scan. Once the point cloud data is collected, the data can then be processed and
   analysed as described herein below to produce useful technical information and
   deliverables such as the remaining life of the liners 321, 322 before it should be
   replaced, the wear rates of different sections of the mantle and concave liners and
   the position of localised liner failure.
20 For example, monitoring the wear of the mantle and concave liners 321, 322
   provides data to facilitate in determining timing or schedules for adjustments or
   replacement of the mantle as necessary in order to maintain the CSS and OSS
   within desirable ranges for effective crushing.
   Further, the crusher condition monitoring system and method may facilitate
25 improvement or optimisation in the operational performance of the crusher 308.
   The condition monitoring system comprises a deployment system 330, scanning
   means such as a scanner 31 and a computer (not shown). The deployment
   system 330 is configured as a support to support the scanner 31. The deployment
   system 330 is used for deploying a scanner 331 attached thereto in the vicinity
30 the inlet 329 between the spider arms or into the crusher cavity 317 for scanning

                                             -68
   the surface of mantle liner 321           and/or concave liner 322, as depicted
   schematically in Figure 26.
   The deployment means can take any form, for instance the scanner may be
   attached to a tripod deployment system 332, as in this embodiment, or a rock
 5 breaker which is generally associated with crushers.
   The computer includes data acquisition means, processing means and storage
   means. The processing means includes data editing means for editing the point
   cloud data collected by the scanner 331 (such as to filter unwanted points). The
   processing means may also include a referencing means for the orientation of the
10 point cloud data and the transformation of the point cloud data into a particular co
   ordinate system were needed.
   Preferably, the scanner 331 is a high precision three-dimensional (3D) laser
   scanner that collects a large amount of precise 3D point measurements to
   generate point cloud data by directly measuring distance to a remote surface by
15 time of light laser range-finding. The scanner 331 should be able to capture data
   in a spherical or near-spherical field of view (FOV) and able to capture a dense
   dataset in the order of several million points throughout the full FOV within a short
   time period, such as a few minutes.
   Alternatively or in addition to using a laser scanner to generate point cloud data of
20 a structure, other means capable of generating point cloud data can be used such
   as a photogrammetry system, which are within the scope of the present invention.
   For conciseness, the present invention will only be described with respect to a
   laser scanner 31.
   When the tripod deployment system 332 is in a rest state on the outer rim portion
25 345, the scanner 331 can then be controlled remotely to perform a three
   dimensional scan of the surrounding environment, thereby capturing three
   dimensional point cloud data including data associated with a section of the
   surface of the mantle and concave liners.

                                             -69
   In such manner, a section of the liners 321, 322 can be captured by the scanner
   331. However, there will be other sections of the surface of the liners 321, 322
   which are out of the line of sight of the scanner 331        during the first scan as
   described above. In order to capture the other sections of the surface of the liners
 5 321, 322, the deployment system 332 is lifted from rest, and rotated so as to
   move the scanner 331 to another area for scanning. For example, the scanner is
   rotated around 1200 and then the tripod deployment system 332 is lowered and
   rested upon the outer rim 45 of the spider 325 in a manner similar as described
   above. After capturing 3D point cloud data at that location, the tripod deployment
10 system 332 is again lifted and rotated another 1200, and then lowered and rested
   upon the outer rim 345 of the spider 325 for capturing further 3D point cloud data
   at that location. It is apparent to a person skilled in the art that more or less than
   the three scanning locations described above, can be undertaken and the angle of
   rotation can be adjusted without going beyond the scope of the invention.
15 The method or process for monitoring the wear condition of a crusher according to
   embodiments of the present invention will now be described in greater detail
   below.
   The process can be generally categorised into the following steps:
           i.      Scanning of crusher cavity 317 (i.e., the surface of the concave and
20         mantle liners 322, 321).
           ii.     Registration of individual scans for joining the individual scans in
           order to create a continuous three dimensional representation of a surface
           (e.g., mantle and concave liners surface 321, 322).
           iii.    Segmentation of data into different components (e.g., separate
25         concave liner 322 data and mantle liner 321 data).
           iv.     Obtaining base reference data (i.e., data representing the surface of
           the concave 319 and mantle 316 without the liners in place (i.e., bare
           concave and mantle)).

                                             -70
           v.      Determining the thickness of concave and mantle liners 322, 321 at
           various locations.
   The step of scanning the crusher cavity 317 is performed in order to obtain point
   cloud data representing the surface of the concave and mantle liners 322, 321. In
 5 this step, a laser scanner 331 is deployed or held at a series of positions in the
   vicinity above the inlet 329 or within the crusher cavity 317 for performing a series
   of scans of the crusher cavity 317 using any suitable deployment systems.
   The deployment system         preferably utilises one of the following existing
   infrastructures associated with conventional crushers in order to minimise costs:
10         - Fixed Plant Overhead Crane, which is typically already installed at large
           size primary crushers
           - Fixed Plant Rock Breaker Arm, which is typically already installed
           adjacent the ROM bin for large size primary crushers
           - Mobile Deployment Infrastructure
15 For conciseness, the process will only be described with respect to the
   deployment system 330 depicted in Figure 27. However, it will be apparent to a
   person skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to such a
   deployment system.
   A series of scans is required when the mantle 316 is in place in order to achieve a
20 substantially complete field of view of the surface of the concave and mantle liners
   322, 321.
   Figure 29 illustrates a series of six positions at which the scanner 331 is held by
   the deployment system 330 to perform a series of scans of the crusher cavity 317.
   With the deployment system 330 of Figure 28, the scanner 331 is held at positions
25 above the inlet 329 such that a line of sight of the scanner 331 is able to project to
   surfaces of the concave and mantle liners 22, 21 at the location of the CSS 329a
   or the OSS 329b. As the ore is crushed near the bottom of the concave 319 and

                                               -71
   mantle 316 it is important to ensure that the scanner 331 is positioned to be able
   to capture the liner surface condition of this critical area.
   In order to identify possible scanner positions, a graphical projection of line of
   sight coming from the very bottom edge of the concave/mantle 319, 316 through
 5 the crusher cavity 317 may be used. Identifying scanner positions in this way
   enables line of sight to the bottom of the crusher 308 so as to provide data
   collection of this critical area. In addition, it allows identification of set up positions
   that do not require isolation or shutdown procedures to get access to.
   To obtain the series of individual scans of the crusher cavity 317, the scanner 331
10 may first be positioned above the inlet 329 near a spider arm at location P1 as
   shown in Figure 29 to perform a scan. After a scan is performed at location P1,
   the scanner 331 may then be moved to a position above the opening substantially
   in between the two spider arms at location P2 as shown in Figure 29 to perform
   another scan. After a scan is performed at location P2, the scanner 331 may then
15 be moved to a position above the opening near the other spider arm at location
   P3 as shown in Figure 29 to perform yet another scan. The scanner 331 is
   subsequently moved to locations P4, P5 and P6 as shown in Figure 29 for
   performing further scans at each of those locations.
   The raw point cloud data of each of the scans is collected by the data acquisition
20 means and stored in the storage means to be processed.
   As a series of individual scans are collected, it is necessary to combine the
   individual scans together by registration in order to form a complete or continuous
   three-dimensional point cloud data of the surface of the concave and mantle liners
   322, 321.
25 According to embodiments of the present invention, the complete three
   dimensional point cloud data can be obtained via the processing means by a
   number of ways. For example, an absolute positioning system such as an Inertial
   Measurement Unit (IMU) or a laser tracking system can be used. Other systems
   for absolute co-ordinate positioning apparent to a person skilled in the art may

                                              -72
   also be applied. Alternatively, a surface to surface registration of the individual
   scans can be performed.
   In the case of an IMU, the IMU is attached to the scanner 331 or mounted in the
   vicinity of the scanner 331        in a fixed spaced relationship thereto. The IMU
 5 includes   inertial sensors such as angular rate sensor (e.g.,            gyros) and
   acceleration sensors (e.g., accelerometers). Based on these sensors, the IMU
   can be used for tracking the position of the scanner 331         relative to a known
   reference point (e.g., a survey marker). For example, the reference point may be
   configured to have a co-ordinate system (X-axis, Y-axis and Z axis) such as (0, 0,
10 0). Therefore, since the IMU continuously tracks the change in position of the
   scanner relative to the known reference point, the co-ordinate system of the
   scanner at each of locations P1 to P6 would be known and can be recorded. That
   is, the IMU provides absolute position referencing with each scan. Thus, the co
   ordinate system of the point cloud data obtained by each scan would be known.
15 As a result, the point cloud data associated with each scan can be directly
   registered by the processing means to form a complete three-dimensional point
   cloud data of the surface of concave and mantle liners 322, 321.
   An advantage associated with the IMU method is that it eliminates the time
   consuming task of scan registration using traditional techniques by allowing for
20 direct registration of the individual scans.
   A laser tracking system can similarly be used to track the co-ordinate system of
   the scanner 331 at each of locations P1 to P6 such that the co-ordinate system of
   the point cloud data associated with each scan would also be known.
   If an absolute positioning system is not used to track the position of the scanner
25 331 relative to a known reference point, it will be necessary to perform a surface
   to surface registration of the individual scans in order to form a complete or
   continuous three-dimensional point cloud data of the surface of the concave and
   mantle liners 322, 321. In this process, a number of fixed structures (preferably
   non-wearing) of the crusher are identified and used such that adjacent scans with
30 overlapping fields of view can be joined and oriented in the crusher coordinate
   system by matching the identified fixed structures. For example, as shown in

                                           -73
   Figure 30, under the spider rim, there are normally bolt holes 390 spaced apart
   along the upper periphery of the concave 319 for receiving bolts to secure the
   spider rim to the concave 319. Accordingly, once the spider rim is removed, the
   bolt holes 390 may serve as fixed structures to be used when registering adjacent
 5 scans. For example, each scans at locations P1 to P6 will capture a portion of the
   surface of the concave and mantle liners 22, 21 as well as the bolt holes 390
   along the upper periphery of the concave 319. Therefore, when registering the
   adjacent scans performed at locations P1 and P2, the same bolt holes 390 in the
   overlapping fields of view are identified in the adjacent scans and are matched
10 when joining the adjacent scans together. The other adjacent scans are registered
   in the same manner. Once all of the adjacent scans are registered, a complete or
   continuous three-dimensional point cloud data of the surface of the mantle and
   concave liners is obtained.
   Alternatively, instead of indentifying fixed structures of the crusher, dedicated
15 fixed structures can be installed at suitable locations on or in the vicinity of the
   crusher 308 for referencing purposes in a similar manner as described above.
   The complete three-dimensional point cloud data of the surface of mantle and
   concave liners 321, 322 is edited by the data editing means in order to filter
   unwanted points (e.g., spurious points from outside of the crusher cavity 317) and
20 segment the point cloud data into mantle liner 321 data and concave liner 322
   data. In an embodiment, the filtering and segmenting steps are performed
   manually by a person using the data editing means. In another embodiment, the
   filtering and segmenting steps can be automated as apparent to a person skilled
   in the art.
25 According to an embodiment of the present invention, a base reference data
   representing the surface of the bare concave 319 and mantle 316 (i.e., base
   reference) is obtained in order to determine the relative displacement of the
   surface of the liners 322, 321 with respect to the base reference. The relative
   displacement of the surface of the liners 322, 321 with respect to the base
30 reference at any one point would therefore represent the thickness of the liner at
   that point.

                                             -74
   The base reference data may be obtained from a number of techniques according
   to embodiments of the          present invention depending on the surrounding
   circumstances.
   For example, if a CAD model of the crusher is available, the base reference data
 5 can simply be extracted from the CAD data. In this case, the base reference data
   and the point cloud data representing the surface of the mantle and concave
   liners 321, 322 are each reference to their own co-ordinate system. Therefore, in
   order to derive accurate displacement data indicative of the thickness of mantle
   and concave liners 321, 322 at any particular point, the sets of data would need to
10 be correlated. In particular, the point cloud data representing the surface of the
   mantle and concave liners is oriented and transformed into the co-ordinate system
   coinciding with that of the base reference data using the referencing means.
   Alternatively, during a crusher reline, a scan of the surface of the bare mantle and
   concave (i.e., surface of the concave 319 and mantle 316 without the liners 321,
15 322 in place) can be performed to obtain point cloud data representing the surface
   of the bare mantle 316 and concave 319 (or the surface of the back of mantle and
   concave liners). The point cloud data representing the surface of the bare mantle
   316 and concave 319 can be obtained by performing a series of scans about the
   bare mantle 316 and then registering the series of scans in a similar manner as
20 described above.
   Still alternatively, the base reference data representing the bare mantle 316 and
   the concave 319 can be determined by identifying fixed structures with known
   offsets to the surface of the bare mantle 316 or concave 319. For example, as
   shown in Figure 30, the bolt holes 390 on the upper periphery of the concave 319
25 can be used to estimate the surface geometry of the bare concave 319 since the
   bolt holes 90 typically has a known offset to the surface of the bare concave 319.
   If an absolute positioning system, e.g., IMU, is used when scanning the surface of
   the bare mantle 316 and concave 319 (i.e., base reference), the co-ordinate
   system of point cloud data representing the base reference would coincide with
30 the co-ordinate system of the point cloud data representing the mantle and
   concave liners since absolute positing referencing for each scan is used.

                                              -75
   Accordingly, displacement data indicative of the thickness of the mantle and
   concave liners 321, 322 at any one particular point can be obtained by
   determining the relative displacement between the point cloud data representing
   the surface of the mantle and concave liners 321, 322 and the point cloud data
 5 representing the surface of the base reference at any one particular point with the
   point cloud data having the same (or aligned) co-ordinate system.
   If an absolute positioning system is not used when scanning the surface of the
   mantle and concave liners 321, 322 and the surface of the bare mantle 316 and
   concave 319, a line of best fit method can be used to determine their orientations
10 and thus their co-ordinate systems.
   The line of best fit method will now be described with respect to the mantle and
   concave liners 321, 322 as depicted in Figures 31a and 31b. In relation to the
   concave liners 322, the complete or continuous point cloud data representing the
   surface of the concave liners 322 are processed to form rings of data. The rings of
15 data form a plurality of parallel planes spaced apart from each other along the
   height of the concave liners as shown in Figure 31 b. A line of best fit is formed by
   connecting the centre points of each plane across the height of the concave
   liners. The line of best fit would therefore indicate the orientation of the point cloud
   data representing the concave liners and its co-ordinate system can thus be
20 determined. In general, more accurate results can be obtained when more rings
   are projected along the height of the concave liners. For instance, the number of
   rings may range from 5 to 20.
   The line of best fit method can also be used to determine the co-ordinate systems
   of the point cloud data representing the surface of the mantle liners as shown in
25 Figure 31a and the surface of the bare mantle 316 and concave 319 in a similar
   manner.
   In order to obtain accurate displacement data indicative of the thickness of mantle
   and concave liners 321, 322 at any particular point, the sets of data is correlated.
   In particular, the point cloud data representing the surface of the mantle and
30 concave liners 321, 322 is oriented and transformed into the co-ordinate system
   coinciding with that of the base reference data using the referencing mean.

                                             -76
   The displacement data can be processed to produce a number of condition
   monitoring deliverables.
   The software viewer may also provide statistical information for each individual
   survey of the crusher 308 and can be analysed by a user to monitor the condition
 5 of the crusher liners such as to identify localised wear zones.
   In addition, a wear rate of the mantle and concave liners 321, 322 at various
   sections can also be determined by comparing the thickness of the liners 321, 322
   over time or over a number of surveys.
   The wear rates can be used to produce a number of monitoring deliverables such
10 as identification of localised wear hot spots and reline forecasting.
   According to an embodiment of the present invention, the present system and
   method for monitoring the wear condition of a crusher can also monitor
   asymmetry wear in the mantle and concave liners 321, 322 by utilising the wear
   data obtained over time. The knowledge of asymmetry wear issues on concave
15 and mantle liners can for example be utilised in the design of concave and mantle
   liner 321, 322.
   Preferably, the crusher 308 is operated at a substantially steady or constant target
   OSS and CSS in order to achieve stable product size for feeding downstream
   processing. As the concave and mantle liners 322, 321 wear, the OSS and CSS
20 can be maintained substantially constant by raising the mantle 316 vertically
   upwards with respect to the concave 319. According to an embodiment of the
   invention, the CSS and/or OSS are tracked or monitored so that the mantle 316
   can be raised upwards when the CSS and/or OSS exceeds a certain or
   predetermined limit. The CSS and OSS can be determined by calculating the
25 distance between the concave and mantle liners 322, 321 in the vicinity of the
   bottom of the crusher 308 where the ores are crushed prior to leaving the crusher
   308. The distance can be calculated based on the point cloud data representing
   the surface of the mantle liners 321 and the point cloud data representing the
   surface of the concave liners 322.

                                            -77
   In an embodiment of the present invention, the steps in data processing to
   produce condition monitoring deliverables for a series of two or more surveys
   during the same liner life cycle are generally described below and may include
   one or more of the following:
 5
   1.)    Calculation of throughput tonnage based wear information at any location
   of the concave liners 322 from the three-dimensional thickness data;
   2.)    Calculation of throughput tonnage based wear information at any location
   of the mantle liners 321 from the three-dimensional thickness data;
10 3.)    Calculation of reline forecast information for the mantle and concave liners
   321, 322 based on wear tracking and reline limit definitions;
   4.)    Calculation of head replacement forecast information based on 1.) and 2.),
   target CSS and OSS as defined by maximum feed size target, head maximum
   possible vertical travel, and defined forecast loss of throughput caused by 1.) and
15 2.);
   5.)    Calculation of volumes at associated vertical and circumferential crusher
   cavity sections and determining choking or non-choking condition for each
   volumetric section;
   6.)    Calculation of % of crusher power/pressure limit reached per volumetric
20 section of 5.);
   7.)    Calculation of vertical mantle adjustment settings per 12 hour site shift
   based on 4.), 5.) and 6.);
   8.)    Calculation of nip point angles at regular vertical crusher cavity positions at
   CSS;
25 9.)    Calculation of annulus area at regular vertical intervals and tracking of
   minimum annulus area vertical position;

                                              -78
   10.)     Determination of localized wear hot spots;
   11.)    Calculation of circumferential wear asymmetry in concave liners;
   12.)    Calculation of circumferential wear asymmetry in mantle liners.
   TRANSFERMAPPER
 5 A third application of the invention is directed towards a system and method
   specifically adapted for mapping and measuring the thickness of liners in transfer
   chutes.
   Owing to the geometric differences between mills, crushers and transfer chutes
   the measuring of a surface in a transfer chute to determine its difference from a
10 base reference requires several further considerations. For instance:
   1)      laser scanner measurement field of view is limited to line of sight, therefore
   multiple storey transfer chutes typically require several scans from different
   access hatch set up positions in order to collect continuous coverage at consistent
   point cloud resolutions;
15 2)      as a consequence of 1), scan registration may be used, i.e. the joining of
   individual scans to create the continuous 3D liner surface; this can be achieved
   either by using fixed, non-wearing structures (e.g. area below head pulleys) in the
   field of view of a sufficient number of liner scans, or by matching the overlap of
   liner surfaces between scans. Alternatively each scan can be treated individually
20 rather than registered and joined to create a continuous surface.            If individual
   scans are not to be registered together then each individual scan must undergo
   each step of the process so as to provide the end result.
   3)      As for any absolute liner wear monitoring application using laser scanning,
   thickness registration, i.e. the correlation of the visible liner surface to the back of
25 liner is required; this can be achieved by using fixed, non-wearing structures in the
   field of view of a scan with known offsets to the back of liner, by establishing a
   precisely known absolute scanner position and orientation for every liner scan, by
   using UTG thickness measurements as control points, or by correlating existing

                                               -79
   transfer features in the scanner field of view to dimensioned CAD plans.
   Alternatively, thickness registration can be done with respect to unworn liner
   plates located around the periphery of the region lined with liners.
   4)      A universal scanner deployment mechanism that removes the need for
 5 operator access to the transfer cavity and that protects the scanner is used.
   Referring to figures 32 to 35 the laser scanner is used in conjunction with a
   transfer chute 423 generally having side walls constructed to form a chute to
   direct material from one place to another. Each wall upon which material impacts
   is typically lined with a plurality of liners 425. These liners may cover the entire
10 wall but typically only cover the area of the wall which will be affected. The liners
   typically extend so that those at the periphery of the lined region experience no or
   negligible wear.
   Transfer chutes typically have several access or manholes to provide access to
   the interior of the transfer chute. In order to obtain a scan of the interior of the
15 transfer chute a scanner may be inserted through the man hole.             To assist in
   doing so the scanner may be located on a deployment device. The deployment
   device has a similar effect as the deployment device used with respect to
   scanning a crusher.
   The scanner incorporates scanner positioning means to precisely position and
20 automatically orientate the laser scanner in an incremental manner about the fixed
   reference point, performing each of its scans to obtain coverage of the
   surrounding environment. The scanner in the present embodiment performs a
   series sweeps to obtain point cloud data in respect of the surface of the inner
   liners of the transfer chute. During this sweep, the point cloud data would be
25 sequentially acquired and accumulated by the data acquisition means.
   The database of the computer is designed to store base reference data in respect
   of a base reference specified for the particular transfer chute being scanned. This
   base reference in the present embodiment is the outer, non-worn liners located at
   the periphery of the lined portion of the inner wall of the transfer chute.

                                            -80
   The transfer chute liners define a transfer chute liner surface which over time has
   areas of wear.        These areas become distally spaced relative to the base
   reference. This displacement, shown with respect to one point of the point cloud
   of data for which point cloud data is acquired from the laser scanner, corresponds
 5 to the thickness of the liner segment at that point relative to the position of the
   outer, non-worn liners. This position may be obtained from the base reference
   data stored in the database.
   The base reference data may be obtained from a CAD model of the lined portion
   of the transfer chute or from a scanning of the lined portion when first installed.
10 The base reference data is characterised by certain key reference data
   comprising critical transfer chute parameters that describe the geometry of the
   base reference of the transfer chute.
   In the present embodiment, the database is maintained with critical transfer chute
   parameters for each transfer chute, which will vary from transfer chute to transfer
15 chute depending upon the particular transfer chute shape and configuration. The
   co-ordinate system of the displacement data obtained by the laser scanner is
   referenced to the reference point of the laser scanner, whereas the base
   reference data for the transfer chute is referenced to its own co-ordinate system
   related to the geometry of the transfer chute. Therefore in order to derive accurate
20 displacement data indicative of the transfer chute liner segment thickness at any
   particular point, the two sets of data need to be correlated. Accordingly, an
   important aspect of the processing software is to provide for this correlation.
   The segments of the point cloud representing the sections of the transfer chute to
   be monitored correspond to different geometrically described sections and are
25 thus separated at this stage so that they can be processed individually. As shown
   in figure 32, the transfer chute has been broken down in to several segments, with
   figures 33 to 35 providing a visual analysis of one of these segments,
   The referencing means provides for the orientation of the point cloud data relative
   to the critical transfer chute parameters and the transformation of the point cloud
30 of data into the co-ordinate system coinciding with the base reference data.

                                               -81
   The referencing means, as a first step, includes an estimating process to estimate
   a critical parameter from the point cloud data and a transformation process to
   transform the data so that this critical parameter and that of the CAD model
   reference data, mathematically coincide. Liner thickness can then be computed,
 5 as a second step, for each point by the displacement processing means.
      An important advantage of the present embodiment is that the transfer chute
   dataset ultimately obtained can be used to yield a comprehensive statistical and
   graphical report to the user. The system includes mapping means to provide the
   user with a number of different formats for reporting the results of the scan on
10 completion of the thickness computations. An example of this is shown in figure
   35 which represents the thickness of the segment shaded in figure 32.
   Registration of various scans may be completed by the follwoing method:
   Master scan-point file and back-of-liner creation
   1.      Select best scan at each hatch as "master" survey
15 2.      Align raw scan cloud to nominal coordinate axes
   -Panel matrix; or
   -Geometric object
   3.      Segment aligned scan cloud into individual wall segments
   - Each segment must be in the coordinate system as defined after the initial
20 alignment
   4.      Split individual wall segments into wearing and non-wearing sections
   -Non-wearing sections are assumed to be at the edges of the walls
   -Logic for splitting is to be defined, e.g. outer boundary is one panel/tile in from the
   edge, inner boundary is one panel/tile in from the outer boundary

                                               -82
   Note: this logic to prevent "sliding" in the cloud-to-cloud registration as the edge of
   a section heavily biases the solution
   Fit plane to entire segment and create "difference map" to plane as a means to
   better determine areas of wear and non-wear
 5 5.      Fit plane to non-wearing section of individual wall segment
   Verticality can only be assumed if alignment of raw scan cloud in Step 2 is vertical
   -verticality of plane-fit to nominally vertical wall segments (i.e. check "c" parameter
   of plane normal
   -equal normal parameters for parallel walls
10 -calculate angle to adjacent planes and check against CAD
   6.      Translate plane back along it's normal by the nominal new liner thickness
   7.      Expand planar boundaries of plane-fit past the extents of the scan points
   8.      Pick vertices on the plane that define the shape of the liners
   This is the back-of-liner definition for input into TMCV
15 This Intersect planes with planes to create the nominal transfer shell. Select
   vertices at the extents of the planes to define the BOL
   9.      Export - BOL Vertices, Wall points
   Registration of "slave" surveys (all other surveys)
   1.      Segment raw point-cloud into individual wall segments
20 -Can be done in FARO Scene
   -Each segment must be in the scanner's coordinate system

                                              -83
   2.       Split individual wall segments into wearing and non-wearing sections
   Apply same logic as established in the master scan file
   3.       Align non-wearing section to master file
   All points, wearing and non-wearing, are to be aligned
 5 4.       3-point initial alignment
   5.       Cloud-to-cloud registration
   -Filter for noise, e.g. dark and bright scan points, spurious points, etc
   -"spatially" sample point cloud to reduce influence of dense-points areas
   -Normals of plane-fit to slave scan points should equal plane fit to master scan
10 points
   -Create difference map if plane-fit is not equal to check for areas of wear
   6.       Export aligned scan points
   The present embodiment has several advantages over prior art systems used for
15 inspecting liner wear in mills, crushers and transfer chutes. Some of these
   advantages are as follows:
   1. Unlike visual inspection and ultrasonic thickness gauging, the invention does
        not require physical human access into mill, crusher or transfer chute, thus
        saving shutdown time and avoiding the complexity of safety issues.
20 2. Data collection takes less than 5 minutes, which is much faster than any
        alternative method of inspection.
   3. Several million point samples of liner thickness are computed, rather than a

                                            -84
       few dozen.
   4. The relative location of all point samples is known precisely. The other
       methods do not deliver this information.
   5. The individual precision of measurements is empirically more accurate than
 5     other techniques.
   6. A 3D digital wear model is computed directly from the point cloud data, as are
       quality control indicators and associated statistical analysis. No other method
       provides such detailed scientifically rigorous information about the thickness of
       a liner.
10 7. liner wear is visualised by a series of colour-coded maps for the central shell
       and the feed and discharge ends. The other methods cannot provide this type
       of visualisation.
   It should be appreciated that the scope of the present invention is not limited to
   the specific embodiment described herein. Importantly, the invention is not limited
15 to mapping and measuring thickness of liners in mills, crushers, transfer chutes or
   other material handling systems. Indeed, other embodiments may be envisaged
   using the same principles applied to mapping and/or measuring                 surface
   displacement relative to a reference in other applications such as vessels and
   structures particularly common to industrial installations. Similarly, displacement
20 can also be in relation to displacement caused by the accumulation of deposits
   thereon, such as on ship hulls, not just wear.
   Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a skilled addressee are
   deemed to be within the scope of the present invention
25

                                            -85
   The Claims Defining the Invention are as Follows
   1. A system arranged for measuring the displacement of a surface in a material
      handling system such as a crusher, transfer chute or other material handling
      structure relative to a base reference in a material handling system such as a
 5    crusher,   transfer    chute or other     material handling  structure,  thereof
      comprising:
                 scanning means to generate point cloud data of the surface relative
                 to a reference point to define a three-dimensional image of the
                 surface;
10               storage means to store base reference data in respect of the base
                 reference; and
                 processing means to process the point cloud data and the base
                 reference data to determine the relative displacement of the surface
                 with respect to the base reference;
15        wherein the processing means comprises:
                 (i) a referencing means to orientate the point cloud data relative to
                 key reference data of the base surface and transforming the point
                 cloud data and the base reference data into a common co-ordinate
                 system, and
20               (ii) displacement processing means to calculate the displacement
                 between the surface and the base reference using both sets of data
                 in the co-ordinate system.
   2.   The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the base reference may be a
        further surface of the material handling system.
25 3.   The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the base reference is the surface
        before it undergoes displacement.

                                           -86
   4. A system as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the reference point is the
      origin of the scanner means.
   5. A system as claimed in claim 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein the key reference data is
      in the form of a set of critical parameters that describe the geometry of the
 5    base reference and critical parameters that describe the relative boundaries
      of the surface.
   6.  A system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the base reference is a
      substantially cylindrical shell with opposing ends and the critical parameters
      are, or are a combination of:
10        e  the location of the central longitudinal axis of the cylindrical shell;
          " the radius of the cylindrical shell; and
          " the length of the cylindrical portion of the cylindrical shell.
   7. A system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the at least one critical parameter of
      the key reference data of the base reference is the longitudinal axis of the
15    cylindrical shell.
   8. A system as claimed claim 6 or 7, wherein the opposing ends are
      substantially conical, and the critical parameters include:
          e the cone angles of the opposing ends, relative to the axis of the
            cylindrical shell; and
20        e the distance between the apexes of the opposing ends.
   9. A system as claimed in claim 5 wherein the base reference is provided by an
      outer wall shell of a crusher, the crusher comprising a concave and a mantle,
      whereby the critical parameters of the crusher include:
      * the location of the central longitudinal axis of the concave of the crusher;

                                            -87
         the length and position of the concave shell
   10. A system as claimed in claim 5 wherein the base reference is provided by an
       inner wall shell of a crusher, whereby the critical parameters include one or
       more of the following:
 5         e the location of the central longitudinal axis of the mantle of the crusher;
           e the eccentricity angle of the crusher mantle centre axis;
           e the pivot point of the adjustable mantle height setting from the
             operating system mantle origin
   11. A system as claimed in claim 5 wherein the base reference is provided by at
10     least one inner surface of the shell of a transfer chute, whereby the critical
       parameters include one or more of the following:
           " the location and orientation of the wall(s) of the shell;
           " lined and unlined shell inner surface and surface normal vector;
           " dimensions of the liner.
15 12.  A system as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 11, wherein the surface
       comprises a plurality of segments and the critical parameters of the point
       cloud data include the distance of the corner points of each segment to one
       end of the shell, or separation lines between adjacent segments.
   13. A system as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 12, wherein the critical
20     parameters include the distance between a prescribed reference surface and
       one or other of the ends of the shell.
   14. A system as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 12, wherein the critical
       parameters include the distance between the prescribed reference surface
       and the inner liner surface

                                            -88
   15.   A system as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 14, wherein the scanning
          means includes a scanner positioning means to precisely position and
          orientate the laser scanner in a prescribed manner incrementally about the
          origin of the scanning means.
 5 16.   A system as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 15, including data acquisition
          means to acquire and accumulate the point cloud data at consecutive
          incremental orientations of the scanning means about the origin of the
          scanning means to generate a three-dimensional measure of the point cloud
          data in respect of substantially the entire three-dimensional extent of the
10        surface.
   17.   A system as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 16, wherein the origin of the
          scanning means is placed at several points to acquire point cloud data at
         those multiple points.
   18.A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
15     processing means includes a data editing means to filter spurious point data
       from the accumulated point cloud data before operation of the referencing
       means and the displacement processing means.
   19.A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
       processing means further includes a partitioning means to partition the point
20     cloud data into discrete segments corresponding to different geometrical
       sections of the surface before operation of the referencing means and the
       displacement processing means.
   20. A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
       referencing means includes a process to locate at least one of the critical
25     parameters of the key reference data within the point cloud data, and a
       transformation process to transform the point cloud data into the co-ordinate
       system coinciding with the base reference data so that the location of the one
       critical parameter of the point cloud data mathematically coincides with the
       location of this same critical parameter in the base reference data.

                                            -89
   21.A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the process is an estimating process
      to estimate the location of at least one of the critical parameters of the key
      reference data from the point cloud data.
   22.A system as claimed in claim 21 when dependent on 4, wherein the process
 5    estimates the axis of the cylindrical shell from the point cloud data, and a
      transformation process to transform the point cloud data, so that the estimated
      axis and the central longitudinal axis of the cylindrical shell mathematically
      coincide.
   23.A system as claimed in claim 21 when dependent on 9 wherein the process
10    estimates the axis of the crusher concave from the point cloud data, and a
      transformation process to transform the point cloud data, so that the position
      and placement along the respective estimated and actual axes mathematically
      coincide.
   24.A system as claimed in claim 21 when dependent on 10 wherein the process
15    estimates the axis of the crusher mantle from the point cloud data, and a
      transformation process to transform the point cloud data, so that the position
      and placement along the respective estimated and actual axes mathematically
      coincide.
   25.A system as claimed in claim 21 when dependent on 11 wherein the process
20    estimates the inner surface of the shell of the transfer chute from non-wearing
      components of the point cloud data, and a transformation process to transform
      the point cloud data, so that the estimated and actual inner surface of the shell
      of the transfer chute mathematically coincide.
   26.A system as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 25 wherein the transformation
25    process transforms each point from the co-ordinate system of the scanning
      means into the coordinate system of the base reference
   27.A system as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 26 when dependent on claim
      11, wherein the referencing means invokes the transformation process to
      transform each point of the point cloud datafrom the co-ordinate system for the

                                            -90
      scanning means (x,y,z) into the co-ordinate system of the base reference
      (X,Y,Z) using     the  estimated    transformation   parameters   as   previously
      determined.
   28.A system as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 27 when dependent on claim
 5     12, wherein the referencing means invokes the transformation process to
      transform each pointfor the reference surface from the co-ordinate system for
      the scanning means (x,y,z) into the co-ordinate system of the base reference
      (X,Y,Z) using     the  estimated    transformation   parameters   as   previously
      determined.
10 29.A system as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 28 wherein the referencing
      means invokes the estimating process to estimate the critical parameters for
      the    displacement   processing     means    to  subsequently   determine    the
      displacement of the surface relative to the base surface.
   30.A system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the displacement of the surface
15    relative to the base surface at the opposing ends of the cylindrical shell is
      determined.
   31.A system as claimed in claim 29 wherein the estimating process utilises known
      parameters common to the base reference and the surface.
   32.A system as claimed in claim 31 wherein the known parameters are bolt holes,
20    or gaps in the surface exposing the shell.
   33. A system as claimed in claim 29 wherein the estimating process uses a gap
      point two parallel planes method adopting a simultaneous least squares fit
      methodology, whereby the loci of the corner points are used to estimate the
      parameters of the parallel, best-fit planes in order to determine the distance to
25    the base reference.
   34.A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the referencing means includes an
      orientating process to orientate said point cloud data relative to said key
      reference data and to transform the point cloud data into a co-ordinate system
      coinciding with the base reference data.

                                             -91
   35.A system as claimed in claim 21 wherein the estimating process uses a
      temporarily or permanently affixed planar surface or other simple shape as a
      referencing method, whereby data points thereon at the time of acquisition that
      are   positioned    by said    positioning means    and   transformed   by   said
 5    transformation process are used to estimate the parameters to determine the
      placement or orientation to the base reference.
   36.A system as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the displacement
      processing means determines the displacement of the surface relative to the
      base reference at an observation point.
10 37.A system as claimed in claim 36 wherein the observation point is substantially
      orthogonal to both the surface and the base reference
   38.A system as claimed in claim 37 wherein the displacement processing means
      calculates the distance from the observation point to the surface, the
      difference of this distance and the distance between the observation point and
15    the base reference being the displacement of the surface relative to the base
      reference
   39.A system as claimed in claim 38 wherein the displacement processing means:
             calculates the radius being the orthogonal distance from the axis of the
             shell to the observation point;
20           and determines the displacement of the surface relative to the base
             reference at the specific observation point along the shell as the
             difference between the initial approximate distance of the base reference
             and the calculated distance.
   40.A system as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the referencing
25    means includes a positioning process to position the point cloud data
      segments that were discretely partitioned and stored relative to the base
      reference.

                                              -92
   41.A system as claimed in claim 40 wherein the positioning process positions the
      point cloud data segments that were discretely partitioned and stored for the
      opposing ends of the cylindrical shell, relative to the base reference.
   42.A system as claimed in claim 41 wherein the positioning process:
 5            (i) extracts data from the point cloud data to determine the location of
              known bolt holes (A), the length of the segments (B), the distance
              between an adjacent segment and the end of the shell (C), and the
              longitudinal extent of the shell (D); and
              (ii) translates the data along the longitudinal axis by:
10                    a.   determining the location of known bolt holes within one plane
                      of visible segments around the shell;
                      b. determining the the position of the base reference
   43.A system as claimed in claim 41, wherein the positioning process:
              (i) extracts data pertaining to the distance of the corner points from the
15            point cloud data to determine the location of the corner points (A), the
              length of the segments (B), the gap between an adjacent segment and
              the one opposing end of the shell (C), and the longitudinal extent of the
              shell (D); and
              (ii) translates the data along the longitudinal axis by:
20                    a.   determining the location of all corners within one vertical
                      plane of visible segments all around the shell;
                      b. determining     the  location  of gaps between       all corners
                      opposing those in a. within one vertical plane of visible segments
                      all around the shell;

                                              -93
                     c.   determining the halfway plane between planes though points
                     extracted under a. and b.;
                     d.   determining the position of the base reference at the one
                     opposing end according to the formula: % A + B + C.
 5 44.A system as claimed in claim 43 wherein the positioning process comprise the
      step of determining the position of the base reference at the other opposing
      end by adding D to the outcome of the formula at d.
   45.A system as claimed in claim 43, wherein the positioning process:
           (i)   1.       translates the data along the longitudinal axis or spatially by:
10               a. determining the location on non-wearing areas of liners;
                 b. determining and/or applying the thickness of said non-wearing
                 liners.
   46.A system as claimed in claim 13 or 14, wherein the critical parameters include
      the distance between a prescribed reference surface and one of the opposing
15    ends of the shell, and the positioning process:
           (i)   extracts data pertaining to the distance between the prescribed
           reference surface and the one of the opposing ends of the shell (A'), and
           the longitudinal extent of the shell (D') from the base reference data; and
           (ii)  translates the data along the longitudinal axis by:
20                 a.     determining the position of the base reference at the one
                   opposing end by adding A' to the location of the reference surface
                   in the point cloud data; and
                   b.     determining the position of the base reference at the other
                   opposing end by adding D to the outcome of a. above.

                                             -94
   47.The system according to any one of the preceding claims whereby in crushers
      the system is used to maintain an optimal Closed Side Setting (CSS) and/or
      Open Side Setting (OSS) by prediticing when the mantle requires to be raised
      or repalced.
 5 48.The system according to claim 47 wherein the system provides data to
      facilitate the timing of adjustments of the mantle in order to maintain CSS
      and/or OSS of the crusher.
   49.The system according to claim 47 or 48 wherein the scanning means is
      positioned so as to scan the location of the CSS and/or OSS of the crusher.
10 50.The system according to claim 47, 48 or 49 wherein the CSS and/or OSS can
      be determined by calculating the distance between the concave and mantle
      liners, the distance may be calculated based on the point cloud data
      representing the surface of the mantle and the point cloud data representing
      the surface of the concave liners.
15 51.A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the base
      reference is a base surface which may be in the form of the surface of the
      unworn liner, the back of liner surface, or another surface of the structure.
   52.A system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, including processing
      modules to provide for statistical analysis and quality control of the
20    accumulated cloud point data, the processing modules comprising one or
      more of the following metrics:
              (i) covariance matrix of estimated parameters;
              (ii) data snooping methods to test and identify least-squares residuals
              and subsequently remove outlier points;
25            (iii) root mean square (RMS) and maximum residual;
              (iv) estimated variance factor.

                                             -95
   53.A system for measuring the displacement of a surface in a material handling
      system such as a crusher, transfer chute or other material handling structure
      relative to a base reference in a material handling system such as a crusher,
      transfer chute or other material handling structure , wherein differences in
 5    measurements of displacement over a time period represents change between
      the base reference and the surface, the system comprising:
       scanning means to generate point cloud data in respect of a distal surface
       relative to a reference point to define a three-dimensional image of the
       surface;
10     storage means to store base reference data of the base reference relative to
       the surface; and
       processing means to process said point cloud data and the base reference
       data to determine the displacement;
       characterised by the processing means including:
15     (iii)a referencing means to orientate the point cloud data relative to key
               reference data of the base reference and transform the point cloud data
               and base reference data into a common co-ordinate system; and
       (iv)    displacement processing means to calculate the displacement using
               both sets of data in the co-ordinate system.
20 54.A method for measuring the displacement of a surface relative to a base
      reference thereof, comprising:
          generating point cloud data between a reference point and a surface
          disposed distally from the reference point to define a three dimensional
          image of the surface;
25        determining the location and direction of key reference parameters of the
          object defined by the three dimensional image from the point cloud data;

                                            -96
        obtaining base reference data in a prescribed co-ordinate system in respect
        of a base reference relative to the surface; and
        processing the point cloud data and the base reference data, orientating the
        point cloud data relative to the key reference parameters of defined by the
 5      base reference data and transforming the point cloud data into a co-ordinate
        system coinciding with the base reference data.
   55.A method      as claimed    in claim 54, including determining the relative
      displacement of the surface defined by the point cloud data with respect to the
      base reference in the co-ordinate system.
10 56.A system for mapping the displacement of a surface relative to a base
      reference, thereof comprising:
           data processing means to obtain point cloud data defining a surface in a
           co-ordinate system coinciding with a base reference and to generate
           displacement data in respect of the displacement between each point of
15         the point cloud and a related point of the base reference;
           comparison    means to compare the displacement              data against a
           prescribed threshold; and
           display to graphically display the result of the comparison.
   57.A system as claimed in claim 56, wherein the display includes a first format for
20    graphically displaying the point cloud data or the displacement data in a 3D
      view.
   58.A system as claimed in claim 56 or 57, wherein the display includes data
      manipulation means for unwrapping the point cloud data or the displacement
      data onto a 2D plane and a second format for graphically displaying same.
25 59.A system as claimed in claim 58, wherein the second format includes a
      contour map      having different colours or shades representing different
      magnitudes of displacement relative to the prescribed threshold.

                                           -97
   60.A system as claimed in any one of claims 56 to 59, wherein the display
      includes a third format for calculating a histogram in respect of the
      displacement data.
   61.A system as claimed in any one of claims 56 to 60, wherein the display
 5    includes a fourth format for calculating a cumulative distribution histogram in
      respect of the displacement data.
   62.A method for mapping the displacement of a surface relative to a base
      reference, thereof comprising:
           obtaining point cloud data defining a surface in a co-ordinate system
10         coinciding with a base reference;
           generating displacement data in respect of the displacement between
           each point of the point cloud and a related point of the base reference;
           comparing the displacement data against a prescribed threshold; and
           displaying the result of the comparison.
15 63.A method as claimed in claim 62, including generating cross-sections of
      displacement data.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
