                             Abstract
          A method may be provided for supplying a desired
substance treatment within a sealed enclosure containing at
least one product.  The method may include regulating gas and
pressure levels within the enclosure through a conduit to create
an atmosphere with a first predetermined gas level and/or
pressure level within the enclosure, wherein the gas and/or
pressure levels are controlled by a controller programmed with
one or more target parameters, set-points and/or operating
instructions to provide a substance treatment in combination
with the desired atmosphere within the sealed enclosure;  and
metering and/or adding a predetermined quantity of at least one
substance into the enclosure through the conduit, wherein the
addition of the substance is  controlled by the controller in
accordance with the target parameters,  set-points and/or
operating instructions, wherein the at least one substance
coats, is absorbed into, or infuses into the at least one
product.
                               -68-

WO 2014/146094     1/ 22 PCT/US2014/031054
      FIG. 1
     PRIOR ART
         50
                                 40
               10
                                       12
               J0
      FIG,2
     PRIOR ART
               904
                                        12
                                      32

         SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING A REGULATED ATMOSPHERE FOR
                            PACKAGING PERISHABLE GOODS
                    Cross Reference To Related Applications
)001]      This  application is   a PCT based off U.S.  Patent Application
     No.  13/839,460,  filed March 15,   2013, which is a continuation
     in-part of U.S.   Patent Application No.    13/602,988,  filed Sept.
     4, 2012,   which is a continuation of U.S.    Patent Application No.
     11/932,611,   filed on Oct. 31,   2007, now U.S.  Pat. No.  8,256,190,
     issued Sept.   4, 2012, which is a continuation-in-part     of U.S.
     Patent Application No.     10/336,962, filed on Jan. 6, 2003, now
     U.S.  Pat. No.  7,644,560, issued Jan.   12,  2010, which is a
     continuation-in-part of U.S.     Patent Application No.   10/000,211,
     filed on Oct.   22,  2001,  now U.S. Pat. No.  6,685,012,  issued Feb.
     3, 2004,   which is a divisional of U.S.    Patent Application No.
     09/393,047,   filed Sep. 9, 1999, now U.S.    Pat. No.  6,305,148,
     granted Oct. 23,    2001.  Each of the foregoing U.S. patent
     applications claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) from U.S.
     Provisional Application No.     60/099,728,  filed Sep. 10,  1998,
     entitled "System and Method Providing a Regulated Atmosphere for
     Packaging Perishable Goods."      Each of the foregoing U.S. patent
     applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its
     entirety.
                              Field Of The Invention
0002]      Embodiments of the present invention relate to a method and
     apparatus for creating a sealed enclosure around perishable or
     atmosphere-sensitive products for transport or storage. More
     particularly, embodiments of the invention relate to a storage
     method and system for enclosing goods being transported, on a
     pallet, for example, providing a desired environment or
     atmosphere within the enclosure, and optionally monitoring and
     controlling the environment or atmosphere within the enclosure
                                        -1-

    during transport. Embodiments of the present invention further
     relate to methods and systems for the introduction of
     sanitizing, flavoring, preserving, and other substances into
     sealed enclosures containing products such as perishable food
    products.
                        Background Of The Invention
D002A]    Any discussion of documents,  acts, materials, devices,
     articles or the like which has been included in this
     specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context
     for the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission
     that any or all of these matters form part of the prior art base
     or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the
    present invention as it existed in Australia or elsewhere before
     the priority date of this application.
D003]     Perishable or environmentally sensitive goods risk damage
     from numerous sources such as wind, dirt, heat, insects, etc.
     during transportation. Various forms of packaging have been used
     to minimize damage or decay of such goods. For example, goods
     are often secured to a pallet to facilitate the transport of
     such goods and to protect the goods from damage caused by
     shifting during transport. In order to further protect and
    preserve the goods during transport, it is well known to cover
     the goods so as to form an enclosure around the goods. Known
     techniques to create an enclosure include heat shrinking plastic
     around the goods which has been placed on a pallet or placing a
    plastic bag around the goods on a pallet. By forming such an
     enclosure, referred to as a "sealed enclosure" herein, the goods
     can be protected from environmental factors  such as moisture or
     other contaminants. The more airtight the sealed enclosure, the
    better the sealed enclosure protects the goods from external
     contaminants.
                                    -2-

3004]     FIG. 1 shows a well-known apparatus 50  for storing goods
    during transport. The apparatus 50   includes a base cap 10
    positioned over a pallet 30.  After the base cap is positioned on
     the pallet 30, the base cap 10 is usually held in place by the
    goods 40  that are stacked on top of the base cap 10.  The base
     cap 10 further includes side flaps or walls 12 which extend
    upwardly from the peripheral edges of the base cap 10,   for
     surrounding and holding the goods 40 within their boundaries.
    Typically, the goods 40  are then further secured to the base cap
                                    -2a-

     10 and the pallet 30 with staples    or some type of tape that
     wraps around the goods 40 and the base cap 10.
)005]     The base cap 10 forms a barrier between the goods 40 and
     the pallet 30  and is typically made from some type of plastic,
     relatively impermeable material shaped to fit over the pallet
     30. The base cap  10 seals and protects the bottom surface of the
     goods 40  from contamination and also provides a surface to which
     the goods 40 can be secured. The base cap    10 can be any shape or
     material, but is preferably sized to cover the pallet 30 and
     preferably made of a relatively water and gas impermeable
     material to form a seal barrier at the underside of the goods
     40. Goods 40 are stacked on the base cap 10 which is placed on
     top of the pallet 30.  The goods 40   can be a variety of types or
     sizes and preferably are in boxes or containers. While three
     layers of boxed goods 40  are shown, there can be more or less
     layers. The combination of stacked goods 40    on the base cap and
     the pallet 30,  as illustrated in FIG.   1, is referred to herein
     as the loaded pallet 50.
)006]     FIG. 2 illustrates  a well-known method of creating a sealed
     enclosure around the loaded pallet 50 of FIG. 1. A bag-like
     covering 90 is placed around the goods 40 and secured to the
     base cap 10 of the loaded pallet 50,    thereby forming a sealed
     enclosure around the goods 40.  Preferably, the bag covering 90
     is adhered to the base cap  10 and the pallet 30 with tape,    or
     other well-known technique, to create an air-tight seal.
0007]     Prior art enclosure systems,    such as those discussed above,
     suffer from many disadvantages. Using a bag covering 90 to form
     the enclosure, as shown in FIG. 2,    is disadvantageous in that it
     is difficult to seal the bottom end of the cover 90 with the
     base cap 10.  The bag covering 90   is often larger than the base
     cap 10,  so sealing the bag covering 90 to the base cap 10
     requires folding and creasing of the bag covering 90.    The
                                     -3-

     folding and creasing of the bag covering 90 to fit the base cap
     10 prevents a smooth contact between the inside surface of the
    bag covering 90 and outside edges of the base cap 10.
     Furthermore, the folds and creases form possible gaps  or
     channels for gases to bypass  the seal, thus, preventing an
     airtight enclosure.
)0081     Likewise, when wrapping plastic around palletized goods, it
     is difficult to completely seal the enclosure, especially at the
     top and bottom sides. The wrapping must curve around the corners
     and edges of goods 40,  leading to potential gaps or creases in
     the wrapping. As previously discussed, the gaps and creases are
    undesirable in that they provide possible channels for air to
    escape or enter the sealed enclosure.
)009]     After the goods 40 have been loaded onto the pallet 30  and
     sealed by some method, such as by covering 90 and base cap 10 as
    described above, the goods 40   can be further protected and
    preserved by providing a modified atmosphere inside the
    enclosure surrounding the goods 40.   For example, it is well
     known to inject gases such as nitrogen and carbon dioxide within
     the enclosure in order to deter deterioration of the goods, for
    example, by the growth of organisms that may contribute to the
    natural deterioration of produce. Other mixtures of gases can
    help maintain the goods 40 if held at an appropriate temperature
     and humidity.
0010]     Good sealed enclosures are especially important in these
    modified air systems.   If the sealed enclosure leaks, the
    beneficial gases may escape. Furthermore, a change in the
     composition of gases in the enclosure may damage the goods. For
    example,  an excessive amount of CO, in the enclosure may cause
     food to discolor and to change taste.
0011]     The predominant present technique for introducing the
    modified atmosphere into the sealed enclosure is   to inject the
                                     -4-

     gas mixture through a needle-tipped hose. The needle-tipped hose
     is inserted through the covering of a sealed enclosure   (such as
     bag covering 90 in FIG. 2).  The needle-tipped hose is then taped
     to the covering and a desired gas mixture is  injected through
     the hose into the sealed enclosure. The process ends by removal
     of the needle-tipped hose from the enclosure and re-sealing of
     the resulting hole in the covering with tape or other adhesive.
)012]     This present system for introducing the modified atmosphere
     into the sealed enclosure is disadvantageous. The steps of
     manually piercing the enclosure to insert the needle hose and
     resealing the resulting hole are labor extensive, adding cost
     and delays to the shipping process. The process of piercing and
     resealing the enclosure is also undesirable in that it may
     create a potential leak in the enclosure. The tape or adhesive
     may not seal properly, creating leaks  in the sealed enclosure.
)013]     Another disadvantage of the present enclosed pallet
     transport systems  is that they do not allow the user to monitor
     and adjust the atmosphere within the sealed enclosure during
     storage or transport. A  typical result of this shortcoming is
     that the atmosphere deteriorates during storage or transport.
     For example, respiration to produce will accelerate the ripening
     and aging of produce during transport and will change the
     quality of the gases in the enclosure. As a result, the goods
     may deteriorate during transport, especially if delayed by
     unforeseen circumstances.
0014]     Furthermore, the transporter cannot adjust the atmosphere
     to accommodate a good with varying needs. For example, the
     ripening of fruits  is generally undesirable during transport and
     storage but may be desirable as the fruits near their final
     markets. It is well known that certain combinations of gases
     prevent the ripening of fruits while others encourage the fruits
     to ripen. Thus it is desirable to have the enclosure containing
                                     -5-

     the former gas mixture during most of transport, but changing to
     the latter gas mixture as the fruits near their final markets.
)015]     It  is also known to be beneficial to provide a controlled
     environment around the goods 49 during transportation and
     storage. For example, the goods 40  can be transported in
     refrigerated trucks,  ships, or railcars. Within the cargo
     holding area of specialized transport vehicles, the temperature
     or atmospheric contents around the goods can be adjusted and
     controlled during transport. However, transportation of goods by
     these environment controlling vehicles has   several problems.
     Foremost, most transport vehicles do not have the ability to
     control the atmospheric environment of the cargo holding area.
     For example, most trucks have the capacity to only maintain the
     cool temperature of their cargo. Environmental control requires
     additional specialized equipment and this specialized equipment
     significantly raises the costs for the transport vehicle, ship
     or storage facility. As  a result, there are not enough
     environment controlling vehicles to transport goods.
     Transportation of a larger range of goods in controlled
     environments could provide significant benefits to the consumer
     by reducing loss of goods during transport.
J016]     A further disadvantage of current vehicles having a
     combined temperature and controlled atmosphere enclosure is    the
     dehydration of products during storage   (due to evaporation
     through cooling).  Much energy is required to cool a large
     enclosure. The energy consumption raises fuel and transportation
     costs and the negative affects of product dehydration and weight
     loss due  to relative vapor pressure on unprotected produce may
     be significant.
0017]     Thus,  in view of the deficiencies and problems associated
     with prior art methods and systems  for storing and transporting
     perishable or environment-sensitive goods, an improved method
                                     -6-

    and system of transporting such goods is needed. A method and
    system for more easily and efficiently creating a sealed
    enclosure around the perishable goods is desired. What is
    further needed is a method and system which can provide, monitor
    and/or maintain a controlled environment within the sealed
    enclosure of a standard pallet, bin or other shipping unit
    without the use of expensive, specialized vehicles having
    atmosphere-controlled cargo holds, such as ships, specialized
    sea containers, and refrigerated trucks,  for example.
)018]    Additionally, improved methods and systems  for effectively
    and efficiently introducing substances such as sanitizing,
    flavoring, and preserving substances into sealed enclosures
    containing products such as perishable products are needed.
                         Summary Of The Invention
J018A]   According to a first aspect of the invention there is
    provided a method for providing a desired atmosphere within a
    sealed enclosure, wherein at least one product is disposed
    within the sealed enclosure, the method comprising:  evacuating
    air from the sealed enclosure through at least one conduit to
    create a first predetermined pressure within the sealed
    enclosure, wherein the evacuating is controlled by a controller
    programmed with target parameters, set-points and/or operating
    instructions to provide a desired atmosphere within the sealed
    enclosure; injecting gas into the sealed enclosure through the
    at least one conduit to create an atmosphere with a second
    predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure, wherein the
    injecting of gas is controlled by the controller in accordance
    with the target parameters,  set-points and/or operating
    instructions; regulating gas  levels and/or pressure levels
    within the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit to
    regulate the atmosphere to a predetermined gas level and/or a
                                    -7-

    predetermined pressure level within the sealed enclosure,
    wherein the gas levels and/or pressure levels are controlled by
    the controller programmed with one or more target parameters,
    set-points and/or operating instructions to provide a substance
    treatment in combination with the desired atmosphere within the
    sealed enclosure; and applying a predetermined quantity of at
    least one substance in addition to the atmosphere in the sealed
    enclosure to the at least one product, wherein the applying of
    the at least one substance is controlled by the controller in
    accordance with the target parameters,     set-points and/or
    operating instructions and the at least one substance coats, is
    absorbed into, or infuses into the at least one product.
D018B]   According to another aspect of the invention there is
    provided a method for providing a desired atmosphere within a
    sealed enclosure, wherein at least one product is disposed
    within the sealed enclosure, the method comprising:     evacuating
    air from the sealed enclosure through at least one conduit to
    create a first predetermined pressure within the sealed
    enclosure, wherein the evacuating is controlled by a controller
    programmed with target parameters, set-points and/or operating
    instructions to provide a desired atmosphere within the sealed
    enclosure; injecting a gas into the sealed enclosure through the
    at least one conduit to create an atmosphere with a second
    predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure, wherein the
    injecting of the gas is controlled by the controller in
    accordance with the target parameters,     set-points and/or
    operating instructions; regulating gas     levels and/or pressure
    levels within the sealed enclosure through the at least one
    conduit to regulate the atmosphere to a predetermined gas     level
    and/or a predetermined pressure level within the sealed
    enclosure, wherein the gas levels     and/or pressure levels are
    controlled by the controller programmed with one or more target
                                   - 7a -

parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions to provide
a substance treatment in combination with the desired atmosphere
within the sealed enclosure; applying a predetermined quantity
of at least one substance in addition to the gas     to the at least
one product, wherein the applying of the at least one substance
is controlled by the controller in accordance with the target
parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions;     treating
one or more packaging materials with the at least one substance
prior to the at least one product being disposed in the sealed
enclosure, wherein the one or more packaging materials are used
as a part of a consumer unit, a master shipping unit or to form
the sealed enclosure; and activating the one or more packaging
materials treated with the at least one substance using
pressure, electrical or electrostatic charge, light, or sound
waves.
           [0018C]  According to another aspect of the invention
there is provided a method for providing a desired substance
treatment within a sealed enclosure either before, during, or
after creating a modified or controlled atmosphere, wherein at
least one product is disposed within the sealed enclosure, the
method comprising: regulating gas     levels and/or pressure levels
within the sealed enclosure through at least one conduit to
create an atmosphere with a first predetermined gas level and/or
a first predetermined pressure level within the sealed
enclosure, wherein the gas levels     and/or pressure levels are
controlled by a controller programmed with one or more target
parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions to provide
a substance treatment in combination with the desired atmosphere
within the sealed enclosure; and metering and/or adding a
predetermined quantity of at least one substance in addition to
the gas into the sealed enclosure through the at least one
conduit, wherein the addition of the substance is     controlled by
                               - 7b -

     the controller in accordance with the target parameters, set
    points and/or operating instructions, wherein the at least one
     substance coats, is absorbed into, or infuses into the at least
     one product.
D019]     Embodiment of the present invention alleviate or ameliorate
     at least one of the disadvantages of known apparatus and methods
     for transporting perishable goods, or provide a useful
     alternative thereto, by providing an apparatus and method for
     creating a sealed enclosure around perishable goods stacked on a
    pallet, bin, or storage unit and further providing a method and
     apparatus for establishing and maintaining a protective
     atmosphere within the sealed pallet, bin or storage unit
     enclosure.
D020]     In one embodiment, a method for supplying a desired
     substance treatment within a sealed enclosure either before,
     during, or after creating a modified or controlled atmosphere,
    wherein at least one product is disposed within the sealed
     enclosure may be provided.  The method includes regulating gas
     levels and/or pressure levels within the sealed enclosure
     through at least one conduit to create an atmosphere with a
     first predetermined gas level and/or a first predetermined
    pressure level within the sealed enclosure, wherein the gas
     levels and/or pressure levels are controlled by a controller
                                    - 7c -

    programmed with one or more target parameters, set-points and/or
    operating instructions to provide a substance treatment in
    combination with the desired atmosphere within the sealed
    enclosure; and metering and/or adding a predetermined quantity
    of at least one substance into the sealed enclosure through the
    at least one conduit, wherein the addition of the substance is
    controlled by the controller in accordance with the target
    parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions, wherein
    the at least one substance coats,   is absorbed into, or infuses
    into the at least one product.
)021]    A method for providing a desired atmosphere within a sealed
    enclosure may be provided.   At least one product may be disposed
    within the sealed enclosure.   The method may include:  evacuating
    air from the sealed enclosure through at least one conduit to
    create a first predetermined pressure within the sealed
    enclosure and applying a predetermined quantity of at least one
    substance to the at least one product.    The evacuating and
    applying may be controlled by a controller programmed with
    target parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions to
    provide a desired atmosphere within the sealed enclosure.    The
    method may include monitoring the atmosphere inside the sealed
    enclosure by sampling the atmosphere and comparing at least one
    sampled parameter to the target parameters,   set-points and/or
    operating instructions and maintaining and/or adjusting the
    atmosphere inside the sealed enclosure based on the monitoring,
    wherein the maintaining and/or adjusting of the atmosphere is
    controlled by the controller in accordance with target
    parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions.    In
    another embodiment, the at least one substance may include at
    least one of a foam, a gel, an encapsulated material, a gas, a
    powder, a micro- or nano- particle, a fluidized compound, a
    liquid, or a vaporized liquid, a food grade acid, a mineral
                                    -8-

    salt, a mineral salt solution, a nutritional additive, a
    sweetener, a flavor enhancer, a sanitizing substance, a
    flavoring substance, a preservative substance, a food additive
    substance, a coating substance, a coloring substance, a
    nutritional substance, a sealing substance, a mineral substance,
    a vitamin substance, an essence and/or essential  oil substance,
    or a biological substance, a probiotic, or a substance
    containing at least one of ozone, chlorine, hydrogen peroxide,
    nitrous oxide, peracetic acid, nitrite, nitrate compound,
    iodine, benzoate, propionate, nisin, sulfate, sorbate, thymol.
    In one embodiment, the method may further include treating one
    or more packaging materials with the at least one substance
    prior to the at least one product being disposed in the sealed
    enclosure, wherein the one or more packaging materials are used
    as a part of a consumer unit, a master shipping unit or to form
    the sealed enclosure;  and activating the one or more packaging
    materials treated with the at least one substance using
    pressure, electrical or electrostatic charge, light, or sound
    waves.
)022]    In another embodiment, each of the methods and systems,
    described above, further includes a sensor, for measuring and/or
    monitoring the atmosphere or pressure within the enclosure, and
    a controller  (e.g., a programmable logic controller) for
    controlling the amount of desired gases introduced into the
    sealed enclosure. The amount of select gas present in,  or
    introduced into, the enclosure is monitored and/or measured by
    the sensor which is  in turn coupled to the controller, or other
    well-known processor. By receiving data from the sensor, the
    controller may either open or close the valve to either start or
    stop the inflow of gas  from the gas tanks into the enclosure.
    Optionally, the controller may be disconnected from the sealed
    enclosure after an initial desired atmosphere is  achieved, or
                                    -9-

    the controller can remain attached to the system during storage
    or transportation so as to continually monitor and maintain the
    desired atmosphere throughout the duration of the trip or
    storage period.
)023]    A further aspect of an embodiment of the present
    application provides for a method for introducing at least one
    substance, comprising positioning at least one product within a
    sealed enclosure, the sealed enclosure having at least one
    conduit through which one of gas or fluid may flow into or out
    of the sealed enclosure, evacuating air from the sealed
    enclosure through the at least one conduit to create a
    predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure, and
    injecting a predetermined quantity of the at least one substance
    into the sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit.
)024]    A further aspect of an embodiment of the present
    application provides for a method for introducing at least one
    substance, comprising positioning at least one product within a
    sealed enclosure, the sealed enclosure having at least one
    conduit through which one of gas or fluid may flow into or out
    of the sealed enclosure, evacuating air from the sealed
    enclosure until a first value of pressure is  created within the
    sealed enclosure, maintaining the first value of pressure within
    the sealed enclosure for a first predetermined period of time,
    introducing air into the sealed enclosure until a second value
    of pressure is  created within the sealed enclosure, the air
    containing a predetermined quantity of the at least one
    substance, maintaining the second value of pressure within the
    sealed enclosure for a second predetermined period of time,
    evacuating the air from the sealed enclosure until a third value
    of pressure is  created within the sealed enclosure, and
    maintaining the third value of pressure within the sealed
    enclosure for a third predetermined period of time.
                                   -10-

D024A]   Throughout this specification, the word "comprise", or
    variations thereof such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
    understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer
    or step, or group of elements integers or steps, but not the
    exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of
    elements, integers or steps.
                                  -10a-

                      Brief Description Of The Drawings
)025]     FIG. 1 illustrates   a prior art method and system of
     packaging goods on a pallet by placing a base cap between the
     goods and the pallet.
)026]     FIG. 2 illustrates   a prior art sealed enclosure created by
     a covering positioned over the goods and attached to the base
     cap of FIG.  1.
)027]     FIG. 3 illustrates   a perspective view of a sealed enclosure
     formed by a base cap, a bag-like covering and at least one valve
     coupled to the base cap, in accordance with one embodiment of
     the invention. Optionally, at least one valve may be
     incorporated into the covering in addition to,      or alternatively
     to, at least one valve coupled to the base cap.
)028]     FIG. 4 illustrates   a perspective view of a sealed enclosure
     formed by a base cap, a top cap and a side wrapping which
     adheres to the base and top caps      in accordance with one
     embodiment of the invention.
)029]     FIG. 5 illustrates   a side view of the base cap of FIGS. 3
     and 4 having tabs  in accordance with one embodiment of the
     invention.
)030]     FIG. 6 illustrates   a bottom view of the base cap with tabs
     of FIG.  5, taken from a perspective indicated by line 6-6 of
     that figure.
0031]     FIG. 7 illustrates   a side view of the base cap with tabs of
     FIG. 5 positioned on a pallet.
0032]     FIG. 8 illustrates   a bottom view of the base cap of FIG. 7
     positioned on a pallet, taken from a perspective      indicated by
     line 8-8  of that figure.
0033]     FIG. 9 illustrates   a system for applying side wrapping
     around goods positioned between a base cap and a top cap,      in
     accordance with one embodiment of the invention.
                                      -11-

)034]     FIG. 10 illustrates another system for applying wrapping to
     the palletized goods, in accordance with another embodiment of
     the invention.
)035]     FIG. 11 illustrates a sensor, a pressure switch, a
     controller and a gas tank coupled to a scaled enclosure, in
     accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Optionally, a
     computer is coupled to the controller.
)036]     FIG. 12 illustrates multiple sealed enclosures  (or other
     commercial transport or storage units) being monitored and/or
     controlled by multiple sensors, at least one gas tank and at
     least one controller, in accordance with one embodiment of the
     invention.
)037]     FIG. 13 illustrates a block diagram of some of the
     components of a controller in accordance with one embodiment of
     the invention.
)038]     FIG. 14 is a flowchart illustrating some steps of a
     modified atmosphere process in accordance with one embodiment of
     the invention.
)039]     FIG. 15 is a flowchart illustrating some steps of a
     controlled atmosphere process which first checks for oxygen
     content, then for carbon dioxide content in accordance with one
     embodiment of the invention.
0040]     FIG. 16 is a flowchart illustrating some steps of a
     controlled atmosphere process which simultaneously checks oxygen
     and carbon dioxide content in accordance with one embodiment of
     the invention.
0041]     FIG. 17 is a flowchart of a method used to create and
     maintain a sealed enclosure with a top and base cap and a side
     wrapping in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.
0042]     FIG. 18 is a flowchart of a method used to create and
     maintain a scaled enclosure with a bag cover and a base cap in
     accordance with one embodiment of the invention.
                                    -12-

)043]     FIG. 19 is a diagram illustrating manual stacking process.
)044]     FIG. 20 is a diagram illustrating manual wrapping process.
)045]     FIG. 21 illustrates the pallet that is  attached to a gas
     controller.
)046]     FIG. 22 illustrates a semi-automatic process that packages
     products on a pallet and inserts desired atmosphere inside the
     pallet.
)047]     FIGS. 23a and 23b illustrate the lift table with fingers.
)048]     FIG. 24 illustrates an example of gassing station.
)049]     FIG. 25 illustrates automated procedure for wrapping and
     inserting desired amount of gas into a pallet before the pallet
     is ready to be shipped.
)050]     FIG. 26 illustrates a wrap station 800  in one embodiment.
 051]     FIGS. 27a and 27b illustrate a lift table with fingers  for
     holding a pallet in position.
)052]     FIGS. 28a and 28b illustrate wrapping process for one or
     more products stacked on a pallet in one embodiment.
)053]     FIG. 29a illustrates a pallet having a wrap and bagging.
)054]     FIG. 29b illustrates a pallet 1104 having wrappings.
)055]     FIG. 30 illustrates a wrapped pallet in a manifold system
     being connected to injection hoses.
J0561     FIG. 31 illustrates a pipe portion of a manifold having a
     pressure relief valve.
0057]     FIG. 32a illustrates a multi-zone controller 1402.
00581     FIG. 32b illustrates a single zone controller 1404.
00591     FIGS. 33a-d illustrate a plurality of wrapped pallets
     connected to a plurality of manifolds.
00601     FIG. 34 shows a sensor, a pressure switch, a controller, an
     optional computer, and a gas  source coupled to a rigid container
     in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention.
                            Detailed Description
                                    - 13 -

)061]     The invention is described in detail below with reference
    to the figures, wherein like elements are referred to with like
    numerals  throughout. In accordance with the present invention, a
    method and apparatus for creating a sealed enclosure around
    perishable or atmosphere-sensitive products for storage and
    transport  (e.g., palletized goods),    introducing a desired
    atmosphere into the sealed enclosure, and optionally maintaining
    a controlled atmosphere within the enclosure during
    transportation of the goods, is provided.
)062]     FIG. 3 illustrates a side perspective view of one
    embodiment of the invention that     includes a base cap 10
    positioned on top of a pallet 30.     As shown in FIG. 3, the pallet
    30 typically includes lifters  or pegs 32, which raise the bottom
    surface of the pallet 30  off the ground. This keeps the goods 40
    away from contaminants that may be on the ground and further
    facilitates machinery, such as a forklift, to lift the pallet
    off the ground for transportation. The base cap 10 is     typically
    rectangular or square in shape, to conform to the size and shape
    of a typical pallet, and includes four side flaps or walls 12
    which extend upwardly from the four side edges of the
    rectangular-shaped base cap 10.    The goods 40  are placed on top
    of the base cap 10  and at least a bottom portion of the goods 40
    are surrounded by and retained within the four side walls     12 of
    the base cap 10.  The sealed pallet assembly further includes a
    bag-like covering 90 which is placed over and around the goods
    40 so as to form a sealed enclosure around the goods 40 in
    conjunction with the base cap 10.     The covering 90 may be
    attached at its bottom edges to the base cap 10 by means of
    glue,  tape or any technique that    is known in the art to create,
    as near as possible, an airtight seal between the covering 90
    and the base cap  10. Therefore, the goods 40    are enclosed in a
                                    -14-

     sealed environment created by the covering 90 and the base cap
     10.
)0631     FIG. 3 further illustrates a gas      intake/outtake valve 16,
     coupled to a side wall 12 of the base cap       10, for allowing an
     appropriate coupling device attached to the end of a hose, for
     example, to mate with the valve     16.  In this way, the valve 16
     can receive a desired gas directed through the hose into the
     sealed enclosure or chamber. Additionally, the valve 16 may
     expel unwanted gas  out of the sealed enclosure or allow samples
     of gas to travel to a sensor 140      (FIG. 11)  for testing and
     monitoring purposes. The sensor 140 is described in further
     detail below with respect to FIG. 11.
)064]     Alternatively, or additionally, the sealed enclosure of the
     present invention may include a gas intake/outtake valve       18
     coupled to the bag-like covering 90.      In one embodiment, the
     valve 18 may be integrated into the covering 90 by any means
     known in the art.  Similar to valve 16 described above, the valve
     18 allows an appropriate coupling device to mate with valve 18
     thereby allowing a desired gas, or combination of gases, to flow
     into and out of the sealed enclosure formed by the covering 90
     and the base cap  10.
J0651     Each of the valves 16 and 18 may be any one of a number of
     well-known valves which can be opened and closed, either
     manually or automatically, to either start or stop the flow of
     gases or liquids into or out of the sealed enclosure. For
     example, the valves 16 and 18 may be threaded metal or plastic
     pipe ends which can be "Closed" with a threaded cap and "opened"
     by mating with a threaded end of a hose. As       another example, the
     valves 16 and 18 may be of the type that connects to the end of
     a hose used to provide carbonation from a carbonation tank to a
     soda dispensing machine found in most restaurants. In one
                                     -15   -

     embodiment, valves 16 and 18  are model no. PLC-12 "quick
     connector" valves, manufactured by Colder Products Company.
)0661     The base cap 10 functions as a barrier between the bottom
     surface of the goods 40  and the pallet 30 and functions to
     protect the goods 40 from contaminants and/or moisture present
     on the pallet or the ground. The base cap  10 can be made from
     any material such as coated paper, plastic, metal, wood, or
     coated fabric but is preferably relatively gas and liquid
     impermeable in order to prevent gases and/or moisture from
     entering or leaving the sealed enclosure from the bottom.
)067]     The base cap 10 is preferably sized and shaped to conform
     to the size and shape of the pallet 30.  In one embodiment, the
     base cap 10 is rectangular-shaped to substantially conform to
     the rectangular shape of the pallet 30  on which it rests. The
     base cap 10 further includes four side flaps or walls 12 which
     each extend upwardly from a respective edge of the base cap 10
     to cover and retain within their boundaries at least a bottom
     portion of the goods 40.  The base cap 10 can be optionally
     shaped as needed for protection and transportation of any shape
     and/or size of goods 40  or pallet 30.
)0681     The covering 90 may be made from any desired material
     depending on the function desired to be performed. In one
     embodiment, the covering 90 may be Semi-permeable to prevent
     contaminants from entering the enclosure but to allow some gases
     to escape from the sealed enclosure to prevent the build up of
     undesirable gases. In another embodiment, the covering 90 may be
     gas impermeable so as to prevent desired gases from escaping
     from the internal enclosure.
00691     In another embodiment, covering 90 is  sealed to the base
     cap 10 with adhesive stretch wrap or a heat-shrink wrap which is
     well-known in the industry. The stretch wrap or heat-shrink wrap
     encircles the goods 40 and the base cap 10.  After heat is
                                     -16-

     applied, the heat-shrink wrap reduces in size to tightly seal
     and secure the goods 40  and form a seal with the base cap 10.
)070]     Optionally, the covering 90 may also have insulating
     qualities. For example,  "bubble wrapping" is   a well-known
     technology that is  an effective insulating material. The
     insulating covering may have other forms such as fiberglass mesh
     or other high tech fiber, various    foam materials, plastic gels,
     cardboard liners, encasing bags, etc. The particular composition
     and form of the insulating covering is not    limited in the
     present invention. The  insulating covering may be used alone to
     cover the palletized good or may be layered with other
     coverings. The insulating covering can be applied like any other
     covering and helps preserve the goods 40 by preventing contact
     with external contaminates and/or changes in the atmosphere
     within the sealed enclosure.
3071]     Furthermore, the covering 90 may form an anti-pest barrier.
     The covering 90 may be treated with a chemical treatment such as
     an insecticide or an insect repellant. Alternatively, the
     covering 90 may have a screen-like quality to prevent pests from
     entering the sealed enclosure. The anti-insect covering may be
     used by itself or in combination with other coverings and/or
     wrappings.
0072]     Referring to FIG.  4, one embodiment of the invention
     includes a base cap 10 positioned on top of a pallet 30 and
     goods 40 placed on top of the base cap 10.    As discussed with
     reference to FIG.  3, in one embodiment, the base cap 10 is
     rectangular shaped to conform to the typical shape of a pallet
     and includes four side walls 12 which extend upwardly from the
     edges of the rectangular-shaped base cap 10    to surround and
     retain within their boundaries at least a bottom portion of the
     goods 40 after they have been placed on top of, and into, the
     base cap 10.
                                     -17-

)073]     A top cap 20  is then placed over the upper surface of the
     goods 40  to create a top seal. To complete the enclosure, a side
     wrapping 80 is  applied around the side surfaces of the goods.
     The side wrapping 80 overlaps the base cap 10 and the top cap 20
     to create airtight seals at both intersections. Two methods of
     applying the side wrapping 80 around the top and base caps, 20
     and 10,  respectively, and the goods 40,     are described in further
     detail below with reference to FIGS.      9 and 10.
)074]     The  top cap 20 functions as a barrier placed over the top
     surface of the goods 40.  The  top cap 20    can be made from any
     material such as coated paper, plastic, metal, wood, or coated
     fabric but is preferably relatively gas and liquid impermeable
     in order to prevent gases and/or moisture from entering or
     leaving the sealed enclosure from the top. The top cap 20      is
     preferably shaped to cover the top surface of the upper-most
     goods 40.  As shown in FIG. 4,  in one embodiment, the top cap 20
     is rectangular-shaped and includes four side flaps or walls 22
     that extend downwardly from each of the four edges of the top
     cap 20 to cover at least a top portion of goods 40.      The top cap
     20 can be optionally shaped as needed for protection and
     transportation of any shape and/or size of goods. The
     combination of a top cap 20 on a loaded pallet 50      is referred to
     herein as a pallet assembly.
0075]     FIG. 4 further illustrates the wrapping 80 after it has
     been applied around caps 10 and 20      and over goods 40. The
     wrapping 80 overlaps the goods 40,      the base cap 10, and the top
     cap 20 to create a sealed enclosure. The wrapping 80 may be made
     from any desired material depending on the function desired to
     be performed. In one embodiment, the wrapping 80 may be semi
     permeable to prevent contaminants from entering the enclosure
     but to allow some gases to escape from the sealed enclosure to
     prevent the build up of undesirable gases. In another
                                      - 18 -

     embodiment, the wrapping 80 may be gas    impermeable so as to
     prevent desired gases from escaping from the internal enclosure.
     Also, the products contained inside the pallet enclosure may be
     packaged in permeable or semi-permeable films to allow these
     products  to be treated with  (or exposed) to sanitizing or
     ripening control agents,  and/or to allow for these pre-packaged
     products  to achieve a different modified atmosphere than the
     "master" pallet atmosphere after the pallet enclosure is
     removed.
)076]     In another embodiment, wrapping 80 is    sealed with adhesive
     stretch wrap or a heat-shrink wrap which is well-known in the
     industry. The  stretch wrap or heat-shrink wrap encircles the
     goods 40,  base cap 10 and top cap 20.   After heat is applied, the
     heat-shrink wrap reduces in size to tightly seal and secure the
     goods 40 between the base cap and the top cap 20.
)077]     Optionally, the wrapping 80 may also have insulating
     qualities.  For example, "bubble wrapping" is   a well-known
     technology that is  an effective insulating material. The
     wrapping may have other forms such as fiberglass mesh or other
     high tech fiber, various foam materials, plastic gels,    cardboard
     liners, encasing bags, etc. The particular composition and form
     of the insulating wrapping is not    limited in the present
     invention. The insulating wrapping may be used alone to cover
     the palletized good or may be layered with other wrappings or
     coverings. The insulating wrapping can be applied like any other
     wrapping and helps preserve the goods 40 by preventing contact
     with external  contaminants and/or changes in the atmosphere
     within the sealed enclosure.
0078]     Furthermore, the wrapping 80 may form an anti-pest barrier.
     The wrapping 80 may be treated with a chemical treatment such as
     an insecticide or an insect repellant. Alternatively, the
     wrapping 80 may have a screen-like quality to prevent pests from
                                     -19-

     entering the sealed enclosure. The anti-insect wrapping may be
     used by itself or in combination with other wrappings.
)079]     In the present invention, the base cap 10 optionally
     includes tabs 14 sized to fit between slats typically found on
     the pallet 30.  FIG. 5 illustrates   a perspective  side view of the
     base cap 10 having tabs 14 which help secure the base cap 10 to
     the pallet 30 by preventing the base cap 10     from moving or
     sliding around on the pallet 30.   FIG.  6 illustrates a bottom
     view of the base cap 10  of FIG. 5,   taken from a perspective
     along lines  6-6 of FIG. 5. In the embodiment shown, the base cap
     10 includes four tabs  14 which extend outwardly from the bottom
     surface of the base cap 10.  FIG.  7 illustrates how tabs 14   fit
     into the slats of pallet 30 to horizontally lock base cap 10 in
     position with respect to the pallet 30.    The  tabs 14 can be any
     size or material and are preferably integrally constructed to
     the base cap. As illustrated in FIG. 7, when the base cap 10 is
     positioned on top of the pallet 30,    tabs 14 extend downwardly
     from the bottom surface of the base cap 10 and protrude into
     slats 34  (FIG. 8) of the pallet 30   so as to secure the base cap
     10 to the pallet 30.  FIG. 5 shows a bottom perspective view of
     FIG. 7 taken along lines 8-8  of that figure. The pallet includes
     legs 32, also known as lifters 32,    and three slats 34.  In the
     embodiment illustrated in FIG. 8,    the tabs  14 of the base cap  10
     fit into the external corner regions of the two exterior slats
     to lock the base cap 10  into place with the pallet 30.    In other
     embodiments, the number and size of tabs 14     and slats 34 may be
     varied depending on desired configurations.
00801     Referring again to FIG. 4, although applying the wrapping
     80 can be accomplished by a series of manually executed steps,
     automated machinery improves the speed and accuracy of the
     system application and provides significant economics     of scale.
     The machine can either circle the wrapping 80 around the pallet
                                     -20-

     assembly or, alternatively, the machine can rotate the pallet
     assembly near a dispenser of wrapping 80.
)081]      FIG. 9 illustrates an automated wrapping system 100 that
     revolves a roll 108  of wrapping 80 around the palletized goods
     40,  base cap 10 and top cap 20.   The revolution of a revolving
     robotic arm 106 dispenses the wrapping 80 around the pallet
     assembly. Where the width of the wrapping 80 is not as tall as
     the pallet assembly, the wrapping needs to spiral so that the
     whole vertical  surface of the side walls of the pallet assembly
     is  sealed. To accomplish this spiraling, a support structure 104
     and the revolving arm 106 preferably combine to create a device
     that vertically transposes the roll 108     of wrapping 80, coupled
     to the robotic arm 106, during application of wrapping 80.       For
     example,  revolving arm 106 may be threaded, causing the arm to
     move up or down during spinning. Alternatively, support 104 may
     have a hydraulic mechanism that raises or lowers     the revolving
     arm 106 while it spins.  Such hydraulic mechanisms are well-known
     in the art. The wrapping machine 100 may spiral the wrapping 80
     automatically or the spiraling may be achieved manually by a
     person operating the machine. Such automatic or manual machines
     are also well-known in the art.
J082]      The wrapping system 100 further includes an optional
     conveyer belt 102 that transports     the palletized goods to and
     from the wrapping location. Otherwise, the pallet assembly may
     be moved to and from the wrapping location by another method
     such as by forklift, for example. The     support 104 holds the
     revolving arm 106 that holds the roll of wrapping 80.     The
     revolving arm 106,  in one embodiment, is coupled to a motor that
     turns the revolving arm 106 around the palletized goods.      In
     another embodiment, the arm 106 can be turned manually.
00831      FIG. 10 shows a wrapping machine 110 that rotates the
     pallet assembly near a wrapping dispenser 114 in accordance with
                                      -21-

    another embodiment of the invention. The wrapping machine 110
    has a rotating platform 112 that  spins the pallet assembly, in a
    direction indicated by arrow 116,   for example, near the
    dispensing arm 114. The pallet assembly can be placed on the
    rotating platform 112 by a forklift, robotic arm or other
    mechanical device. Alternatively, the pallet assembly can be
    formed directly on the platform 112.   The platform may be rotated
    either manually or automatically by a motor.
)084]    As previously discussed, if the width of the wrapping is
    less than the height of the loaded pallet assembly, there is a
    need to vertically transpose the wrapping 80.   Preferably, the
    platform 112 and the dispensing arm 114   combine to form a
    mechanism that vertically moves a roll of wrapping 80,    coupled
    to the dispensing arm 114, relative to the palletized goods 40
    so as to spiral the wrapping 80 around the surfaces of the
    sealed enclosure. For example, dispensing arm 114 may be
    threaded to force the wrapping 80   to rise or fall at a desired
    rate as wrapping 80 is applied.
)0851    After a sealed enclosure has been formed by one of the
    methods described above, the present invention further includes
    a method to establish and, optionally, maintain a modified
    atmosphere within the sealed enclosure during storage or
    transportation of the palletized goods. FIG. 11   illustrates one
    embodiment of a method and system for establishing, and
    optionally maintaining a controlled environment within the
    sealed enclosure. The system includes a sensor 140 which can
    receive samples of gas from the sealed enclosure via a hose 145
    coupled to a valve 130 located on the top cap 20.   The sensor 140
    may be any one of a number of well-known sensors which can sense
    or measure a desired parameter such as,   for example,
    temperature, concentration levels, humidity, pressure, chemical
    composition, etc. After the sensor 140   analyzes a gas sample,
                                   -22-

    for example, it processes the information and converts the
    information into a predetermined data format. This data is       then
    transmitted to a controller 150 for further processing.
)0861    In one embodiment, the controller 150      is a programmable
    logic controller  (PLC) which receives data from the sensor 140
    and thereafter implements some sort of corrective or responsive
    action. As shown in FIG. 11,  the controller 150     is coupled to an
    automated valve 160 which is  in turn coupled to a gas     tank 170.
    When valve 160 is  in an open state, it allows gas from tank 170
    to flow through the hose 180  into the sealed enclosure via a
    second valve 190 coupled to the top cap 20.      The controller 150
    regulates the flow of a desired gas from the gas      tank 170 into
    the sealed enclosure by either opening or closing the valve 160
    in response to data received from the sensor 140.      In alternate
    embodiments, the valve 190 may be of a type capable of being
    opened and closed automatically and the controller may be
    coupled directly to valve 190,   thereby directly controlling the
    operation of valve 190 to regulate the flow of one or more gases
    into the sealed enclosure.
)087]    The system of FIG. 11 further includes a third valve 132,
    coupled to the top cap 20,  for evacuating the internal area
    surrounded by the sealed enclosure. Typically, an evacuation
    process is carried out prior to injection of a desired gas       from
    an external gas source, e.g.,  gas    tank 170,  into the sealed
    enclosure. A pressure switch 135,     coupled to the third valve 132
    measures the atmospheric pressure within the sealed enclosure
    during the evacuation process to ensure that the sealed
    enclosure has been sufficiently evacuated before the pressurized
    flow of gas from the external gas     source can enter the sealed
    enclosure via hose 180 and second valve 190.      The pressure switch
    135 is coupled to the controller 150 and sends a signal to the
    controller 150 once a sufficient vacuum is created by the
                                    -23 -

     evacuation process. Thereafter, the controller 150 can operate
     the automated valve 160   and/or valve   190 to begin the
     pressurized flow of gas,   otherwise referred to herein as
     "injection,"   into the sealed enclosure.
)0881      FIG. 11  further illustrates an optional computer 154 which
     is  linked to the controller 150 via a communications     link 152.
     The  computer 154 may be a standard personal computer which is
     well-known in the art and can be used to program the controller
     150 with target parameters,   set-points and/or operating
     instructions so that the controller implements a desired
     protocol for providing monitoring functions and maintaining a
     desired atmosphere within the sealed enclosure. The computer 152
     may be just one of many computers, or servers, connected
     together in a local area network     (LAN), or a wide area network
      (WAN), or the inter-net, for example. The internet, and the LAN
     and WAN networks are well-known technologies and need not be
     further described herein. By providing connectivity through a
     computer network, such as the internet, for example, users
     located at remote computer terminals have the capability of
     accessing data stored in the controller 150     and/or computer 154,
     sending commands or instructions to the controller 150,      and
     monitoring the atmosphere within the sealed enclosure.
00891      The  communications link 152 can be any type of standard
     link such as,   for example, an ISDN communications line.
     Alternatively, the communications link 152 may be a wireless
     link such as an analog or digital communications link. Such
     analog and digital wireless communication techniques are well
     known in the art. By providing a wireless link 152,     a user
     located at the computer 154 can monitor and send instructions to
     the controller 150 while the rest of the structures illustrated
     in FIG.   11 are being transported to a location away from the
     computer 154.
                                      -24-

)090]      The particular desired atmospheric mixture of gases to be
     monitored by the controller 150,    as described above, depends on
     the needs of the goods. Preferably, a person can program this
     desired mixture into the controller 150.    Achieving the correct
     atmosphere is  important because it can substantially increase
     the longevity of many goods. The proper initial modified
     atmosphere charge, along with the proper film     (barrier or semi
     permeable),  can provide a high degree of atmospheric regulation
     or maintenance capability, as well as atmospheric consistency
     within the enclosed pallet of product(s).    The gaseous mix may
     also include ozone or other sanitizing treatments either
     individually, in sequence, or in various combinations to kill
     pathogens without harming the product. The particular gas
     mixtures are well known and need not be further discussed
     herein.
)091]      Each of the valves 130 and 190 is preferably a part that is
     integrally connected to the top cap 20    to permit access to the
     sealed enclosure. In one embodiment, each of the valves 130      and
     190 is a "quick connector" made of plastic, rubber or another
     similar material which allows hoses to be snapped on and off the
     sealed enclosure. Quick connectors are a well-known technology.
     For example, model PLC-12 quick connectors manufactured by
     Colder Products Company may be used. The valves     130 and 190 may
     be integral parts of the base cap 10 or the top cap 20.
     Alternatively, the valves 130  and 190 may be attached to any
     part of the bag-like covering 90    (FIG. 3) or wrapping 80   (FIG.
     4). In such a system, a hole is cut into the bag 90 or wrapping
     80. Then the valves 130  and 190 are attached to the hole with
     glue,  tape, heating or any other method known in the art.
0092]      The automated valve 160 and the third valve 132 may be any
     one of a number of well-known valves which may be automatically
     controlled and operated by a controller such as a programmable
                                     -25  -

     logic controller. Additionally, any one or all of the valves
     130,  132  and 190 may, alternatively, be coupled to the base cap
     10 rather than the top cap 20.
)093]      FIG. 12  illustrates a top perspective view of multiple
     sealed enclosures in an array being monitored by a single
     controller 150.   For each sealed enclosure, a sensor 140 is
     coupled, via hose 145, to a valve 130 which is in turn coupled
     to the top cap 20 of each sealed enclosure. In the embodiment
     shown in FIG. 12,   each sensor 140   is electronically coupled to
     the controller 150   and periodically transmits data to the
     controller 150   in accordance with a protocol programmed into the
     controller 150.   Based on the data received from each of the
     sensors   140, the controller 150 controls the operation of the
     tank valve 162.   In one embodiment, valve 162   is an automatic
     valve with one input port and multiple output ports which may be
     automatically controlled by command signals     received from the
     controller 150.   The controller 150   can initiate the flow of a
     particular gas, or atmosphere, from the gas     tank 170 into select
     sealed enclosures by opening select output ports of the valve
     162,  thereby allowing the desired atmosphere to flow from the
     gas  tank 170 through a respective hose 180 and into the select
     sealed enclosure via respective valves 190.     It is understood
     that the particular system configuration shown in FIG. 12     is
     only one of many possible configurations in accordance with the
     invention. For example, multiple types     of sensors 140 may be
     utilized to monitor multiple parameters, multiple gas     tanks may
     be employed, and valve 162 may be replaced with multiple
     individual valves each coupled to a respective sealed enclosure.
0094]      FIG. 13  illustrates a block diagram of one embodiment of
     the controller 150.   The controller 150   includes a processor 200
     which is programmed by input device 202 coupled to the processor
     200. The   input device 202 may be an integral part of the
                                      -26-

    controller 150,   as shown in FIG.   13, or alternatively, may be an
    external peripheral device electronically coupled to the
    processor 200.   In one embodiment, the input device 202 may be a
    computer and keyboard which can receive high-level instructions
    from a user, compile such instructions into a desired data
    format, and thereafter program the processor 200. However, any
    well-known method and device may be used to program the
    processor 200. The processor 200 receives information from
    sensor 140 and clock 204 and sends out instructions to valves
    130 and 190   (FIG. 11),  for example. Note that in contrast to the
    embodiment shown in FIG. 11,    in the embodiment shown in FIG. 13,
    the sensor 140   is integrated into the controller 150,   rather
    than being a separate device and the controller 150 is directly
    coupled to the valves    130 and 190 which are coupled to the top
    cap 20  (FIG. 11).  Valve 190 connects to hose 192   from one or
    more gas  tanks allows gas to flow into the sealed enclosure.
    Valve 130  allows gas to flow from the sealed enclosure to the
    sensor 140.  Clock 204 and input device 202 are optional
    components of the controller 150.
)095]    The  logic processor 200 can be any device designed to
    receive and process information. In one embodiment, the
    processor 200 is a standard laptop computer which can be
    programmed, updated, mid/or reprogrammed at will, even via the
    internet. The processor 200 makes choices based upon
    instructions built into the processor or programmed by a human
    operator. The processor 200 receives instructions from the input
    device 202, which may be a standard computer keyboards for
    example. The processor 200 further receives information from the
    sensor 140 and clock 204.    In another embodiment, the processor
    200 may be a type of mass-produced, transistor-based
    microprocessor such as a processor chip. These types of devices
    are well-known and are readily and commercially available.
                                      -27-

)0961      The input device 202 allows the human operator to alter the
     decisions made by the logic processor 200.     In this way the
     controller can be adjusted to meet the needs of different goods.
     As discussed above, the input device 202 may be any one of
     various well-known input devices    such as a computer keyboard, a
     phone line, or a disk drive capable of programming the processor
     200.
)097]      The clock 204 can be any time keeping unit which is well
     known in the art. Commonly, the clock 204 is     a digital timer on
     the logic processor 200 that emits an intermittent time signal.
     Alternatively, the clock 204 may be any time-keeping signal from
     an outside source. The clock 204 permits the processor 200 to
     make decisions based on time.
)0981      The sensor 140 receives gas or atmosphere samples    from the
     sealed enclosure and detects certain qualities.     Such sensors are
     well-known in the art and are readily commercially available.
     The  type of sensor 140 may vary depending on the qualities    to be
     measured. For example, the sensor 140 can contain a thermometer
     to determine air temperature. The     sensor 140 may also contain a
     barometer to test  for air pressure. Preferably, the sensor 140
     contains various chemical detectors to determine the composition
     of the gases introduced into the sealed enclosure. Such sensors
     are well known and, therefore, will not be further described
     here. In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 13,     the sensor 140
     in the controller 150 converts the results to digital signals
     that are sent to the logic processor 200. A memory 206, coupled
     to the processor 200,  stores  the data received from the sensor
     140  for subsequent processing and/or analysis.
00991      The processor 200 responds to information inputs    from the
     clock 204 and the sensor 140 by sending digital commands to open
     and close the valves 130  and 190.    In one embodiment, the valves
     130  and 190 may control gas  flow in and out of the sealed
                                      -28-

     enclosure respectively. Digitally and electronically controlled
    valves are well known. In one embodiment, the processor 200 is
     also coupled to a peripheral device 208 which may be any one of
     a number of devices and/or circuits known in the art. In one
     embodiment, the peripheral device 208 may be the computer 154
      (FIG. 11) connected to the processor 200 via link 152     (FIG. 11).
     In another embodiment, the peripheral device may be a circuit
     for generating an audio and/or visual alarm if data received
     from the sensor 140    indicates that an atmospheric parameter is
     not within a predetermined range of a target parameter
    programmed into the processor 200.      Such circuits for generating
     an audio and/or visual alarm are well-known in the art.
    Alternatively, the audio and/or visual alarm can be generated by
     the computer 154    (FIG. 11) by sending an alarm signal  from the
    processor 200 to the computer 154 via the communications line
     152  (FIG. 11).
)100]      In one embodiment, the controller 150    is a modified
     atmosphere   ("MA") controller that samples and introduces gases
     into the sealed enclosure until the desired atmosphere is
     achieved. After the desired atmosphere is achieved, the MA
     controller is   removed and the sealed enclosure is   resealed and
     transported or stored. A flowchart illustrating the operation of
     one type of an MA controller, in accordance with one embodiment
     of the invention,    is shown in FIG. 14.  This MA controller fills
     the sealed enclosure with C02 until desired levels of air
    pressure and C02 are achieved or the injection process runs out
     of time.
0101]      In steps 210 and 230,   a person enters conditions  into the
    MA controller. As previously discussed, these settings can be
    programmed into the processor by anyone of numerous input
    devices and/or methods. The drawdown pressure setting, step 210,
                                       -29-

     defines the amount of air to be removed from the sealed
     enclosure.
)102]      In step 220, air is  removed from the sealed enclosure until
     a sufficiently low pressure or drawdown set point is achieved.
     After the controller receives the new desired conditions in step
     230,  the controller opens valves to the gas     tanks containing the
     desired gases. The  opening of the valves is     the beginning of
     step 240 in which the desired atmosphere is      introduced into the
     sealed enclosure. A sensor 140     (FIGS. 11 and 13)  then begins to
     monitor the atmospheric conditions within the sealed enclosure
     by sampling the enclosed atmosphere. In steps 250 and 290,       the
     sensor measures the air pressure and the C02 levels and the
     measurements are compared to desired levels      in steps 260 and
     300.  If desired levels are achieved, conditions 270 and 3 10 are
     satisfied and shutdown, step 330      is triggered. If either or both
     conditions are not  satisfied, the steps 280 and/or 320      occurs
     and the controller continues to fill the sealed enclosure.
)103]      In step 340 the elapsed time is determined, and in 350       the
     elapsed time  is compared to the desired time limit.     If elapsed
     time has not yet exceeded the programmed time limit, condition
     360  fails and the scaled enclosure continues to fill. If the
     programmed time limit is exceeded, then condition 360       is
     satisfied and step 380,   shutdown, occurs.
0104]      After shutdown by either step 330     or 380, in step 390  a
     check for system leaks or problems is performed. If there are
     leaks or other problems, in step 390 the human operator fixes
     the problem and the process returns to step 230 where desired
     time, pressure, and atmospheric setpoints are reset.
0105]      In another embodiment, a controlled atmosphere      ("CA")
     controller establishes the desired atmosphere within the sealed
     enclosure, and then continues to sample and adjust the
     atmosphere during transportation. Generally, the CA controller
                                      -30-

    will maintain the desired atmosphere conditions, but the
    controller can optionally be programmed to adjust the atmosphere
    during transport or refrigerated storage. For example, the
    atmosphere can be adjusted, as previously discussed, to allow
    fruits to ripen as they near market. The controller may also
    optionally be programmed to fumigate the sealed enclosure during
    transport. The controller may intermittently add sanitizers or
    even toxic gases to kill pathogens in the sealed enclosure, but
    allow the toxic gases to be evacuated or dissipated before
    reaching the end of transport or controlled storage consumer.
)106]    The  operation or process of a CA controller, in accordance
    with one embodiment of the invention,     is summarized in the
    flowchart of FIG.   15. The desired conditions or setpoints are
    selected in step 400.   The controller takes an atmosphere sample
    from the sealed enclosure in step 410.     In step 420, the
    controller compares the levels of 02 to the setpoints selected
    during step 400.   If the 02 levels   are low, the controller
    performs  step 440  in which ambient air is added to the sealed
    enclosure. Conversely, if 02 levels are too high, in step 430
    the controller adds N2 to the sealed enclosure. Once the desired
    levels of 02 are achieved, in step 450,     the controller next
    checks the C02 levels.   If the C02   levels are low, in step 470
    the controller adds C02   to the sealed enclosure. If C02 are too
    high, in step 460 the controller adds N2 to the sealed
    enclosure. After either step 460 or step 470,     the process
    repeats  step 420 in which the controller returns to checking the
    02 levels. If the controller measures acceptable levels of both
    02 and C02,  the controller returns to step 410 to draw a new air
    sample to test. The process may continue in time sequence for a
    predetermined length of time or indefinitely until the
    controller is  removed from the sealed enclosure connection.
                                     -31-

)107]      The operation or process performed by a CA controller in
     accordance with another embodiment of the invention is
     summarized in the flowchart of FIG. 16.      The desired conditions
     or setpoints are selected in step 480.      In step 490,  the
     controller takes an atmosphere sample from the sealed enclosure
    by drawing the enclosed gases over the sensor. In step 500,        the
     controller determines 02 levels and, in step 510,       compares the
     levels of 02 to the setpoints selected during step 480.       If 02
     levels are low, then condition 20     is true, and step 530   occurs.
     In step 530, the controller opens     a valve to add ambient air to
     the sealed enclosure. If 02   levels are too high, condition 540
     is true,  and the controller responds in step 550 by adding N2 to
     the sealed enclosure. Once the desired level of 02 are achieved
     condition 560  is true, and the controller performs step 570 by
     closing air valves coupled to the sealed enclosure, thereby
    preventing the flow of any gases to/from the interior of the
    enclosure.
)108]      While monitoring and maintaining the 02 levels, the
     controller simultaneously checks and adjusts C02      levels.  In step
     580,  the controller determines the levels of C02     and in step 590
     the controller compares the measured levels      of C02 levels to
    desired setpoints. If C02 levels are low, condition 600 is        true,
     and in step  610, the controller opens the valve to C02 tanks for
     a predetermined amount of time and, thereafter, returns to step
     580  to determine the level Of C02--If the C02 levels are high,
     condition 620  is true, and in step 630     the controller opens the
    valves to the N2 tanks    (or source)   to allow N2 to enter the
     sealed enclosure. Once desired levels Of C02 are achieved,
     condition 640  is satisfied, in step    650 the controller closes
    valves to the C02 tanks    and N2 tanks    (or sources).
0109]      A method for creating a sealed enclosure around perishable
     agricultural products or other products stacked on pallets, and
                                      -32-

     for establishing and maintaining a modified atmosphere within
     the sealed pallet or bin enclosure is provided. An exemplary
     process  includes the following steps, as illustrated and
     described in FIG.  17.
)110]      Step 800: Provide pallet. The pallet can be positioned
     manually. Alternatively, the pallet can be positioned
     mechanically by a machine such as a forklift or mechanical arm.
)111]      Step 810: Put base cap on the pallet. The base cap can be
     positioned manually or by a machine such as a forklift or
     mechanical arm. FIG. 3 illustrates the base cap 10 positioned on
     the pallet 30.  The base cap may be:
)112]      a) placed on the pallet  (later weighted by the goods and
     secured by the wrapping of plastic film);
)113]      b) glued, taped or secured to the pallet;     and/or
)114]      c) may be constructed with bottom locking tabs     14 (FIGS. 5
     8) to fit securely between the boards of the pallet to prevent
     the base cap from moving during transit. FIG. 4 shows a base cap
     with side flaps 12 which retain a bottom portion of the goods 40
     placed on top of the base cap 10.     In one embodiment, flaps 12
     can be either folded down to cover part of the pallet or folded
     up to cover part of the goods. The folded flaps      12 create a
     vertical  surface onto which a cover 90     (FIG. 3) or wrapping 80
      (FIG. 4) may be attached and sealed.
0115]      Step 820: Position goods onto the base cap. The goods can
     be positioned on the base cap and pallet manually by workers or
     by a worker with a pallet squeeze. Alternatively, a forklift or
     overhead crane or even an industrial robot can mechanically
     position the goods. Similarly, packaging materials may be placed
     around the goods. The goods may also be glued, taped, or
     otherwise secured to the base cap. Again, this securing process
     can be accomplished manually or mechanically through a device
     such an industrial robot.
                                     -33 -

1116]     Step 830: Position the top cap over the stacked containers
     or boxes of goods, as illustrated in FIG. 4. A machine such as a
     forklift, crane, or industrial arm, as described above can
     position the top cap manually or mechanically. FIG. 4 shows the
     top cap with side walls or flaps 22. The flaps 22 may be folded
     down to cover a portion of the top boxes of goods. A robot arm
     can accomplish the folding mechanically, for example. After
     folding, the flaps 22 can be secured to the goods by glue,  tape
     or similar substances. The folded flaps 22 create a vertical
     surface on which to connect a wrapping 80  (FIG. 4).
)117]     Step 840: Apply a wrap covering. The wrapping may be
     applied by circling one or more tolls of wrapping 80  (FIGS. 9
     and 10) around the pallet assembly so as to create an enclosure
     around the goods in conjunction with the top and bottom caps.
     FIG. 4 illustrates a preferred application of wrapping 80,  which
     includes overlapping the wrapping over base cap 10 and top cap
     20. However, the wrapping 80 can be applied using any one of
     numerous methods well known in the art. For example the
     transporter could pour, spray, spin, etc.,  the cover onto the
     palletized goods. Preferably, the application creates a smooth
     seal between the palletized goods and the cover. Alternatively,
     a worker can manually apply the wrapping by walking around a
     pallet assembly while dispensing the wrapping. Alternatively,
     the worker can spin the pallet assembly near a wrapping
     dispenser. The wrapping machine's previously described with
     respect to FIGS. 9 and 10 can also apply the wrapping.
     Optionally after positioning, the wrapping is secured to the
     caps and goods by various methods such as by heating, taping,
     zip-sealing and/or gluing the wrapping to the top and base caps.
0118]     Step 850: Inject or establish the proper atmosphere in the
     sealed enclosure and, as required during the injection or
     metering process, vent sealed enclosure to allow for rapid and
                                    -34-

     efficient replacement of the enclosure atmosphere. The proper
     atmosphere can be accomplished in the following ways:
)119]      a)  in one embodiment, the method automatically measures and
     adjusts the C02 and 02     levels within the enclosure by use of the
     controllers previously described.
)120]      b)  it is  also possible to manually measure and adjust the
     amount of C02    and N2 required within the enclosure. Based on
     sample test runs, a simple automated system based on a uniform
     sized sealed enclosure may be established.
)121]      c) the required atmosphere may be calculated based on
     injection time and pressures, net volume of space within the
     enclosure, the product's needs, etc. and then injected manually
     or via an automated system.
)122]      d)  in another embodiment, the product respiration may
     create its own modified atmosphere within the sealed enclosure
      (where time, value and product sensitivity or other factors
     allow).
)123]      e)  in another embodiment, a calculated amount of dry ice
     may be placed within the sealed enclosure to achieve a desired
     amount Of C02.
)124]      The methods described in options a to c require a human to
     connect hoses and valves to the sealed enclosure to introduce
     the desired gases. Such hoses would interconnect air tanks        or
     external gas    sources  (C02, N2,  03,  1-MCP, etc.)  to the
     controller and to the sealed enclosure. A controller can then be
     used to control the emissions      of gases from the tanks    (or
     sources)   into the enclosures by automatically opening and
     closing valves coupled between the air tanks        (or sources) and
     the enclosure.
0125]      The  above steps 810-850 may be repeated to create to
     separate enclosures on the same pallet. A new base cap 10,        new
     goods 40,   and a new top cap 20    can be placed over a completed
                                        -35 -

    pallet assembly. After the side wrapping 80    is applied, two
    separate internal enclosures exist on the same pallet.
)126]     Step 860:  Apply controller. A controller can monitor and
    regulate the atmosphere within the sealed enclosure by
    implementing one of the processes illustrated in FIGS. 14-16,
    for example. Preferably, as previously discussed, the controller
    has  connections which allow workers to snap hoses on and off the
    respective valves.
)127]     FIG. 18  illustrates an alternative pallet packing method in
    which a bag-type covering 90    (FIG. 3) is used instead of a top
    cap 20 and side wrapping 80.    In this new method, Steps 930  and
    940  replace Steps  830 and 840:
)128]     Step 930:  Position Bag over goods. FIG. 3 illustrates   a
    covering 90 positioned over goods 40.    The covering 90 is
    installed by placing the open end over the top of the loaded
    pallet. The covering 90 may be installed either manually or
    automatically by a machine that positions the covering over the
    goods.
)129]     Step 940:  Seal covering to base cap. The open end of the
    covering is secured to the base cap by various techniques     such
    as by gluing or taping. The glue or tape can be manually applied
    or applied by a machine that circles the pallets. Sealing the
    sealed enclosure may be accomplished using wide adhesive tape,
    adhesive strips, stretch film, adhesive plastic film(s),    or
    adhesive sealant sprayed or applied between the plastic bag or
    film wrap and the bottom cap or film, or any other method which
    is  known to create an air-tight enclosure. The introduction of
    atmosphere   (Step 850) and the application of the controller
     (Step 860) are similar to those steps described above with
    respect to FIG. 17.   Therefore, the description of those steps is
    not  repeated here.
                                      -36-

)130]     FIG. 19  is a diagram illustrating a manual   stacking process
     in one embodiment. Bottom sheet   1906 is placed on an empty
    pallet 1902. Products   1904 are stacked, e.g.,   by hand, on top
    until full pallet is built. Bottom sheet 1906 is     then taped up
     to side of pallet on all four sides. Similarly, top sheet     1908
     is placed on top and taped down on all four sides. The pallet is
     transported, e.g.,  with a fork lift, and placed on a portable
     stretch wrap machine, such as the one shown in FIG. 20.
1131]     FIG. 20  illustrates a wrapping process in one embodiment
     for a full pallet, e.g.,  built according to the embodiment shown
     in FIG.  19. Pallet 2004 is wrapped from the bottom of the pallet
     to the top and back to the bottom creating, for example, two
     layers of stretch wrap on pallet. A stretch wrap machine 2002,
    e.g.,  rolls out the wrap material 2008 to wrap the pallet 2004.
    The pallet 2004 is   then transported to a controller that
     automatically adjusts the atmosphere inside the pallet as
    described above.
)132]     FIG. 21  illustrates the pallet that is   attached to a gas
     controller. A vacuum wand or sample line 2106 is    inserted
    between a layer of boxes near the bottom of the pallet. An
     injection wand 2110 is  inserted between a layer of boxes near
     the top of the pallet. When the wands 2106,    2108, 2110 are
     connected between the controller 2102 and the pallet 2104,     the
     controller 2102 may be enabled, for example, by pressing an
     "enable" button 2112.
0133]     The  controller then vacuums the pallet 2104, via the wand
     2106 until a negative pressure is    reached. The pallet 2104 is
    vacuumed to ensure that there are no leaks on the wrapped pallet
     2104. When a negative pressure is    reached, assuring that there
     is no leak, the injection cycle starts by injecting carbon
    dioxide   (C02) into the pallet 2104. In one embodiment, the
    vacuum stays on to help "PULL" the C02     into the pallet 2104. The
                                     -37-

     sample line 2108 connected between the pallet 2104 and the
     controller 2102 runs simultaneously, drawing sample atmosphere
     out from the pallet 2104.  The controller detects the C02 levels
     in the pallet by reading the C02     level in the sample.
)134]     This C02  injecting and sampling cycle continues until a
     desired C02 level  is reached inside the pallet 2104. The desired
     C02 level, e.g.,  may be preset in the controller, e.g.,     using
     controller's touch screen input functionality. When the
     controller detects that the desired C02 level has     reached, the
     controller 2102 stops the cycle and displays the C02      level in
     the pallet 2104.  The controller 2102 may also inform the
     operator, e.g.,  by display 2114 or audio functions, that the
     cycle has  completed successfully. The    lines 2106, 2108, 2110 are
     then removed and the remaining openings in the pallet 2104 where
     the lines were inserted are closed. The pallet 2104 is      then made
     ready for shipment.
)135]     FIG. 22  illustrates a semi-automatic process that packages
     products on a pallet and inserts desired atmosphere inside the
     pallet. A pallet 2202 of products from the field is placed on an
     input conveyor 2204.  The pallet 2202 moves down conveyor 2204
     and enters the top/bottom sheeting section. Squeeze arms 2206
     swing down into place and hold products 2202 while the conveyor
     section 2204  lowers with the pallet to create a space for the
     bottom sheet 2208 to be pulled into place. The conveyor then
     lifts back up and the bottom sheet is cut, and the squeeze arms
     release the pallet and swing back up out of the way for the
     pallet to advance.
0136]     The  leading edge of the bottom sheet may have an adhesive
     on it and there may be a mechanism that will rise up to adhere
     the edge of the sheet to the pallet to prevent it from getting
     caught in the equipment while advancing to the next queue. There
     may be a taping mechanism to tape the leading edge of the bottom
                                     -38-

    sheet to the pallet before it advances to the next queue to
    prevent it from getting caught in the equipment.
)137]    A top sheet is then pulled into place and cut. The pallet
    then advances to the wrap station. Once the pallet is    in the
    wrap station, a lift table with fingers    rises from below the
    conveyor to hold bottom sheet up in place for the wrap cycle.
    FIGS. 23a and 23b illustrate the lift table with fingers. As
    shown in FIG. 23a, fingers 2302 on a lift table 2304 rises up to
    hold the bottom sheet 2306. A top plate also may lower with
    fingers to hold the top sheet in place for the wrap cycle.
)138]    The wrap cycle begins,  for example, by starting at the
    bottom of the pallet and goes  to the top of the pallet and back
    to the bottom, creating two layers of stretch wrap on the
    pallet. When the wrap cycle ends,    the top plate lifts up sliding
    the fingers out from between the stretch wrap and the pallet.
    The bottom lift table lowers  also removing the fingers.
)139]    The pallet then advances to the gassing station as shown in
    FIG. 24. FIG. 24 illustrates  an example of a gassing station.
    Once in the station, an operator may insert the vacuum line 2402
    and sample/pressure sensor line 2404 in between a layer of boxes
    near the bottom of the pallet. In an exemplary embodiment,
    vacuum line 2402 and sample/pressure sensor line 2404 are
    integrated together so that one line is    inserted by the operator
    for vacuuming and sampling. For instance, sample line 2404 is
    located inside vacuum line 2402. Alternatively, vacuum line 2402
    and sample/pressure sensor line 2404 are separate lines so that
    both lines are independently inserted by the operator. An
    operator may also insert the injection line 2406 between a layer
    of boxes near the top of the pallet. In an exemplary embodiment,
    for a manual system and a semi-automated system, injection line
    2406 will have integrated therein one or more other lines    for
    injecting different gases, for instance, C02 and/or nitrogen
                                    -39-

     and/or ozone. Alternatively, injection line 2406 does not
     include any other lines integrated therein.
)140]      Once the lines or wands are in place, a controller 2410 may
     be engaged, for example, by pressing an "enable" button 2412 on
     the controller. The controller 2410 vacuums pallet until a
     negative pressure is reached. This   is done to make sure that
     there are no  leaks on the wrapped pallet. Once a negative
     pressure is reached assuring there is no leak, the injection
     cycle starts,  injecting C02 into the pallet. The vacuum stays on
     to help pull the C02 through the pallet to create a mixed
     atmosphere more quickly. The  sample/pressure sensor line 2404 is
     also running simultaneously to read the C02   levels in the
     pallet, in real time. The cycle continues until C02 level
     reaches the desired level. This desired level may have been set
     previously, for example, by using a touch screen 2414 on the
     controller 2410.  The controller 2410 then stops, displays the
     C02 level in the pallet 2408, and informs the operator of a
     successful cycle. The operator then may remove the lines 2402,
     2404,  2406 and place tapes over the holes. Operator then
     advances pallet onto the output conveyor where it is picked up
     by a forklift and is ready for shipment.
J141]      FIG. 25 illustrates automated procedure for wrapping and
     inserting desired amount of gas into a pallet before the pallet
     is ready to be shipped. Pallet 2502 of product from the field is
     placed on the input conveyor 2504. Pallet moves down conveyor
     and enters the top/bottom sheeting section. Squeeze arms 2506
     swing down into place and hold product while the conveyor
     section 2504  lowers with the pallet to create a space for the
     bottom sheet 2508 to be pulled into place. The squeeze arms 2506
     are, for example, mechanical or robotic arms. The conveyor 2504
     then lifts back up and the bottom sheet 2508 is cut, and the
                                     -40-

    squeeze arms 2506 release the pallet 2502 and swing back up out
    of the way for the pallet to advance.
)142]    The leading edge of the bottom sheet may have an adhesive
    on it and there may be a mechanism that will rise up to adhere
    the edge of the sheet to the pallet to prevent it from getting
    caught in the equipment while advancing to the next queue. There
    may be a taping mechanism to tape the leading edge of the bottom
    sheet to the pallet before it advances to the next queue to
    prevent it from getting caught in the equipment. Similarly, a
    top sheet is then pulled into place and cut.
)143]    The pallet then advances to the wrap station. FIG. 26
    illustrates a wrap station 2600 in one embodiment. FIGS. 27a and
    27b illustrate a lift table with fingers for holding a pallet in
    position. As  shown in FIGS. 27a and 27b, once the pallet 2702 is
    in the wrap station 2600   (FIG. 26),  a lift table with fingers
    2706 rises from below the conveyor to hold bottom sheet 2710 up
    in place for the wrap cycle. A top plate also lowers with
    fingers to hold the top sheet in place for the wrap cycle. The
    wrap cycle begins,  for example, by starting at the bottom of the
    pallet and goes to the top of the pallet and back to the bottom,
    creating two layers of stretch wrap on the pallet. Some or all
    of the fingers  2706 are hollow tubes and may be equipped with
    lines 2708.  In an exemplary embodiment, lines 2708 are one or
    more lines, such as vacuum, sample, pressure sensor and/or
    injection lines. The injection lines may or may not be
    integrated for a fully-automated system. The inject lines may be
    joined to inject through a single finger or separate to inject
    through different fingers. One or more gasses can be injected,
    for example, three gases can be injected through the finger(s).
    Additionally, the vacuum, sample and/or pressure sensor line(s)
    may or may not be integrated. The    line(s) may be joined to
    vacuum, sample and/or sense through a single finger or vacuum,
                                    -41-

    sample and/or sense through different fingers. Fingers 2706
    remain in the wrap. Once the wrap cycle is complete, a
    controller starts the gas cycle.
)144]    In one embodiment, a controller vacuums the pallet until a
    negative pressure is reached. This    is done to make sure there
    are no leaks on the wrapped pallet. Once a negative pressure is
    reached assuring that there is no leak, the injection cycle
    starts, injecting C02 into the pallet. The vacuum stays on to
    help pull the C02 through the pallet to create a mixed
    atmosphere more quickly. The sample line is    also running
    simultaneously to read what the C02 levels are in the pallet in
    real time. The cycle continues until a desired C02 or prescribed
    gas levels are reached. This desired level,    for example, may
    have been set previously, for example, using a touch screen on
    the controllers. When the gas cycle is    complete, the top plate
    and the lift table pull away to slide the fingers    out from
    between the wrap and the pallet as shown in FIG. 27b. Additional
    final wraps or sealing may be completed as required. The pallet
    then advances to the output conveyor to be picked up by a
    forklift.
)145]    FIGS. 28a and 28b illustrate wrapping process for one or
    more products stacked on a pallet in one embodiment. A bottom
    sheet 2804 is placed on the pallet 2802 by using either a fork
    truck with squeeze attachments to lift the product off the
    pallet to slide the sheet in place, or the sheet may be placed
    on the pallet in the field prior to being "built" or stacked
    with product. Bottom sheet 2804 is    then taped up into place. A
    quick-connect hose fittings 2806 are adhered in place on the
    pallet 2802. As shown in FIG. 28b, a pallet bag 2808 may be
    placed over the pallet, taped flush to the pallet 2802, and
    taped down to the bottom sheet. A    cardboard tie sheet may also
    be placed on top of the pallet.
                                   - 42-

)146]     In one embodiment, the pallet is placed on the stretch wrap
    machine and wrapped, for example,     from the bottom of the pallet,
     to the top of the pallet, and back down to the bottom. FIG. 29a
     illustrates a pallet 2902 having a wrap and bagging. This double
    wrapping results in secure and stable pallet for shipment. This
     second layer also ensures an air tight seal around the pallet.
    The  second layer of wrap around the pallet allows for more rigid
     cover, and helps to assure uniformity of desired air flow
    equally to all the pallets.
)147]     In another embodiment, a wrap enclosure without a bag may
    be utilized. FIG. 29b illustrates     a pallet 2904 with wrappings.
    This wrap may include a top and bottom sheet, for example a
     stretch wrap that has adhesive properties for adhering to the
     top and bottom sheet for an airtight seal.
)148]     Depending on the products to be packaged, different types
     of bags and film wraps may be used. For example,    there are wraps
     that do not allow any gas transmission through a film. These
     types of film are known as Barrier Films. The Barrier Films do
    not  let any C02 out, or any 02 in.
)149]     Other wraps have a microporous membrane. For example,    some
    products inside a pallet may use up 02 and give off C02 causing
    gas  levels to go out of an acceptable range when not plugged
     into a control system. The microporous    film allows C02 and 02 to
    pass through at a specified exchange rate to maintain a proper
     atmosphere.
0150]     The present automatic and continuous monitoring system
    eliminates the hassle of trying to figure out which plastic bag
     or wrap to use for the proper gas exchange.    It also allows for
    different respiration rates of the product enclosed, and the
     impact of temperature, because it continuously monitors and
     adjusts the atmosphere to maintain the desired set-point of
     atmosphere.
                                    -43 -

)151]      After the pallet is wrapped, the pallet is moved to a
     manifold system. FIG. 30  illustrates a wrapped pallet 3002 in a
     manifold system being connected to injection hoses. Small
     incisions are made in the enclosure at the quick-connect hose
     fittings 3004a, 3004b to allow the hoses 3006a, 3006b to be
     attached.
)152]      FIG. 31 illustrates a portion of a manifold having a
     pressure relief valve. The hoses 3106a, 3106b are connected to
     the manifold 3100 and the gas level may be set on a controller.
     The  controller is then enabled to start regulating the
     atmosphere. A pressure relief valve 3102 on the manifold 3100
     prevents over pressurizing the pallets or equipment. The valve
     maintains 3102,  for example, one to two pounds of positive
     pressure in the manifold 3100 to ensure that no  fresh air leaks
     in.
)153]      FIG. 32a illustrates a multi-zone controller 3202. FIG. 32b
     illustrates a single zone controller 3204.  In one aspect, a
     single-zone controller 3204 is used to control one manifold, and
     adjusts to one atmosphere setting. Similarly, a multi-zone
     controller 3202 that controls multiple manifolds, each with a
     different atmosphere setting may be used. The multi-zone
     controller 3202 may be modular and may include any desired
     number of combinations of pallets and manifolds, resulting in
     controlling many different atmosphere settings.
0154]      A single zone controller 3204 may include one 02
     analyzer/sensor, one C02 analyzer/sensor, one sample pump, one
     N2  solenoid, one C02 solenoid, one fresh air pump with solenoid.
     The  setting may be adjusted by turning 'pots' or potentiometers
     on the front of the two analyzers. For example, turning
     clockwise increases the percentage desired, and turning counter
     clockwise decreases  the percentage. In one embodiment, there are
                                     -44-

     three flow meter controls for the 3 individual gases, for
     example, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and fresh air.
)155]     The multi-zone controller 3202 may include one or more 02
     analyzer/sensors, one or more C02      analyzer/sensors, on or more
     sample pumps,  one or more N2 solenoids, one or more C02
     solenoids, one or more fresh air pumps with solenoid. The
     settings, in one embodiment, may be adjusted by touch screen
     software. The percentage of gas for each of the zones may be
     selected by inputting the desired amount.
)156]     Multiple solenoids may also be attached to the three main
     solenoids for each of the zones.    One or more main solenoids may
     open along with one or more of the zone solenoids, depending on
     the gas needed. The multi-zone controller 3202 also may include
     a modem connected to a Personal Computer      ("PC"). The PC may be,
     for example,  located locally or remotely. Accordingly, gas
     levels may be checked, adjusted, or zones completely shut off or
     turned on from any laptop or desktop located anywhere. For
     example, a user may be provided with a name and password to
     enable the user to log into the controller. This way, a user
     having the authorization may monitor and change the atmosphere
     as desired.
J157]     FIGS. 33a-d illustrate a plurality of wrapped pallets
     connected to a plurality of manifolds 3304 of a manifold system.
     In this example, the manifold system is made up of at least two
     different sections:  a blower section and an add-on section. Each
     section consists of at least two pallet locations. The blower
     section incorporates a centrifugal fan or blower to force air
     through the rest of the manifold sections. The blower section
     also includes at least the gas inject points and gas      sample
     points. Hoses 3310 are used, for example, for the injecting and
     sampling. In an exemplary embodiment, the add-on section does
     not have any fans or inject/sample points. Rather, the add-on
                                     -45  -

    section connects to the blower section to expand the manifold
    systems' pallet capacity. When the manifold system has enough
    add on sections to meet a customers' needs, an end cap is then
    connected to the last section to make the manifold system air
    tight.
)158]     As  shown in FIG. 33a-d, pallets 3302 having packaged
    products are connected via hoses 3310 to the manifolds 3304. A
    controller 3308 controls the amount of gas        inside the packaged
    pallets by controlling the amount of gas released from a gas
    tank 3306 via the manifolds 3304. As described and shown, the
    manifolds may be built    in modular sections.
)159]     In an alternative embodiment of the present application,
    vacuuming, injection and sampling occurs as follows. A vacuum
    controlled by a controller vacuums a pallet until a negative
    pressure is reached to determine at least whether any leaks
    exist on the wrapped pallet. Once a negative pressure is reached
    indicating that a leak does not exist, an injection cycle
    starts,   injecting ozone  (03) and nitrogen     (N2).  The vacuum stays
    on to help pull the 03 through the pallet and the N2          is used as
    a carrier for the 03 and to lower the oxygen         (02)  level. After
    the prescribed sanitizer exposure       level is reached, the 03 shuts
    off. In an exemplary embodiment, this       is a combination of ppm of
    03 over a set amount of time. Alternatively, however, it could
    be a measured volume and a sensed quantity of 03. Carbon dioxide
     (C02) is  then injected. The N2 continues to be injected and the
    vacuum continues to pull the gases through the pallet to create
    a mixed atmosphere more quickly. A sample line is          also running
    simultaneously to read the C02 and 02       levels in the pallet in
    real time. The cycle continues until a C02        level and 02 level
    are reached. In an exemplary embodiment, the C02          level and the
    02  level have been set previously using a touch screen
    associated with the controller.
                                      - 46-

)160]     Alternatively, the sanitizer   (03) is an option and can be
     chosen to inject or not depending on the needs of the product.
     Further, depending on the system, when the cycle is complete, an
     employee can remove the hoses from the pallet or the fingers
     will be removed automatically. The pallet can then be moved to
     the next queue to be picked up and shipped. The above-described
     alternative embodiment for injecting, vacuuming and/or sampling
     is applicable to each of the exemplary embodiments described in
     the present application.
)161]     In alternative exemplary embodiments of the present
     application, the methods and systems operable for providing a
     regulated atmosphere, as described above, may be utilized in
     conjunction with systems and methods operable to introduce
     substances within the enclosed area containing products such as
     perishable and/or fresh products, to facilitate   infusion of
     substances into the products. The   substance introduction and/or
     infusion operations may be performed in association with a cold
     pasteurization method. Such substance introduction and/or
     infusion operations may be operable to increase the efficiency
     of application and/or absorption of the introduced substance or
     substances to the products.
J162]     The infusion and/or substance introduction methods and
     systems may be utilized in conjunction with the methods and
     systems described above. The substance introduction may be
     performed in conjunction with the sealed enclosures of the
     present application, as described above and including individual
     consumer packages, or in conjunction with tube cooler systems,
     containers, chambers, and the like. The sealed enclosures, tube
     cooler systems, containers, chambers, and the like may be
     transportable or may be stationary and fixed in position.
0163]     The infusion systems and methods may be utilized in
     conjunction with vacuum cooling techniques.   In a vacuum cooling
                                    -47-

    technique, the products, such as perishable and/or fresh
    produce, may be placed inside a large   sealed rigid container or
    chamber. The container or chamber may include, for instance, a
    sealed door and/or hatch that may be sealed to provide an
    airtight enclosure within the container or chamber. The
    container or chamber may be constructed of any suitable rigid or
    semi-rigid material, including for instance metal, composite,
    carbon fiber, plastic, glass, or any other material that allows
    regulation of pressure or vacuum within an enclosed space.
)164]      As will be understood by one skilled in the art, the term
     "pressure" as used herein may generally refer to an air
    pressure, and may have a value that is positive or negative. The
    term "positive pressure" is meant to refer to a value of
    pressure greater than atmospheric pressure, as resulting for
    instance when air is pumped into a sealed volume, whereas
     'negative pressure" is meant to describe a value of pressure
    less than atmospheric pressure, as resulting for instance when
    air is evacuated from a sealed volume. The terms   "pressure" and
     "vacuum"v may alternatively be used, and may refer to their
    commonly-understood meanings.
)165]      In an exemplary embodiment, for instance, the rigid
    container may additionally be connected to a vacuum pump system,
    a temperature monitoring and control system, gauges operable for
    measuring a pressure within the container or chamber, a fluid
    evacuation system for removing fluid evaporated from the
    products, vents and associated valves operable for controlling
    movement of air and fluid from the container or chamber, and
    fluid introduction system for applying fluid to the products.
    The vacuum pump system may include at least one motor, at least
    one pump, and assorted air passageways   operable to connect the
    vacuum pump system to the container or chamber.
                                     -48-

)166]    After placing the products in the container or chamber,
    much or most of the air in the chamber may be evacuated through
    the use of the vacuum pump system, thereby creating a negative
    pressure or vacuum condition within the container or chamber.
    The vacuum causes water to evaporate rapidly from the surface of
    the products, thereby lowering their temperature. Such vacuum
    cooling techniques may be particularly effective on products
    that have a high ratio of surface area to volume, such as leafy
    greens and lettuce, and products that have overlapping surfaces
    that may be difficult or impossible to effectively cool with
    other conventional cooling techniques, such as forced air or
    hydrocooling techniques.
)167]    In an exemplary embodiment, cooling may be effected as
    described above thorough the evaporation of fluid coating the
    products at the time of their placement into the container or
    chamber. Alternatively, additional fluid, such as water, may be
    applied to the products prior to modification of the pressure,
    to increase the cooling effect. Such application of fluid may
    occur before operation of the vacuum system, or may be performed
    in between successive cycles of operation of the vacuum system.
)168]    In an exemplary embodiment, such a vacuum cooling method
    may be utilized in conjunction with the various exemplary sealed
    enclosures of the present application, as described above. For
    instance, in the embodiment as shown in FIG. 11,  a sealed
    enclosure may be coupled to at least one sensor 140 which can
    receive samples from the sealed enclosure, via a hose 145
    coupled to a valve 130 located on the top cap 20.  A controller
    150 may receive data from the sensor 140, and thereafter
    implement corrective or responsive action. The controller 150
    may be coupled to an automatic valve 160 which may be coupled to
    a gas tank 170, which may be operable to allow gas from tank 170
    to flow through the hose 180 into the sealed enclosure via a
                                   -49-

    second valve 190 coupled to the top cap 20.     A third valve 132
    may be coupled to the top cap 20     for evacuating the internal
    area surrounded by the sealed enclosure. A pressure switch 135
    may be coupled to the third valve 132,     and may be operable to
    measure the pressure within the sealed enclosure. In an
    exemplary embodiment, a computer 154 may be linked to the
    controller 150 via a communications link 152,     and may be used to
    program the controller 150.
)169]    In an exemplary embodiment, for instance, the internal area
    surrounded by the sealed enclosure may be evacuated via the
    third valve  132, and the quantity and duration of the vacuum or
    negative pressure produced within the area surrounded by the
    sealed enclosure may be controlled by the controller 150 and
    computer 154.
)170]    As will be understood by one skilled in the art, in
    alternative exemplary embodiments, the components and systems
    described above with respect to the sealed enclosure may be
    utilized in conjunction with sealed rigid containers or
    chambers. Additionally, the components     and systems described
    above with respect to the sealed enclosure may be utilized in
    conjunction with multiple sealed enclosures in an array, as in
    the exemplary embodiment shown in FIG. 12,     and/or in conjunction
    with an array of rigid sealed containers or chambers.
    Additionally, the vacuum cooling and/or substance introduction
    procedures may be performed utilizing a venturi delivery system.
    Additionally, the components  and systems described above with
    respect to the sealed enclosure may be utilized in conjunction
    with individual consumer packages including, for example, pre
    packaged perishable food products enclosed, for example, in
    permeable, semi-permeable, or impermeable film material.      [0171]
         In an exemplary embodiment, a rigid container and/or
    chamber system may be utilized, as shown in FIG. 34.     A rigid
                                    -50-

    container 3402 may be connected with a gas   source 3410,  a sensor
    3404   and a pump 3412. A controller 3406, for example a
    programmable   logic controller, may receive data from the sensor
    3404. Air may be evacuated and/or introduced into the container
    by pump 3412,   or by valve 3414. An optional computer 3408 may be
    linked to the controller 3406 via a communications link 3416.
)172]     Various substances may be introduced into the area
    surrounded by the sealed enclosure and/or the sealed rigid
    containers or chambers at any point before, during, or after the
    performance of the vacuum cooling procedure described above or
    variation of the pressure within the sealed enclosure. The
    substance may include any suitable substance operable to improve
    the value, safety, shelf-life, flavor, consumability, and or
    marketability of the products.
)173]     The  substance may include, for example, a sanitizing
    substance, a flavoring substance, a preservative   substance, a
    food additive substance, a coating substance, a sealing
    substance, an essence and/or essential   oil substance, a mineral
    substance, a vitamin substance, a biological substance, and
    other substances. The sanitizer substance may be in the form of
    a gas, a liquid, or a vaporized liquid, and may include, for
    example,   ozone, nitrous oxide, inert gases, chlorine in all its
    forms, hydrogen peroxide, peracetic acid, nitrite and nitrate
    compounds, iodine, benzoates, propionates, nisin, sulfates, and
    sorbates or any other suitable gas or gaseous sanitizer. The
    flavoring substance may include any flavoring that is    suitable
    for application to and/or infusion in the products.
     [0174]     Additionally, the substance may include one or more of
    coloring substances, food grade acid substances, mineral salt
    and/or mineral salt solutions, nutritional additives,
    sweeteners, flavor enhancers,   and the like. The extracts,
    essence and/or essential   oil substance may be in the form of a
                                     -51-

gas, a liquid, or a vaporized liquid, and may include, for
example, essential   oils from fruits        (e.g., strawberries,
blueberries, pomegranates, grapes, lemons, grapefruits, oranges,
other citrus,   cherries, and the like),        vegetables, flowers,  and
other perishable food products, including, for example but not
limited to, mint, clove, green tea, rose hips,          hibiscus,
ginseng, cacao.    An essence    substance may possess in high degree
the predominant qualities of a natural product           (as a plant or
drug) from which it is extracted         (as, for example, by steam
distillation or infusion).       An essential oil substance may
include a concentrated hydrophobic liquid containing volatile
aroma compounds   of the plant    or product from which it     was
extracted.   An essence and/or essential         oil substance may be
collected from distillate from processing fruit products and may
have antimicrobial and/or anti-fungal properties.            An exemplary
essential  oil may include thyme oil         (thymol; 2-isopropyl-5
methylphenol, IPMP).    The mineral substance may be in the form
of a gas,  a powder, a liquid, a fluidized compound, a vaporized
liquid.   The vitamin substance may be in the form of a gas,          a
powder, a liquid, a fluidized compound, or a vaporized liquid,
and may include, for example but not limited to,           thiamine
hydrochloride, riboflavin      (Vitamin B2),     niacin, niacinamide,
folate or folic acid, beta carotene, potassium iodide,           iron or
ferrous  sulfate, alpha tocopherols, ascorbic acid, Vitamin D,
amino acids   (L-tryptophan, L-lysine, L-leucine, L-methionine)or
any other suitable gas, powder, liquid, or vaporized liquid
vitamin substance.    The biological substance may be in the form
of a gas, powder, micro or nano particle, a fluidized compound,
a liquid, or a vaporized liquid, and may include, for example,
probiotics such as Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium or any
other suitable gas,   liquid, or vaporized liquid biological
substance.   Probiotics may include live microorganisms that may
                                    -52-

     confer a health benefit on the host when consumed such as,     for
     example, naturally occurring beneficial or "friendly organisms"
     which are biologically active against pathogenic and spoilage
     organisms.  In accordance with an embodiment, the biological
     substance can be added to the sealed enclosure, for example,
     after a sanitation cycle/sequence has occurred or as part of a
     stand alone treatment and may provide benefits by, for example,
     crowding out harmful organisms on the surface of the perishables
     and/or providing antimicrobial and anti-fungal properties.
     The substance may include, for example but not limited to,     one
     or more of calcium sulfate, ammonium phosphate, Ascorbic acid,
     citric acid, sodium benzoate, calcium propionate, sodium
     erythorbate, sodium nitrite,  calcium sorbate, potassium sorbate,
     BHA, BHT, EDTA, tocopherols  (Vitamin E),   Citrus Red No.  2,
     annatto extract, beta-carotene, grape skin extract, cochineal
     extract or carmine, paprika oleoresin, caramel color, fruit and
     vegetable juices, saffron, supplements, phages, electrostatic
     ally charged particles, or any other suitable gas,    liquid,
     powder, fluidized compound or vaporized liquid substance.
     Application of electrostatically charged particles to a product
     within the sealed enclosure may be applicable to a perishable
     food product or a hybrid seed.    Electrostatic spraying and/or
     coating is defined herein as a manufacturing process that
     applies charged particles, e.g.,   powdered particles or an
     atomized liquid, to a work piece   such as,  for example, a
     perishable food product or a hybrid seed.
0175]     Alternatively or additionally, substances such as water
     and/or another suitable liquid may additionally be introduced,
     either as the introduced substance or in addition to an
     introduced gaseous and/or vaporized liquid substance, for
     instance to regulate a water content of the product or to
                                    -53 -

    increase efficiency of the cooling and/or substance
    introduction.
)176]    In an embodiment, substances may be added or injected to an
    enclosure without monitoring and adjusting the enclosed
    atmosphere.   Added, injected, or metered substances may include,
    for example,  foams, gels, or encapsulated material that has     time
    release or other properties of value delivered into a sealed
    enclosure to benefit the product inside.      A substance treatment
    may include the addition of a substance into the sealed
    enclosure and may be an enhancement to the modified or
    controlled atmosphere by modifying pressure, temperature, or
    other environmental factors that may be controlled by the
    controller 3406.   The value of a substance treatment may be
    enhanced when a product is treated in a sealed enclosure and the
    substance treatment is combined with, or made more effective
    because of, a regulated environment, a modified atmosphere,
    and/or a controlled atmosphere.      To assure consistent product
    protection, preservation, and/or enhancement, controller 3406
    may be used for the substance treatment in combination with
    target parameters,  set-points, and/or operating instructions.
    Substance treatments may occur at different times      (e.g., before,
    during, or after modified atmosphere/controlled atmosphere
    techniques) and may provide different ways for preserving,
    protecting and/or enhancing a perishable product. For example,
    products may be pre-treated with one or more substances before
    that product is placed in a sealed enclosure and then the pre
    treated substances may be activated     (or affecting the product
    treated with the one or more substances) as a result of the
    atmosphere, pressure, or other manipulation controlled by
    controller 3406 while the product is in the sealed enclosure.
    In one embodiment, controller 3406, when used in conjunction
    with added substance treatments, may continue to monitor and/or
                                    -54-

     adjust the additional substance treatments within the enclosure.
     In one embodiment, the sealed enclosure    (e.g., a pallet with
     goods stacked on the pallet and a bag covering the pallet of
     goods, a cooling tube apparatus, a rigid chamber, a shipping
     unit,  and/or a bin) may include substance treatments and forced
     air cooling, pressure cooling apparatus, humidity control,
     and/or atmospheric control    (e.g., gas levels and pressure
     levels).
)177]      Alternatively or additionally, substance treatments may be
     applied directly to one or more products prior to the product
     being placed into a sealed enclosure. These pre-enclosure
     treatments may, for example,    include substance applications
     sprayed directly on the product or added to washes or dips       so
     that the one or more applied substances adhere, coat,    or absorb
     into the one or more products and when the pre-treated products
     are placed in the sealed enclosure the one or more substances
     may be activated   (once enclosed) by utilizing options such as
     pressure, electrical or electro static charge, UV light      (or
     other forms of light) and/or focused sound waves. Other examples
     include thermal or chemical reactions with other substance(s),
     gas treatments, various   reagents, and/or other additives which
     may be used or introduced to act as a catalyst or as a
     complementary treatment to enhance the substance treatment
     outcome. Similarly, packaging materials may be pre-treated with
     substances and then used as a part of a consumer unit, a master
     shipping unit and/or to form the sealed enclosure itself.        These
     pre-treated packaging materials may then be activated     (as
     discussed above) within the sealed enclosure.
0178]      Alternatively or additionally, substance treatments applied
     to the environment, atmosphere, and/or product(s) within the
     sealed enclosure, may include but are not limited to,    a foam,
     gel, powder, and/or a manufactured encapsulated substance with
                                      -55 -

     physical,  chemical, thermal and/or time release properties that
     may benefit one or more products within the sealed enclosure.
     The introduction of a foam or gel,     for example, may be injected
     or carried into the sealed enclosure via pressurized gas and/or
     air. Alternatively, the ingredients required to make the foam
     may be combined within the enclosure to optimize the process,
     and/or maximize the benefits to the product within the
     enclosure.
)179]     Alternatively or additionally, another technique for
     introducing at least one substance may include positioning at
     least one product within a sealed enclosure, the sealed
     enclosure may have one or more conduits through which one of gas
     and/or fluid may flow into or out of the sealed enclosure.        Air
     may be evacuated from the sealed enclosure through the one or
     more conduits to create a predetermined pressure within the
     sealed enclosure.   A predetermined quantity of the at least one
     substance may be injected into the sealed enclosure through the
     one or more conduits.   In one embodiment, the injection and/or
     application of one or more substances and/or substance
     treatments may be controlled by controller 3406 using the same
     or similar techniques as during the creation of a modified or
     controlled atmosphere.
0180]     In an embodiment, a technique may be provided for supplying
     a desired substance treatment within a sealed enclosure either
     before, during and/or after creating a modified or controlled
     atmosphere, where at least one product is disposed within the
     sealed enclosure.   The technique may include regulating air
     components  (e.g., gas levels) and/or pressure     (e.g., levels)
     within the sealed enclosure through at least one conduit to
     create a first predetermined gas     level or pressure within the
     sealed enclosure, where the air components or pressure may be
     controlled by controller 3406 programmed with target parameters,
                                     -56-

     set-points and/or operating instructions to provide a desired
     substance treatment in combination with the desired atmosphere
     within the sealed enclosure.   Additionally, injecting, metering,
     and/or adding a pre-measured or predetermined quantity of at
     least one substance into the sealed enclosure may be performed
     through the at least one conduit, wherein the injecting or
     addition of the substance may be controlled by controller 3406
     in accordance with the target parameters, set-points and/or
     operating instructions.   Additional monitoring of the
     atmosphere, substance, pressure level,  and/or other parameters
     inside the sealed enclosure by sampling the atmosphere   (pressure
     or substance) and comparing at least one sampled parameter to
     the target parameters,  set-points and/or operating instructions
     may or may not be required for effective substance treatment of
     the perishable contained within the enclosure.   An additional
     benefit may be derived by maintaining and/or adjusting the
     substance  (amount), pressure, atmosphere gas level(s) and/or
     environmental conditions inside the sealed enclosure based on
     the monitoring, wherein the maintaining and/or adjusting of the
     substance, atmosphere, environment, or pressure may be
     controlled by controller 3406 in accordance with target
     parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions.
0181]     Alternatively or additionally, controlled substance
     treatments may also be added to a sealed enclosure even if the
     process of creating that enclosure or modified atmosphere
     differs from the techniques described herein.   The substance
     treatments may be optimized for the product and the provided
     substance application.   Injecting, introducing, and/or metering
     may be controlled by controller 3406 in accordance with target
     parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions. The
     described substance treatments may be applied by programming
     controller 3406 and scaling the equipment for injecting or
                                     -57-

     adding the substance to match the product needs as well as the
     enclosure size, shape and/or material used to create the sealed
     enclosure.  [0182]   Any of the elements coupled to the sealed
     enclosure that may allow passage of gas and/or fluid into the
     sealed enclosure may be utilized to introduce the one or more
     substances into the area surrounded by the sealed enclosure. In
     the exemplary embodiment shown in FIG. 11,   for example, such
     elements may include valve  130,  second valve 190 which may be
     coupled to the top cap 20  and connected to the hose 180,  and/or
     third valve  132 coupled to the top cap 20.
)183]     In an exemplary embodiment, the vacuum cooling method as
     described above may be performed any number of times,   and the
     quantity of vacuum and/or pressure, and the duration of
     maintenance of the vacuum and/or pressure, may be varied. For
     instance, the pressure within the area surrounded by the sealed
     enclosure and/or the container or chamber may be cycled, within
     any suitable combination of vacuum, positive pressure, and
     atmospheric pressure. The substances may be introduced at any
     point in any one or more of the cycles. The   substances may be
     introduced, for example, via one or more of the valves and/or
     hoses described above. Quantities and compositions of the
     introduced substances may be controlled via any of the sensors,
     controllers, and/or computers described above. The substances
     may be introduced either in conjunction with one or more vacuum
     cooling operations,  or independently of the performance of
     vacuum cooling operations.
0184]     In an exemplary embodiment, more than one substance may be
     introduced, and the plural substances may be introduced serially
     or simultaneously. Additionally, different substances may be
     introduced under different conditions,   such as a first substance
     being introduced under a first quantity of vacuum and for a
     first duration, while a second substance may be introduced under
                                     -58-

    a second quantity of vacuum and for a second duration. Some part
    of the substances may be evacuated from the area surrounded by
    the sealed enclosure and/or the container or chamber after
    introduction, or the substances may be allowed to remain within
    the sealed enclosure and/or the container or chamber.
)179]    In an exemplary embodiment, the pressure and/or vacuum
    within the sealed enclosure and/or the container or chamber may
    be cycled. Additionally, the pressure within sealed enclosure
    and/or the container or chamber may be raised to any value above
    atmospheric pressure. The introduced substance or substances may
    be introduced under conditions of vacuum, increased pressure, or
    atmospheric pressure, in any suitable concentration and for any
    suitable duration.
)180]    In an exemplary embodiment, for instance, pressure within
    the area surrounded by the sealed enclosure and/or the container
    or chamber may be modified by a "bump" procedure. In a bump
    procedure, for example, pressure within the area surrounded
    sealed enclosure and/or container or chamber may be reduced to a
    predetermined value, and maintained at that predetermined value
    for a predetermined period of time. Thereafter, the pressure may
    be increased, for instance by allowing air to enter the area
    surrounded sealed enclosure and/or container or chamber, until
    an internal pressure reaches a second predetermined value, and
    it may be maintained at the second predetermined value for a
    second predetermined period of time. During the increase of the
    pressure through allowance of air into the sealed area, the one
    or more substances may be introduced. This modification of
    pressure, with or without the introduction of the substance
    during the air allowance operation, may be repeated any number
    of times, utilizing any suitable values for the predetermined
    pressures and periods of time. Alternatively, the pressure
    within the area surrounded by the sealed enclosure and/or the
                                   -59-

    container or chamber may be cycled without maintaining the
    pressure for one or more predetermined periods of time.
    Concentrations and/or quantities of the introduced substance or
    substances may be varied, for example based upon a composition
    and/or characteristic of the product located within the area
    surrounded by the sealed enclosure and/or the container or
    chamber.
)181]    In an exemplary embodiment, the vacuum cooling and/or
    substance introduction as described above may be performed at a
    time of packaging of the product. Alternatively, the vacuum
    cooling and/or substance introduction may be performed during
    loading, unloading, transportation, shipping, or storage of the
    product.
)182]    The various embodiments described above may be combined to
    form a new embodiment.  Additionally, the individual features of
    the various embodiments described above may be combined to form
    a separate new embodiment.
)182]    The invention described above provides an improved method
    and apparatus for transporting perishable and/or atmosphere
    sensitive goods. Whereas particular embodiments of the present
    invention have been described above as examples, it will be
    appreciated that variations of the details may be made without
    departing from the scope of the invention. One skilled in the
    art will appreciate that the present invention can be practiced
    by other than the disclosed embodiments, all of which are
    presented in this description for purposes of illustration and
    not of limitation. It is noted that equivalents of the
    particular embodiments discussed in this description may
    practice the invention as well. Therefore, reference should be
    made to the appended claims rather than the foregoing discussion
    of preferred examples when assessing the scope of the invention
    in which exclusive rights are claimed.
                                   -60-

                              CLAIMS
1.   A method for providing a desired atmosphere within a sealed
enclosure, wherein at least one product is disposed within the
sealed enclosure, the method comprising:
     evacuating air from the sealed enclosure through at least
one conduit to create a first predetermined pressure within the
sealed enclosure, wherein the evacuating is    controlled by a
controller programmed with target parameters, set-points and/or
operating instructions to provide a desired atmosphere within
the sealed enclosure;
     injecting gas  into the sealed enclosure through the at
least one conduit to create an atmosphere with a second
predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure, wherein the
injecting of gas is  controlled by the controller in accordance
with the target parameters,  set-points and/or operating
instructions;
     regulating gas levels and/or pressure levels within the
sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit to regulate
the atmosphere to a predetermined gas    level and/or a
predetermined pressure level within the sealed enclosure,
wherein the gas levels and/or pressure levels are controlled by
the controller programmed with one or more target parameters,
set-points and/or operating instructions to provide a substance
treatment in combination with the desired atmosphere within the
sealed enclosure;  and
     applying a predetermined quantity of at least one substance
in addition to the atmosphere in the sealed enclosure to the at
least one product, wherein the applying of the at least one
substance is controlled by the controller in accordance with the
target parameters,  set-points and/or operating instructions and
the at least one substance coats,    is absorbed into, or infuses
into the at least one product.
                                -61-

2.   The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one substance
is applied to the at least one product prior to the at least one
product being disposed in the sealed enclosure.
3.   The method of claim 2, further comprising:
     activating the applied at least one substance within the
sealed enclosure using pressure, electrical or electrostatic
charge, light, or sound waves.
4.   The method of claim 1, further comprising:
     enhancing the applied at least one substance by injecting
one of a second at least one substance, a gas treatment, a
reagent, or additive into the sealed enclosure.
5.   A method for providing a desired atmosphere within a sealed
enclosure, wherein at least one product is disposed within the
sealed enclosure, the method comprising:
     evacuating air from the sealed enclosure through at least
one conduit to create a first predetermined pressure within the
sealed enclosure, wherein the evacuating is controlled by a
controller programmed with target parameters, set-points and/or
operating instructions to provide a desired atmosphere within
the sealed enclosure;
     injecting a gas into the sealed enclosure through the at
least one conduit to create an atmosphere with a second
predetermined pressure within the sealed enclosure, wherein the
injecting of the gas is controlled by the controller in
accordance with the target parameters, set-points and/or
operating instructions;
     regulating gas levels and/or pressure levels within the
sealed enclosure through the at least one conduit to regulate
                               -62-

the atmosphere to a predetermined gas  level and/or a
predetermined pressure level within the sealed enclosure,
wherein the gas levels and/or pressure levels are controlled by
the controller programmed with one or more target parameters,
set-points and/or operating instructions to provide a substance
treatment in combination with the desired atmosphere within the
sealed enclosure;
     applying a predetermined quantity of at least one substance
in addition to the gas to the at least one product, wherein the
applying of the at least one substance is controlled by the
controller in accordance with the target parameters,  set-points
and/or operating instructions;
     treating one or more packaging materials with the at least
one substance prior to the at least one product being disposed
in the sealed enclosure, wherein the one or more packaging
materials are used as a part of a consumer unit, a master
shipping unit or to form the sealed enclosure;   and
     activating the one or more packaging materials treated with
the at least one substance using pressure, electrical or
electrostatic charge, light,  or sound waves.
6.   The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one substance
comprises at least one of physical, chemical, thermal or time
release properties that benefit the at least one product within
the sealed enclosure.
7.   The method of claim 1,  further comprising:
     combining within the enclosure, one or more ingredients
required to make the at least one substance.
8.   The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one substance
coats, is absorbed into, or infuses into the at least one
                                -63 -

product, and wherein the evacuating facilitates the coating of,
absorption into, or infusion into the at least one product by
the at least one substance.
9.   The method of claim 1,  further comprising:
     monitoring the atmosphere inside the sealed enclosure by
sampling the atmosphere and comparing at least one sampled
parameter to the target parameters, set-points and/or operating
instructions; and
     maintaining and/or adjusting the atmosphere inside the
sealed enclosure based on the monitoring, wherein the
maintaining and/or adjusting of the atmosphere is  controlled by
the controller in accordance with target parameters,  set-points
and/or operating instructions.
10.  The method of claim 9, wherein the injecting the gas
facilitates the application to,  coating of, absorption into, or
infusion into the at least one product by the at least one
substance.
11.  The method of claim 9,  further comprising:
     injecting a second predetermined quantity of the at least
one substance into the sealed enclosure through the at least one
conduit, wherein the injecting of the second predetermined
quantity of the at least one substance is controlled by the
controller in accordance with the target parameters,  set-points
and/or operating instructions.
12.  The method of claim 11,  further comprising:
     maintaining the first predetermined pressure within the
sealed enclosure for a first predetermined period of time,
wherein the maintaining the predetermined pressure is  controlled
                               -64-

by the controller in accordance with the target parameters, set
points and/or operating instructions;    and
     maintaining the second predetermined pressure within the
sealed enclosure for a second predetermined period of time,
wherein the maintaining the second predetermined pressure is
controlled by the controller in accordance with the target
parameters, set-points and/or operating instructions.
13.  The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one substance
is at least one of a foam, a gel,    an encapsulated material, a
powder, a micro- or nano- particle, a fluidized compound, a
liquid, a vaporized liquid, a food grade acid, a mineral salt, a
mineral salt solution, a nutritional additive, a sweetener, a
flavor enhancer, a flavoring substance, a food additive
substance, a coating substance, a coloring substance, a
nutritional substance, a sealing substance, a mineral substance,
a vitamin substance, an essence and/or essential    oil substance,
a biological substance, a probiotic, or a substance containing
at least one of chlorine, hydrogen peroxide, nitrous oxide,
peracetic acid, nitrite, nitrate compound, iodine, benzoate,
propionate, nisin, sulfate, sorbate, or thymol.
14.  The method of claim 1, wherein the sealed enclosure
comprises at least one of: a pallet with goods stacked on the
pallet including a bag covering the pallet of goods, a cooling
tube apparatus, a rigid chamber, a shipping unit, or a bin.
15.  A method for providing a desired substance treatment within
a sealed enclosure either before, during, or after creating a
modified or controlled atmosphere, wherein at least one product
is disposed within the sealed enclosure, the method comprising:
                               -65 -

     regulating gas levels and/or pressure levels within the
sealed enclosure through at least one conduit to create an
atmosphere with a first predetermined gas level and/or a first
predetermined pressure level within the sealed enclosure,
wherein the gas levels and/or pressure levels are controlled by
a controller programmed with one or more target parameters,
setpoints and/or operating instructions to provide a substance
treatment in combination with the desired atmosphere within the
sealed enclosure;  and
     metering and/or adding a predetermined quantity of at least
one substance in addition to the gas into the sealed enclosure
through the at least one conduit, wherein the addition of the
substance is controlled by the controller in accordance with the
target parameters,  set-points and/or operating instructions,
wherein the at least one substance coats, is  absorbed into, or
infuses into the at least one product.
16.  The method of claim 15,  further comprising:
     monitoring the atmosphere, the at least one substance, the
pressure levels, or the gas  levels inside the sealed enclosure
by sampling the atmosphere and comparing at least one sampled
parameter to the target parameters, set-points and/or operating
instructions.
17.  The method of claim 16,  further comprising:
     maintaining and/or adjusting at least one of an amount of
the at least one substance, the pressure levels,  the gas levels
and/or environmental conditions inside the sealed enclosure
based on the monitoring, wherein the maintaining and/or
adjusting is controlled by the controller in accordance with
target parameters,  set-points and/or operating instructions.
                                -66-

18.  The method of claim 15, further comprising:
     activating the at least one substance using pressure,
electrical or electrostatic charge, light, or sound waves.
19.  The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one substance
comprises at least one of physical, chemical, thermal or time
release properties that benefit the at least one product
within the sealed enclosure.
20.  The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one substance
is at least one of a foam, a gel,   an encapsulated material, a
powder, a micro- or nano- particle, a fluidized compound, a
liquid, a vaporized liquid, a food grade acid, a mineral salt, a
mineral salt solution, a nutritional additive, a sweetener, a
flavor enhancer, a flavoring substance, a food additive
substance, a coating substance, a coloring substance, a
nutritional substance, a sealing substance, a mineral substance,
a vitamin substance, an essence and/or essential   oil substance,
a biological substance, a probiotic, or a substance containing
at least one of chlorine, hydrogen peroxide, nitrous oxide,
peracetic acid, nitrite, nitrate compound, iodine, benzoate,
propionate, nisin, sulfate, sorbate, or thymol.
21.  The method of claim 15, further comprising:
     combining within the enclosure, one or more ingredients
required to make the at least one substance.
                               -67-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
