                                     ABSTRACT
5 A method and apparatus (10) for sequestering credits on a gaming device
  according to type and then dispensing the credits in a preferential manner.
  10099943_1 (GHMatters) P87971.AU.5

                                                     -1
           Credit Sequencing and Dispensation Device and Method
                                               Technical Field
 5              The following invention is generally related to instrumentalities and
   methodologies in gaming devices. More specifically, the instant invention is
   directed to a method for sequestering and then sequencing the dispensation of
   credits in a gaming device.
10                                        Background of Invention
                Gaming establishments employ various            promotional endeavours to
   encourage                people to patronize their businesses.  One such promotion is
   offering credits to players, with the intent that these credits be redeemed in
15 machines at the issuing establishment. These credits often take the form of
   tokens, electronic keycards, or simply credit certificates and script.
                The promotional goal is thwarted when a player either redeems credit
   certificates directly for cash or inserts the credits into a machine at the
20 issuing establishment, and then opts to cash out immediately rather than
   putting the credits into play. Redeemed credits are not limited to use in that
   establishment and the issuing establishment is then subsidizing the player or
   other competing business establishments.
25              A similar problem arises when an establishment awards complimentary
   credits to a player as a reward for their patronage. These credits can be
   awarded in the physical form of keycards or tokens, but also may be awarded
   automatically by the gaming machine when a player meets predetermined
   criteria. These complimentary credits are subject to the same cashing-out
30 problem as the promotional credits discussed above.
                There are devices in the prior art, such as keycards, that allow an
   establishment to keep track of the number of credits held by a particular
   player. These work by means of memory devices that interface with a gaming
35 machine and are unique to each establishment. Cards or other tangible
   rewards issued by one establishment are not usually compatible with the
   gaming machines in a different establishment. These devices are not able to
   10099943_1 (GHMatters) P87971.AU.5

                                                -2
   illustrate a particular player's differing credit types. These devices merely
   record a total number of available credits without distinguishing whether the
   credits are complimentary, promotional, or acquired by the player for cash.
 5                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                In at least one embodiment, a method and apparatus may be provided
   to track different types of credits that may be awarded to a player.
10              In at least one embodiment, differing credits may be deployed by
   preference to some types of credits over others, ensuring that promotional or
   complimentary credits awarded by an establishment are utilized in that
   establishment. The player is always allowed to cash out any credits that were
   obtained by winning a game or those obtained by converting the player's own
15 money to credits.
                In at least one embodiment, a method for sequestering and dispensing
   credits inserted into a gaming device may be provided such that a gaming
   establishment may guarantee that its promotional funds are being
20 retained within that establishment.
                The method may provide a player with the ability to redeem for cash
   any credits that originated with the player.
25              The method may allow different types of credits to be played according
   to different paytables, affording the player greater gaming opportunities,
   depending on the types of credits held.
                The method may sequence the dispensation of credits when the credits
30 are represented on a card having memory means capable of sequestering
   credits by type.
                In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is
   provided a method for assessing and disbursing credits in a gaming machine,
35 the steps including:
   10099943_1 (GHMatters) P87971.AU.5

                                                    -3
                receiving credits from a player, wherein said credits are either casino
   derived or player-derived;
                sequestering the credits on the gaming machine in separate accounts
 5 as to casino-derived and player-derived credits; and,
                decrementing casino-derived credits into deference to player-derived
   credits while incrementing player-derived credits for any win, regardless of
   whether the credits played were casino-derived or player-derived.
10
   In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided
   a device for sequestering and then sequencing the dispensation of credits in a
   gaming device, comprising, in combination:
15              credit input means;
                a processor;
                credit-analysing means operatively coupled to said processor to analyse
20 credit input means and report status to said processor;
                a display operatively coupled to said processor receiving data from said
   credit-analyzing means, said display including a plurality of credit counters
   reflective of status reported by said credit-analyzing means, whereby a player
25 may visually perceive and track credit availability and origin of available
   credits; and,
                means for incrementing and decrementing said credit counters as a
   function of game play.
30
                                      Brief Description of Drawings
   The present invention will now be described by way of example only with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
35
                Figure 1 is a flowchart of the methodology according to the present
   invention.
   10099943_1 (GHMatters) P87971.AU.5

                                                           -4
                Figure 2 is a depiction of the apparatus associated therewith.
                Figure 3 is a depiction of the display screen shown in Figure 2, detailing
   the sequestration boxes for credits awarded.
 5                                    Best Mode(s) for Carrying Out The Invention
                Considering the drawings, wherein like reference numerals denote like
   parts throughout the various drawing figures, reference numeral 10 as shown
   in figure 2 is directed to the device according to the present invention.
10
                In its essence, the apparatus 10 includes a housing 16 which supports
   a visual display 2, preferably a video monitor, therewithin. Alternatively, the
   device may use a mechanical reel system. The display 2 includes a window 8
   for       special           messages       and  for  incrementing   and   decrementing credits
15 accumulated by the player. The device also includes an LED readout 4 for
   prompting the player and can provide similar verbiage as the window 8 or in
   lieu thereof, to stimulate the player. The device includes an inlet 6 for the
   reception therein for coins, currency, tokens, vouchers, and promotional or
   complementary                      credits to auger in the inception of play. A plurality of
20 decision-making buttons 12 are located on the face of the apparatus 10,
   preferably below the display 2 and a pull handle 14 can be used to initiate
   play as an alternative to supplement the decision-making buttons 12. A coin
   hopper 18 may be included to effectuate an output of an award due the
   player. A mechanism                        17 for issuing   and receiving   a memorandum     of
25 promotional or complementary credits is also provided. For example, a card 60
   having an integral magnetic memory strip could be used. The apparatus 10
   may have a top portion 32 with a display thereon having a motif correlative
   with the game to be played and can include a paytable. A plurality of speakers
   34 may be included on the device for aural interaction with the player. The
30 apparatus                also includes a processor P coordinating all functions         and a
   random             number generator G operatively              coupled  thereto for generating
   outcomes.
                More specifically, and with reference to figure 3, greater details with
   respect to the video display 2 can be explored. The display 2 features a
35 window 8 for special messages and display of credits accumulated. The
   window 8 contains a plurality of sequestration boxes 22, corresponding to the
   number of different types of credits offered by an establishment, which display
   10099943_1 (GHMatters) P87971.AU.5

                                                    -5
   the number of available credits of each type. For example, box 22a posts and
   then decrements casino originated complementary credits. Box 22b posts and
   then decrements casino originated promotional credits. Box 22c posts player
   originated credits. Box 22c posts winnings from not only the player originated
 5 credits, but also from the promotional and complementary accounts. Losses
   are posted on the player originated account only after the other two credit
   sources are exhausted.
                Referring to figure 1, the flow chart associated with the apparatus of
   FIGS. 2 and 3 can be explored. Initially, the player receives credits from an
10 establishment and inserts them into a gaming machine. The machine discerns
   the nature of any credits inserted by the player (as to origin: complementary,
   promotional or player) and displays the number of credits accumulated,
   sequestered by nature. As the player plays on the machine, credits are
   deducted from the player's total, with any complimentary or promotional
15 credits deducted first and any player-originated credits, that is, winnings from
   the game or money inserted by the player, deducted last. If the player chooses
   to cash out at any time, all player-originated credits are cashed out to the
   player. Any remaining promotional credits may be retained by the machine or
   zeroed out rather than surrendered to the player as freely negotiable currency.
20 In another embodiment, any remaining promotional or complimentary credits
   may be dispensed to the player in the form of a printed voucher or keycard via
   mechanism 17, therefore ensuring their use only in the issuing casino. This
   feature affords the player an opportunity to stop gaming and resume at a
   future         time in the         preferred establishment as to the promotional or
25 complementary credits.
                Because the credits can be sequestered as to origin, they may also be
   distinguishable to the extent that they can offer different payouts. In one form
   of the invention, it is contemplated that one or more classes of credits can be
   played according to a different paytable or for non-pecuniary prizes, such as a
30 vacation, dinner for two, a car, etc.
                Moreover, having thus described the invention, it should be apparent
   that numerous structural modifications and adaptations may be resorted to
   without departing from the scope and fair meaning of the instant invention as
   set forth hereinabove and as described hereinbelow by the claims.
   10099943_1 (GHMatters) P87971.AU.5

                                                 -6
    The claims defining the invention are as follows:
     1.          A method for assessing and disbursing credits in a gaming machine,
    the steps including:
  5
                 receiving credits from a player, wherein said credits are either casino
    derived or player-derived;
                 sequestering the credits into casino-derived and player-derived credits;
10
                 displaying the credits on the gaming machine in separate accounts as
    to casino-derived and player-derived credits; and,
                 decrementing casino-derived credits into deference to player-derived
15  credits while incrementing player-derived credits for any win, regardless of
    whether the credits played were casino-derived or player-derived.
    2.           The method of claim 1, including nominating the casino-derived credits
    as a plurality of types of promotional credits and decrementing the casino
20  derived credits according to a preferential hierarchy.
    3.           The method of claim 3, including nominating the casino-derived credits
    as complimentary credits which are subject to a secondary paytable when
    played.
25
    4.           The method of claim 1, including decrementing player-derived credits
    last.
    5.           The method of claim 1, including retaining remaining casino-derived
30  credits when one player cashes out, such that other subsequent players use
    them.
    6.           The method of claim 1, including zeroing out remaining casino-derived
    credits when the player cashes out, such that no other players may use them.
35
    7.           The method of claim 1, including dispensing remaining casino-derived
    credits to the player as a printed voucher when the player cashes out.
    10099943_1 (GHMatters) P87971.AU.5

                                                 -7
    8.           The method of claim 1, including dispensing remaining casino-derived
    credits by issuing to the player a card having memory means.
  5 9.           A device for sequestering and then sequencing the dispensation of
    credits in a gaming device, comprising, in combination:
                 credit input means;
10               a processor;
                 credit-analysing means operatively coupled to said processor to analyse
    credit input means and report status to said processor;
15               a display operatively coupled to said processor receiving data from said
    credit-analyzing means, said display including a plurality of credit counters
    reflective of status reported by said credit-analyzing means, whereby a player
    may visually perceive and track credit availability and origin of available
    credits; and,
20
                 means for incrementing and decrementing said credit counters as a
    function of game play.
     10.         The device of claim 9, wherein said processor reads from a card having
25  memory means, said memory means capable of reporting a plurality of credit
    origins to said credit-analyzing means.
    10099943_1 (GHMatters) P87971.AU.5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
