                                                 Abstract
     The invention provides a method for algae count data inputting via speech recognition and data
sheet generation, the system comprises a voice inputting device, a speech recognition unit, a data
comparison unit, a report data sheet output unit, a data sheet generation unit and an information
feedback device. In the invention, the highly developed speech recognition technology is adopted to
make the technician dictate the species' names, cell numbers or corresponding operation commands
in order to rapidly input enumeration data, automatically output the report by program and
maximally reduce the subsequent workload of the technician. The database of algae species' name is
convenient for the user to supplement the contents based on actual conditions and provide the
possibility for user customization by updating the database.

     A System and Method for Algae Count Data Inputting via Speech Recognition and Data
                                           Sheet Generation
   Technical Field
        The invention relates to the technical field of microscope count data inputting via speech
 5 recognition and report generation, in particular to a system and method for algae count data
   inputting via speech recognition and data sheet generation.
   Description of the Related Art
        As the important primary producer in water ecosystem, algae can immobilize solar energy
   and synthesize organic matters through photosynthesis, and move to the next trophic level
 0 along the food chain (web). Therefore, research on algae is of great significance. At present,
   both environmental monitoring departments and scientific research departments are carrying
   out algae monitoring and research, include identification and enumeration under microscopes.
   In order to obtain the composition and biomass of algae community structure.
        The classical method for algae enumeration under microscopes mainly include the
 5 following procedures:
        Making    Sedgwick-Rafter     slides ->    recognizing    and counting under microscopic
   magnification of 200-500 -> repeating for approximately random 50-100 fields, and recording
   the species names and their numbers in each field -> inputting data into the computer and
   aligning the types of different samples artificially -> calculating conversion rate and conversing
20 the cell numbers into biomass.
        For the classical method, it is time-consuming for technicians inputting the data into
   computer and rearranging data after the counting finished under the microscope. Some
   scientists abroad have developed a software and attempted to improve the efficiency during
   enumeration. The software has the following features:
25      Run the software in a computer and set up shortcuts (or key combination) for different
   species; after a species is found, calculating its number and use the shortcuts (or key
   combination) to record the species' name and its cell numbers.
        Although the software can avoid the trouble in data inputting and biomass calculation, it
   brings other difficulties, for example, there are hundreds and thousands of algae species,
                                                      1

   therefore, thousands of shortcuts or key combinations should be assigned; meanwhile, the
   technicians should further remember the species' names represented by all shortcuts (or key
   combinations). Due to these difficulties, the software is not wildly used.
         Therefore, it is necessary to provide a new system and method for fast algae count data
 5 inputting via speech recognition and data sheet generation.
   Summary of the Invention
         The purpose of the invention is to provide a new system and method for fast algae count
   data inputting via speech recognition and data sheet generation, and provide a solution for
   rapidly inputting algae count results and lightening the workload of technicians maximally.
 0       In order to achieve the purpose, the invention adopts the following technical solution:
         A system and method for algae count data inputting via speech recognition and data sheet
   generation, comprising:
         a voice inputting device; a speech recognition unit; a data comparison unit; a data sheet
   output unit; a data sheet generation unit and an information feedback device. The speech
 5 recognition unit is connected with the voice inputting device; the data comparison unit is
   connected with the speech recognition unit; the data sheet output unit and the data sheet
   generation unit are connected with the data comparison unit respectively; the information
   feedback device is connected with the data comparison unit; the data sheet output unit and the
   data sheet generation unit respectively; the voice inputting device and the information feedback
20 device exist independently.
         As a further improvement of the invention, the data comparison unit comprises a database
   of species' names, a command library and a digit library.
         As a further improvement of the invention, the database of species' names, the command
   library and the digit library could be text files, Excel files, Access database or SQL database.
25       As a further improvement of the invention, the database of species' names comprises
   category information and Latin names of species.
         As a further improvement of the invention, the voice inputting device is a microphone, the
   information feedback device is a loudspeaker, and the microphone and the loudspeaker are
   integrated on PC terminal, or connected to PC by wire or wirelessly.
                                                       2

         As a further improvement of the invention, the data sheet generated by the data sheet
   generation unit is an Excel file, and the Excel file contains sample name, counting method used,
   count data, and other key information.
         A method for algae count data inputting via speech recognition and data sheet generation,
 5 comprising the following steps:
          Si. Manually input key information for each sample, which contains sample names,
   sample date and so on;
          S2. Input speech message including species' name, number of species cells and operation
   command into the voice inputting device;
 0        S3. Recognize speech message by the speech recognition unit, compare the message by the
   data comparison unit; fill the data sheet by the data sheet output unit if the speech message
   contains the species' name and number of cells; judge the operation command as the data sheet
   filling operation command or the end command of this count if the speech message contains the
   operation command, continue to fill out the data sheet information if the speech message
 5 contains the data sheet filling operation command, and generate the data sheet by the data sheet
   generation unit if the speech message contains the end command of this count;
          S4. Feedback the data sheet filling information by the information feedback device.
         As a further improvement of the invention, the data sheet information in the Step Sl
   further comprises sampling time, amplification of microscope, total number of counting visual
 0 fields and information of verifier.
         As a further improvement of the invention, the Step S3 further comprises:
         judging whether the item name in the speech message has been added to the data sheet
   information, if so, filling the data sheet by the data sheet output unit, if not, adding the item
   name to current data sheet information and filling the data sheet by the data sheet output unit.
25       As a further improvement of the invention, the Step S4 comprises:
         Beep once by the information feedback device means that the data comparison unit
   identify the speech message of the speech recognition unit, the data was stored;
         Beep twice by the information feedback device means that the command was executed;
         Beep three times by the information feedback device means that the final report was
30 generated ;
         Beep for 2 seconds by the information feedback device means that speech recognition
                                                      3

   failed, and it is need to read the species' name and cell numbers again.
         The invention has the following beneficial effects:
         1. As the voice inputting device is used to input data, the technicians can avoid
   repeatedly writing the species' names and cell numbers; specifically for the technicians with
 5 high myopia, bend-over action is no longer necessary during counting. It is predicted that
   lightening of labor intensity of the counter during counting can reduce more than 80% of
   workload.
         2. As the database is used to manage the species' name, digits and operation command,
   change of corresponding contents in the database can customize personal habit. For example,
 0 the species' name can be voluntarily added suitable for new-found species; the command code
   also can be modified, for example, the "next field" can be modified according to personal habit
   and pronouncing characteristics.
         3. As a computer is used to input data, the computer can finish the biomass calculation in
   real time in background according to the counting mode set by the technicians, e.g.,
 5 amplification and visual field diameter are previously set, so as to avoid tremendous amount of
   manpower.
         4. As a database is used to manage the counting results and the data sheets with uniform
   formats are generated by the system, the complicated process for manual comparison of species
   can be omitted, and the readability of the data sheets can be increased.
 0       5. As a changeable database of species' names is used, only different databases should be
   selected. Theoretically, other data like data of zooplankton, benthos and bacteria can be input.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
         Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a system and method for algae count data inputting via
   speech recognition and data sheet generation.
25 Embodiments
         The invention will be described in detail in combination with all embodiments shown in
   the figure. These embodiments will not limit the invention. Changes of structures, methods or
   functions of these embodiments made by those of ordinary skill in the art shall fall within the
   protection range of the invention.
30       As shown in Figure 1, a system for algae count data inputting via speech recognition and
   data sheet generation of the invention comprises:
                                                      4

         a voice inputting device 1, a speech recognition unit 2, a data comparison unit 3, a data
   sheet output unit 4, a data sheet generation unit 5 and an information feedback device 6, the
   speech recognition unit 2 is connected with the voice inputting device 1, the data comparison
   unit 3 is connected with the speech recognition unit 2, the data sheet output unit 4 and the data
 5 sheet generation unit 2 are connected with the data comparison unit 3 respectively, the
   information feedback device 6 is connected with the data comparison unit 3, the data sheet
   output unit 4 and the data sheet generation unit 5 respectively, and the voice inputting device
   and the information feedback device exist independently.
         The data comparison unit 3 comprises a prepared database of species' names, a command
 0 library and a digit library. The database can be intentionally modified to promote/expand use of
   the system. The database can be text files or Excel file, Access or SQL database of Microsoft, or
   database products of other companies. The database of species' names comprises category
   information and Latin names of species.
         Furthermore, the voice inputting device 1 and the information feedback device 6 can be a
 5 microphone and a loudspeaker equipped on the computer, or a microphone and loudspeaker
   connected with the computer via wired means, and also can be a microphone and loudspeaker
   connected to the computer via wireless means by technology like Bluetooth.
         The data sheet generation unit 5 can output Excel file directly for single sample, and can
   be stored in the database to uniformly generate Excel file after counting of all samples. Excel
20 files contains sampling name, count data, counting method and other basic information.
         Correspondingly, a method for algae count data inputting via speech recognition and data
   sheet generation specifically comprises the following steps:
         Si. Manually input key information for each sample, which contains species' names;
         S2. Input speech message including species' name, number of species cells and operation
25 command into the voice inputting device;
         S3. Recognize speech message by the speech recognition unit, compare the message by the
   data comparison unit, fill the data sheet by the data sheet output unit if the speech message
   contains the species' name and number of cells, judge the operation command as the data sheet
   filling operation command or the end command of this count if the speech message contains the
30 operation command, continue to fill out the data sheet information if the speech message
                                                     5

   contains the data sheet filling operation command, and generate the data sheet by the data sheet
   generation unit if the speech message contains the end command of this count;
          S4. Feedback the data sheet filling information by the information feedback device.
         The data sheet information in Step SI further comprises sampling time, amplification of
 5 microscope, total number of counting visual fields and information of verifier.
          Step S3 further comprises:
         judging whether the item name in the speech message has been added to the data sheet
   information, if so, filling the data sheet by the data sheet output unit, if not, adding the item
   name to current data sheet information and filling the data sheet by the data sheet output unit.
 0        Step S4 specifically comprises:
         feeding back the first feedback speech by the information feedback device and carrying
   out manual intervention if the data comparison unit cannot identify the speech message of the
   speech recognition unit;
         feeding back the second feedback speech by the information feedback device if the data
 5 sheet is filled by the data sheet output unit;
         feeding back the third feedback speech by the information feedback device if the data
   sheet output unit command is executed;
         feeding back the fourth feedback speech by the information feedback device if the data
   sheet is generated by the data sheet output unit.
 0       The invention will be further described in combination with embodiments.
         At the beginning of work, the system generates a temporary data sheet and starts working
   (Step I in Figure 1) after the technicians inputs the information includes sample names,
   sampling time, amplification used, total number of counting fields, technician names and so on.
   Then clicks "Start counting".
25       In the first field, the technicians only needs to read the species' name and cell numbers in
   order, for example, the counter reads Scenedesmus armatus, pause for a short time period, and
   then read the number of algae such as 5, so the system will divide the signal into the species'
   name and quantity according to the pause. After the species' name is obtained, the system will
   firstly compare with the database of species' names. If the species' name exists in the database,
30 it will be compared with the species' names in the temporary data sheet. If the species is not in
   the temporary form, the species' name will be added to the temporary data sheet and the
   number 5 will be added to the column of quantity. If the species is included in the temporary
   form, the number 5 will be directly added to the column of quantity. The system "beep" once to
                                                       6

   prompt the technicians that new data addition succeeds. If the name does not exist when being
   compared with the database of species' names, the system will judge whether it is a command,
   if not, the system will give out a "beep" for 2 seconds to prompt the technician that comparison
   fails, and manual intervention may be preferred then (for example, repeated data sheeting of
 5 name and quantity, and manual addition of the species' name to the database of species'
   names). After addition of the first species, the technician can read the information of the next
   species, e.g., Ceratium hirundinell and 1, repeatedly read the information of the species until
   counting of the first field is completed.
         At the end of the first field, the technician will read the "next field", and the system will
 0 compare it with the command library, and then enter the next field for counting.
   Simultaneously, the feedback device will beep twice to prompt the counter that the field is
   successfully switched. If the command comparison fails, the system will give out beeps for 2
   seconds to prompt the technician, and so forth (Step II in Figure 1).
         When the counter reads "End counting" or the preset number of fields has been achieved,
 5 the system gives out three beeps to prompt the technician, and the technician will decide to
   count the next sample or directly generate the report.
         If the technician selects to count the next sample, the data of the temporary data sheet will
   be stored in the database until the technician uniformly generates the data sheet (Step III in
   Figure 1).
 0       The report contents should contain the information related to sample name, sampling time
   and technician name.
         As the only simple speech contents including species' name, number of cells and operation
   command can be input into the system via voice inputting device. There is no external
   requirements for the speech recognition technology and device.
25       The feedback sound generated from the information feedback device 6 can be, but not
   limited to "beep" involved in the invention.
         It can be seen from aforesaid technical solution, the invention has the following beneficial
   effects:
         1. As the voice inputting device is used to input data, the technician can avoid repeatedly
30 writing the species' names and cell numbers; specifically for the technicians with high myopia,
   bend-over action is no longer necessary. It is predicted that lightening of labor intensity of the
   counter during counting can reduce more than 80% of workload.
         2. As the database is used to manage the species' name, digits and operation command,
   change of corresponding contents in the database can customize personal habit. For example,
                                                      7

  the species' name can be voluntarily added suitable for new-found species; the command code
  also can be modified, for example, the "next field" can be modified according to personal habit
  and pronouncing characteristics.
       3. As a computer is used to input data, the computer can finish the biomass calculation in
5 real time in background according to the counting mode set by the technicians, e.g.,
  amplification and visual field diameter are previously set, so as to avoid tremendous amount of
  manpower.
       4. As a database is used to manage the counting results and the data sheets with uniform
  formats are generated by the system, the complicated process for manual comparison of species
0 can be omitted, and the readability of the data sheets can be increased.
       5. As a changeable database of species' names is used, only different databases should be
  selected. Theoretically, other data like data of zooplankton, benthos and bacteria can be input.
       It should be understood that the specification is described based on embodiments, but not
  all embodiments contain only one independent technical solution. The description mode of the
5 specification is only for clear expression. Those skilled in the art should regard the
  specification as a whole and the technical solutions in all embodiments also can be
  appropriately combined to form a new embodiment that can be understood by those skilled in
  the art.
       The detailed description listed above is only to specify the feasible embodiment of the
0 invention, but not to limit the protection scope of the invention. Equivalent embodiment or
  change which does not depart from artistic spirit of the invention shall fall within the protection
  scope of the invention.
                                                     8

                                                 Claims
      1.    A system for algae count data inputting via speech recognition and data sheet generation,
characterized in that the system comprises:
      a voice inputting device, a speech recognition unit, a data comparison unit, a data sheet output
unit, a data sheet generation unit and an information feedback device, the speech recognition unit
being connected with the voice inputting device, the data comparison unit being connected with the
speech recognition unit, the data sheet output unit and the data sheet generation unit being connected
with the data comparison unit respectively, the information feedback device being connected with the
data comparison unit, the data sheet output unit and the data sheet generation unit respectively, and
the voice inputting device and the information feedback device existing independently.
      2.    The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the data comparison unit comprises
a database of species' names, a command library and a digit library.
      3.    The system according to claim 2, characterized in that the database of species' names, the
command library and the digit library are text files and Excel files or Access database or SQL
database.
      4.    The system according to claim 2, characterized in that the database of species' names
comprises category information and Latin names of species.
      5.    The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the voice inputting device is a
microphone, the information feedback device is a loudspeaker, and the microphone and the
loudspeaker are integrated on PC terminal, or connected to PC terminal via wired or wireless means.
      6.    The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the data sheet generated by the data
sheet generation unit is an Excel file, and the Excel file contains sample name, verifier and counting
method used.
      7.    A method for algae count data inputting via speech recognition and data sheet generation,
characterized in that the method comprises the following steps:
      Sl. Manually input key information for each sample, which contains species' names;
      S2. Input speech message including species' name, number of species cells and operation
command into the voice inputting device;
      S3. Recognize speech message by the speech recognition unit, compare the message by the data
comparison unit, fill the data sheet by the data sheet output unit if the speech message contains the
                                                    9

species' name and number of cells; judge the operation command as the data sheet filling operation
command or the end command of this count if the speech message contains the operation command,
continue to fill out the data sheet information if the speech message contains the data sheet filling
operation command, and generate the data sheet by the data sheet generation unit if the speech
message contains the end command of this count;
      S4. Feedback the data sheet filling information by the information feedback device.
      8.    The method according to claim 7, characterized in that the data sheet information in the
Step Sl further comprises sampling time, amplification of microscope, total number of counting
visual fields and information of verifier.
      9.    The method according to claim 7,characerized in that the Step S3 further comprises:
      judging whether the item name in the speech message has been added to the data sheet
information, if so, filling the data sheet by the data sheet output unit, if not, adding the item name to
current data sheet information and filling the data sheet by the data sheet output unit.
       10.  The method according to claim 7, characterized in that the Step S4 comprises:
      feeding back the first feedback speech by the information feedback device and carry out manual
intervention if the data comparison unit cannot identify the speech message of the speech
recognition unit;
      feeding back the second feedback speech by the information feedback device if the data sheet is
filled by the data sheet output unit;
      feeding back the third feedback speech by the information feedback device if the command is
executed by the data sheet output unit;
      feeding back the fourth feedback speech by the information feedback device if the data sheet is
generated by the data sheet output unit.
                                                     10

<removed-date>
                                                                                                                          Manually complete sample name, etc.
                                          Microphone                                         Species
                                                              Operation Cell
                                                                                             name                                                                         Louds
                                                              command numbers
                                                                                                                                                                          peaker
                                                         Speech recognition unit
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                              Fail to identify feedback, and "beep" for 2s
                                               Data comparison unit (database of species’ names,
                                               command library and digit library)
                                                                                                 If it is species’ name           Whether it has been          No
                                                                                                                                                                             Add to current
                                                                                                                                  included in the current                    data sheet
                                                                                                                                  data sheet
                                                               Data sheet output operation
              End command of this count
                                                                                                                                              Yes
                                                                                             If it is a digit
                                                                                                                             Data sheet output unit
                                                                       command
                                                                                                                                                Complete filling and "beep" once
                                                                                                                                              Execute the command and "beep" twice
                                                       Data sheet generation unit                                                             Generate the data sheet and "beep" three times
                                                                                                                 Figure 1
                                                                                                                          1/1

