SAFETY CATCH
ABSTRACT
A safety mechanism adapted to be releasably securable to a turntable coupling of a vehicle, the
safety mechanism including: at least one base member adapted in use to connect to the turntable
coupling; a catch adapted in use to pivot between a first position and a second position to secure
a kingpin of a trailer, wherein the catch is pivotally connected to the at least one base member;
and a lever connected to the at least one base member, wherein the lever has a longitudinal axis
of rotation, such that when the lever is rotated about the axis of rotation, the catch pivots
between the first position and the second position.

        2/4
           25
H             3/
      $92
        20
  42 IC

                                                        1
SAFETY CATCH
Field
[0001] This invention relates to the transport of goods and in particular to a safety catch for a
turntable coupling on a truck.
Background
[0002] Sections of articulated vehicles such as a truck trailer are usually coupled to a truck
which normally includes a turntable coupling that receives a kingpin. Drivers of the vehicle
follow specific safety procedures set out in their jurisdiction when connecting the vehicle to the
trailer via the turntable coupling. The typical safety procedure includes a visual check that the
kingpin has been appropriately captured and by the turntable coupling and a functional check or
a tug test (usually three) to ensure that the turntable jaws are locked onto the kingpin. On a
typical articulated vehicle, the only connection between the turntable coupling and the trailer is
through the kingpin. Therefore, if the locking mechanism fails due to a worn or broken
component, or if the locking mechanism was improperly latched, the trailer may separate from
the turntable coupling (front of the truck) when the driver accelerates with the load, or worse,
when the driver is towing the trailer at speed around a corner. This is obviously an extremely
dangerous situation where the trailer breaks away from the vehicle and cannot be controlled. In
this situation property damage and injuries or death to bystanders is likely to occur.
[0003] Between 20<removed-date>, there were 23 fatalities and many more incidences or near
misses in Queensland, Australia where a worker was crushed or hit by a heavy vehicle or trailer
because it was not effectively immobilised.1 A number of these incidences were the result of
trailers not being coupled or decoupled correctly and resulted in the trailer disconnecting from
the turntable coupling during use.
I          Work Safe <https://www.worksafe.qld.gov.au/laws-and-compliance/compliance-and
enforcement/industry-interventions-and-campaigns/transport-and-storage/safely-immobilising-heavy-vehicles-and
trailers>.

                                                   2
[0004] Furthermore, dropped trailers will more than likely result in the damage of goods within
the trailer which will disappoint customers of the trucking business.
[0005] Despite the rigorous procedures in coupling and decoupling trailers that drivers follow,
there remains a need to reduce the number of dropped trailers. One solution to satisfy this need
is a safety latch to prevent unwanted separation between the vehicle and the trailer. Previous
safety latches however are complicated in their function and more moving parts typically results
in reduced reliability despite the improved convenience for the user. Furthermore, previous
safety latches generally do not comply with the safety regulations set by some jurisdictions (for
example, the Australian Design Rules).
[0006] Another disadvantage of previous safety latches is that they require modification of the
existing turntable coupling which would typically result in voiding the warranty of the turntable
due to welding.
[0007] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least ameliorate
one or more of the above disadvantages.
Summary of Invention
[0008] An embodiment of the present invention relates to a safety mechanism adapted to be
releasably securable to a turntable coupling of a vehicle, the safety mechanism including:
         at least one base member adapted in use to connect to the turntable coupling;
         a catch adapted in use to pivot between a first position and a second position to secure a
kingpin of a trailer, wherein the catch is pivotally connected to the at least one base member;
and
         a lever connected to the at least one base member, wherein the lever has a longitudinal
axis of rotation, such that when the lever is rotated about the axis of rotation, the catch pivots
between the first position and the second position.
[0009] Preferably, the safety mechanism includes two base members.
[00010] Preferably, the two base members are connected to the turntable coupling using
countersunk fasteners.

                                                 3
[0010] Preferably, the lever has a projection to move the catch between the first position and the
second position, when the lever is rotated about the axis of rotation.
[0011] Preferably, the catch is evenly weighted and unbiased to move between the first position
or the second position.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0012] Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[0013] Figure 1 is a perspective view of an embodiment of the safety mechanism.
[0014] Figure 2 is a top view of the safety mechanism according to the embodiment shown in
Figure 1.
[0015] Figure 3 is a bottom view of the safety mechanism according to the embodiment shown
in Figure 1.
[0016] Figure 4 is a perspective view showing the underside of the safety mechanism according
to the embodiment shown in Figure 1.
[0017] Figure 5 is a detailed view of the safety mechanism according to Figure 1 shown
mounted to a turntable coupling.
[0018] Figure 6 is a detailed view of the safety mechanism mounted to a turntable coupling
shown from a different perspective of Figure 5.
Description of Embodiments
[0019] Figures 1 to 6 show an embodiment of a safety mechanism 10 adapted to be secured to a
turntable coupling 51 of a towing vehicle 50 such as a truck. The safety mechanism 10 may
have at least one base member; however this embodiment shows the safety mechanism 10
having a first base member 11 and a second base member 12. The first and second base
members 11, 12 have openings 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18.

                                                   4
[0020] In between the first and second base members 11, 12 is a catch 20 which has a channel
that is tapered as shown in Figures 1, 2, 5 and 6. The catch 20 has a top surface 21 and a bottom
surface 22. Best shown in Figures 3 and 4 is a hinge 40, which connects the first and second
base members 11, 12 to the catch 20. The hinge 40 also has a stop 41.
[0021] The safety mechanism 10 includes a lever 30 which is parallel to the hinge 40. The lever
30 also has a handle 31 and a projection 32, most easily seen in Figures 3 and 4. The lever 30
has a longitudinal axis and is connected to the first and second base members 11, 12 and serves
to move or pivot the catch 20 between a first position and a second position via projection 32.
[0022] Use of the invention will now be described.
[0023] The safety mechanism 10 is releasably secured to a turntable coupling 51 of a towing
vehicle 50 using countersunk fasteners (not depicted). The countersunk fasteners are threaded
through the turntable coupling 51 and into the openings 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 of the first and
second base members 11, 12. As exemplified in Figures 5 and 6, the safety mechanism 10 is
releasably secured to the underside of the turntable coupling 51.
[0024] The towing vehicle 50 is aligned with a semi-trailer (not depicted) such that a king pin of
the semi-trailer is in fastenable alignment with a keyhole 52 of the turntable coupling 51 in the
usual manner known to those skilled in the art. The towing vehicle 50 is then reversed toward
the king pin of the semi-trailer with the catch 20 in a first position. The first position is best
shown in Figure 6, which depicts the catch 20 angled upwardly with respect to the turntable
coupling 51. As the towing vehicle 50 is reversed closer to the semi-trailer, the king pin will
make contact with surface 21 of the catch 20, if aligned properly or accurately. As the catch 20
is pivotable between the first position and a second position, the king pin will move or pivot the
catch 20 to the second position (i.e. angled downwardly relative to the turntable coupling 51) as
it passes over the catch 20 and into the keyhole 52.
[0025] As known to those skilled in the art, a visual inspection of the king pin is required to
assess if the king pin is secured safely in the keyhole 52. During this safety check, the lever 30 is
rotated about its axis of rotation using handle 31. Rotation of the lever will bring the catch 20
back to the first position via projection 32. If the king pin is not secured by the turntable
coupling 51 and slips out of the keyhole 52 during use, the safety mechanism will serve to

                                                    5
prevent the king pin from moving through the keyhole 52 and the semi-trailer from completely
falling off the towing vehicle 50.
[0026] When the semi-trailer needs to be released from the towing vehicle 50, the turntable
coupling 51 is disengaged from the king pin in the usual manner known to those skilled in the
art. The lever 30 is rotated via handle 31 such that the catch 20 is angled downwardly toward the
turntable coupling 51, known as the second position as described above. This will allow the king
pin to pass over the catch 20, making contact with surface 21 on its way through. Once the king
pin passes over the catch 20, the catch 20 will pivot back to the first position, ready for another
trailer to be coupled to the turntable coupling.
[0027] The catch 20 is evenly weighted and unbiased to move between the first position and/or
the second position. That is, the catch 20 will not return to either of the first or second positions
without an input through the lever 30.
[0028] Although the safety mechanism has been described with reference to preferred
embodiments, it will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the invention can be
embodied in other forms. For example, in an alternative embodiment (not depicted), the hinge
40 and lever 30 may be combined as one unit such the catch 20 is directly driven by the hinge
40. It is envisaged that outer portions of the lever would be free to pivot relative to the hinge and
base member, whilst the center portion of the lever would be secured to the middle of the hinge,
which would directly pivot the catch between the first and second positions.
[0029] In another alternative embodiment, instead of two base members 11, 12, a single U
shaped based member could be used. The catch 20 would be connected to the outer segments of
the "U" in the manner described above.
[0030] In another alternative embodiment, the catch may be biased such that it returns to the
first position after it is pivoted to the second position.
[0031] Advantages of the present invention will now be described.
[0032] As the safety mechanism is releasably secured to the turntable coupling using
countersunk fasteners, the safety mechanism satisfies many safety regulations (such as the

                                                  6
Australian Design Rules). Using an alternative fastening means such as welding will fail safety
regulations in many jurisdictions.
[0033] Another advantage of the present invention is the minimal use of moving parts. There are
no springs or cam mechanisms which inevitably wear prematurely. The lever and hinge allow
for reliable and prolonged use of the safety mechanism.
[0034] The present invention protects the safety of drivers, staff, customers and the public; and
prevents damage to trucks, equipment and customer loads.
[0035] Although the invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments, it
will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many
other forms.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

CLAIMS
    1. A safety mechanism adapted to be releasably securable to a turntable coupling of a
          vehicle, the safety mechanism including:
                at least one base member adapted in use to connect to the turntable coupling;
                a catch adapted in use to pivot between a first position and a second position to
          secure a kingpin of a trailer, wherein the catch is pivotally connected to the at least one
          base member; and
                a lever connected to the at least one base member, wherein the lever has a
          longitudinal axis of rotation, such that when the lever is rotated about the axis of
          rotation, the catch pivots between the first position and the second position.
2.     The safety mechanism of claim 1, wherein there are two base members.
3.     The safety mechanism of claim 2, wherein the base members are connected to the
turntable coupling using countersunk fasteners.
4.     The safety mechanism of claim 3, wherein the lever has a projection to move the catch
between the first position and the second position, when the lever is rotated about the axis of
rotation.
5.     The safety mechanism of claim 4, wherein the catch is evenly weighted and unbiased to
move between the first position or the second position.
                                     MKD Transcorp Pty Ltd
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
