H:\amt\Intenvoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AM'624601-I.DOC-24/03/2014
                                                          ABSTRACT
The invention is directed to T cell epitopes wherein said epitopes comprises a peptide or
polypeptide chain comprising at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant or variable
region. The invention also relates to methods of using and methods of making the
epitopes of the invention.

H:\amt\Lnterwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AMT\16084189_ .DOC-29/11/2017
            REGULATORY T CELL EPITOPES, COMPOSITIONS AND USES THEREOF
     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                     The invention relates generally to a novel class of T cell epitope
     compositions (termed "Tregitopes"). The invention provides Tregitope
     compositions, methods for their preparation and use.
                This is a divisional of Australian patent application No. <removed-apn>, which in turn
       is a divisional of 2014201846, which in turn is a divisional of 2008211227, the entire
       contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
     BACKGROUND
                    Artificial induction of tolerance to self or to foreign antigens is the goal of
     therapy for autoimmunity, transplantation allergy and other diseases, and is also
     desirable in the context of therapy with autologous proteins and non-autologous
     proteins. Until recently, therapeutic tolerance induction relied on broad-based
     approaches that resulted in cellular depletion and cytokine profile alteration. These
     broad-based approaches weaken the immune system in general and leave many
     subjects vulnerable to opportunistic infections, autoimmune attack and cancer.
     There is a need in the art for less aggressive and more targeted approaches to the
     induction of immune tolerance.
                    Immune tolerance is regulated by a complex interplay between T cells,
     B cells, cytokines and surface receptors. Initial self/non-self discrimination occurs
     in the thymus during neonatal development where medullary epithelial cells express
     specific self protein epitopes to immature T cells. T cells recognizing self antigens
     with high affinity are deleted, but autoreactive T cells with moderate affinity
     sometimes avoid deletion and can be converted to so called 'natural' regulatory
     T cells (TR.g) cells. These natural TReg cells are exported to the periphery and
     provide for constant suppression of autoimmunity.
                    A second form of tolerance occurs in the periphery where mature T cells are
     converted to an 'adaptive' TReg phenotype upon activation via their T cell receptor in
     the presence of IL-10 and TGF-fi. The possible roles for these 'adaptive' TRq cells
     include dampening immune response following the successful clearance of an
     invading pathogen as a means of controlling excessive inflammation as might be
     caused by an allergic reaction or low level chronic infection, or possibly to facilitate
     co-existence with beneficial symbiotic bacteria and viruses. 'Adaptive' TReg may
     also play a role in managing the life cycle of human antibodies that have undergone
     somatic hypermutation.
                                                             1

     WO 2008/094538                                                            PCT/US2008/001148
                  Natural regulatory T cells are a critical component of immune regulation in
         the periphery. Upon activation through their TCR natural Tregs are capable of
         suppressing bystander effector T cell responses to unrelated antigens through
         contact dependent and independent mechanisms. In addition the cytokines
   5     released by these cells including IL-10 and TGF-p, are capable of inducing antigen
         specific adaptive Tregs. Despite extensive efforts, with few exceptions, the antigen
         specificity of natural Tregs, and more importantly natural Tregs circulating in
        clinically significant volumes, is still unknown.
                 There is need in the art for the identification of regulatory T cell epitopes
  10    contained in common autologous proteins such as igG ("Tregitopes") and for
        methods for related to their preparation and of use.
        SUMMARY
                 The present invention harnesses the functions of regulatory T cells (TReg),
        particularly those cells that already regulate immune responses to foreign and self
  15    proteins in the periphery (pre-existing or natural TReg). In one aspect, the invention
        provides T-cell epitope polypeptide compositions.
                 The selective engagement and activation of pre-existing natural Treg
        through the use of Tregitopes and Tregitope-antigen fusions, is therapeutically
        valuable as a means of treatment for any disease or condition marked by the
 20     presence of an unwanted immune response. Examples include the following:
        Autoimmune disease such as type 1 diabetes, MS, Lupus, and RA; Transplant
        related disorders such as Graft vs. Host disease (GVHD); Allergic reactions;
        Immune rejection of biologic medicines such as monoclonal antibodies,
        replacement proteins such as FVIII or Insulin, the use of therapeutic toxins such as
 25     Botulinum toxin; and the management of immune response to infectious disease
       whether acute or chronic.
                 In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to a T-cell epitope
        polypeptide composition comprising at least one polypeptide selected from the
       group consisting of: SEQ ID NOS:4-58. In a particular embodiment, the invention is
 30    directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a polypeptide of the invention
       and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
                 In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to a nucleic acid
       encoding at least one T-cell epitope polypeptide selected from the group consisting
       of: SEQ ID NOS:4-58. In a particular embodiment, the invention is directed to a
BOST 299675.1                                        2

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
         vector comprising a nucleic acid of the invention. In another embodiment, the
         invention is directed to a cell comprising a vector of the invention.
                   In one embodiment, the invention is directed to a method of treating or
         preventing a medical condition in a subject in need thereof comprising
   5     administering a therapeutically effective amount of a T-cell epitope polypeptide
        selected from the group consisting of: SEQ ID NOS:4-58. In a particular
        embodiment, the medical condition is selected from the group consisting of: an
        allergy, an autoimmune disease, a transplant related disorder, graft versus host
        disease, an enzyme or protein deficiency disorder, a hemostatic disorder, cancer,
  10    infertility; and a viral, bacterial or parasitic infection.
                   In one embodiment, the invention is directed to a kit for preventing or
        treating a medical condition in a subject, wherein the kit comprises at least one T
        cell epitope polypeptide selected from the group consisting of: SEQ ID NOS:4-58.
                  In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to a method for
  15    expanding a population of regulatory T cells, comprising: (a) providing a biological
        sample from a subject; and (b) isolating regulatory T-cells from the biological
        sample; and contacting the isolated regulatory T-cells with an effective amount of a
        Tregitope composition of the invention under conditions wherein the T-regulatory
        cells increase in number to yield an expanded regulatory T-cell composition,
 20    thereby expanding the regulatory T-cells in the biological sample.
                  In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to a method for
       stimulating regulatory T cells in a biological sample, comprising: (a) providing a
       biological sample from a subject; (b) isolating regulatory T-cells from the biological
       sample; and contacting the isolated regulatory T-cells with an effective amount of a
 25    Tregitope composition of the invention under conditions wherein the T-regulatory
       cells are stimulated to alter one or more biological function, thereby stimulating the
       regulatory T-cells in the biological sample.
                  In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to a method for
       repressing immune response in a subject, comprising administering a composition
 30    comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a peptide comprising a Tregitope to
       the subject, wherein the peptide represses the immune response. In a particular
       embodiment, the peptide suppresses effector T cell response. In a particular
       embodiment, the peptide suppresses helper T cell response. In another
       embodiment, the peptide suppresses B cell response.
BOST299675.1                                           3

     WO 2008/094538                                                         PCT/US2008/001148
                   In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to a method of
          suppressing antigen specific immune response in a subject through the
          administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising
          one or more Tregitopes, wherein the one or more Tregitopes are either covalently
   5      bound, non-covalently bound or in admixture with a specific target antigen resulting
          in the diminution of immune response against the target antigen. In a particular
          embodiment, the suppressive effect is mediated by natural Treg. In another
         embodiment, the suppressive effect is mediated by adaptive Treg. In another
         embodiment, the peptide suppresses effector T cell response. In another
  10     embodiment, the peptide suppresses helper T cell response. In another
         embodiment, the peptide suppresses B cell response. In a particular embodiment,
         the peptide comprises a sequence selected from the group consisting of: SEQ ID
         NOS:4-58.
                  In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to a method for
  15     enhancing the immunogenicity of a vaccine delivery vector, comprising identification
         and removal of regulatory T cell epitopes. In a particular embodiment, the T cell
         epitopes are selected from the group consisting of: SEQ ID NOS:4-58.
         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                  FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram of immunoglobulin G (IgG).
 20               FIG. 2 is a series of graphical representations comparing capped and
         uncapped peptides. PBMC were stimulated in culture for 8 days with either CEF
         (positive control peptide pool) alone (top panels), CEF + Tregitope 289-amide
        (middle panels), or CEF + Tregitope-289-uncapped (bottom panels). As compared
        to incubation with CEF alone, co-incubation of CEF with Tregitope-289-amide 1)
 25     resulted in a higher percentage of cells that had a regulatory phenotype (left panel)
        and 2) resulted in an associated significant (p < 0.0005) decrease in the interferon
        gamma secretion in response to CEF restimulation (right panel). By contrast, co
        incubation with Tregitope 289-uncapped (bottom panels) resulted in no significant
        difference relative to incubation with CEF alone (top panels).
 30               FIG. 3 shows activation of natural Tregs in the presence of Tregitope.
        Human PBMCs were stimulated directly in vitro for four days in the presence of
        tetanus toxin peptide (TT83o-44), Tregitope or no stimulus. Cells were stained
        extracellularly with anti-CD4 and anti-CD25 and then intracellularly with FoxP3, and
        analyzed by flow cytometry. Incubation with Tregitope increased the percentage of
BOST_299675.1                                        4

      WO 2008/094538                                                         PCT/US2008/001148
          C04+CD25+Foxp3+ T cells (53.6% of 644 cells) as compared to TT8 30       8.4 4 (12.5% of
          745 cells) or no stimulus (19.5% of 497 cells).
                  FIG. 4 is a series of bar graphs showing Tregitope induces an up-regulation
          of T-regulatory cytokines and chemokines and down-regulation of T-effector
    5     cytokines and chemokines. Responses to C3d restimulation following initial
         stimulation with a) a pool of immunogenic peptides derived from C3d protein (black
          bars); b) C3d peptides + Tregitope-167 (light grey bars) or c) C3d peptides +
         Tregitope 134 (medium grey bars). Responses are shown as fold increase over
         background, which was no stimulus (control) in the secondary incubation. The
  10     respective baseline (background) values in pg/ml are indicated within the x-axis
         labels. There was no significant difference in levels of IL-4, TNFa or TGFp1
                  FIG. 5 is a series of bar graphs showing responses to C3d peptide
         restimulation following initial stimulation with a) a pool of immunogenic peptides
         derived from C3d protein (black bars) or b) C3d peptides + Tregitope-289 (light grey
  15     bars). Responses are shown as fold increase over background, which was no
        stimulus (control) in the secondary incubation. For each cytokine, baseline (no re
        stimulus, background) values are shown within the x-axis labels.
                 FIG. 6 is a bar graph showing co-stimulation with epitopes derived from
        TSHR, the target antigen of Graves' disease, suppresses immune response to the
  20    epitopes in PBMC from a patient with Graves' disease. PBMC from a patient with
        Graves' disease were first incubated for 8 days with either 1) a pool of TSHR
        peptides alone or 2) a pool of TSHR peptides and a pool of Tregitope-1 34,
        Tregitope-167, and Tregitope-289. Cells were then harvested, washed and
        incubated (in IL-4 ELISpot plates as described) with 1) individual TSHR peptides
 25     and the Tregitope pool or 2) the pool of TSHR peptides and the Tregitope pool. A
        "no restimulus" control was also plated. Responses are shown relative to
        restimulation with no antigen. Black bars correspond to incubations and
        restimulations done with antigen alone, grey bars correspond to incubations and
        restimulations with antigen + the Tregitope pool. In this experiment the Tregitope
 30    co-incubation suppressed response to individual TSHR peptides by 35 % to 67%
       and suppressed the response to the pool of TSHR peptides by 65%. P values for
       pairwise comparisons are shown.
                 FIG. 7 is a bar graph showing average response of three subjects in
       response to a commercially available pool of positive control peptides (CEF)
 35    following an eight day incubation with one of the following: CEF alone, CEF +
BOST_299675.1                                        5

     WO 2008/094538                                                        PCT/US2008/001148
         Tregitope-289, CEF + Tregitope 294, CEF + Tregitope-029, CEF + Tregitope-074,
         or CEF + Tregitope-009. Responses to CEF are suppressed by 29 to 48%
         depending on the individual Tregitope used. Baseline responses to CEF (in the
         samples previously incubated to CEF alone) ranged from 1404 to 10139 IFN-y
   5     SFC/million PBMC over background (background is no restimulus). P values for
         pairwise comparisons are shown.
                 FIG. 8 is a bar graph showing co-incubation with Tregitope suppresses
         immune response to peptide epitopes derived from Botulinum neurotoxin.
         Peripheral blood was drawn from a subject with evidence of anti-BoNT/A
  10     antibodies. PBMC were first incubated for eight days with either a pool of BoNT/A
         peptides alone or pool of BoNT/A peptides + a pool of Tregitopes (Tregitope-1 34,
        Tregitope-167, and Tregitope-289). Cells were then harvested, washed and then
         incubated (in IFN-y ELISpot plates) with BoNT/A peptides individually in triplicate
        and in a pool in triplicate. Responses are shown relative to re-stimulation with no
  15    antigen. Black bars correspond to incubations with antigen alone, grey bars
        correspond to incubations with antigen + the pool of Tregitopes. The response to
        BoNT/A was suppressed by 26% to 73%; the response to the pool of BoNT/A
        peptides was suppressed by 59%. P values for pairwise comparisons are shown.
                FIG. 9 is a series of graphs showing Tregitope-289 and Tregitope-134
 20     down-regulate proliferation in response to co-administered immunodominant
        antigens in vitro. PBMCs were isolated from a blood bank donor and stimulated for
        eight days with CEF alone, CEF + Tregitope-134 or CEF + Tregitope-289. Co
        incubation with either of the two Tregitopes lead to a decrease in response to CEF
        as measured by IFN-y ELISA (left panel) and to a decrease in proliferation as
 25     measured by CFSE Fluorescence (right panel) (grey shaded refers to the
        suppressed responses with antigen-Tregitope co-incubation; the black refers to
        baseline responses following incubation with antigen alone).
                FIG. 10 is a plot showing response to vaccinia peptide. PBMCs were
        isolated from a blood bank donor and stimulated for eight days with CEF alone,
 30     CEF + Tregitope-1 34 or CEF + Tregitope-289. Co-incubation with either of the two
       Tregitopes led to a decrease in response to CEF as measured by IFN-y ELISA (left
        panel) and to a decrease in proliferation as measured by CFSE Fluorescence (right
        panel). Grey shaded refers to the suppressed responses with antigen-Tregitope
       co-incubation; the black refers to baseline responses following incubation with
 35    antigen alone.
BOST 299675.1                                      6

     WO 2008/094538                                                         PCT/US2008/001148
                  FIG. 11 is a series of graphs showing Tregitope suppression is mediated by
         cells with a regulatory phenotype. Tregitope suppression is dependent on CD4+
         CD25Hi T cells. Left panel: PBMC from allergic individuals were stained with anti
         CD4 and anti-CD25 antibodies and analyzed by flow cytometry. The CD4+CD25Hi
   5     subset (gate) was depleted from the remaining PBMC. Center panel: CD4+CD25Hi
         depleted and non-depleted PBMC were co-stimulated HDM lysate with or without
         Tregitope-289. CD4+CD25Hi depleted PBMC were less able to suppress IFN-y
         than non-depleted PBMC. Right panel: co-incubation of HDM lysate and
         Tregitope-289 leads to decreased proliferation of CD4+ cells in response to HDM
  10     lysate stimulus.
                  FIG. 12 is a plot and graph showing expansion of TReg (CD4/CD25 Hi)
         correlates with IL-10 secretion. The expansion of CD4 CD25hi T cells following co
         incubation with Tregitope-289 and HDM; and the amount of IL-10 secreted by the
         co-incubated cells following restimulation with HDM alone. Results for co
 15      incubation with Tregitope-167 are similar: increase from 1.67% to 7.5%
        CD4/CD25hi cells and a five-fold increase in IL-10 secretion.
                  FIG. 13 is a series of graphs and plots showing Tregitope co-incubation
        causes suppression of antigen-specific allergic Th2 response. Co-culture with
        Tregitope and Bet v 1141-155 allergen causes a shift from Th2 effector to Th1/TReg.
 20     PBMC from three birch-tree-pollen-allergic subjects were co-stimulated with Bet v
        1141-155 peptide with or without Tregitope-167. Ten day Tregitope co-stimulation
        led to a decrease in IL-5 secretion (lower left panel) and to a decrease in Th2
        associated surface markers (top panel) by Bet v 1144-155 tetramer positive CD4+
        cells. Prolonged culture (30 days, lower right panel) led to a significant shift from
 25     Th2 (IL-5) to Thi (IFN-y) in Bet v 1144-155-specific cells.
                 FIG. 14 is a graph showing Tregitope co-administration causes suppression
        of effector responses to co-administered protein therapeutic in vivo. ANTIGEN-XX
        (see Example 5A) immunization alone (black bars) provokes a robust response by
        both IL-4 (left bars in pair, left axis) and anti-ANTIGEN-XX antibody titers (right bars
 30     in pair, right axis). These responses are both halved (grey bars) when ANTIGEN
       XX is co-administered with the murine homologues of Tregitope-167 and
       Tregitope-106. Responses to ANTIGEN-XX in sham-immunized animals are
       negative as expected. Responses by Antibody (right bars in pair) and IL-4 ELISpot
       (left bars in pair) are correlated.
BOST_299675.1                                         7

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
                  FIG. 15 is a graph showing IL-4 and antibody responses to house mite
          lysate (HDML) and dust mite antigen. HDML immunization (black bars) provokes a
          robust response by both IL-4 (Left bars in pair, left axis) and anti HDM Antigen
         antibody titers (Right bars in each pair, right axis). These responses are both
   5      halved (grey bars) when HDML is co-administered with the murine homologue of
         Tregitope-289. Responses to HDML in sham-immunized animals are negative as
         expected. Responses by Antibody (right bars in pair) and IL-4 ELISpot (left bars in
         pair) are correlated. These graphs show 38% suppression in vivo in DM naive mice
         and 84% percent in the case of pre-sensitized mice. See Example 5B.
  10              FIG. 16 is a bar graph showing in vivo suppression of T effector response to
         immunogenic peptide therapeutic ("IPT") by Tregitope co-administration. HLA DR4
         Tg mice were dosed three times subcutaneously with IPT alone or IPT + murine
         FC, or IPT+Tregitope-289 (murine homologue). One week following the last dose,
         the mice were sacrificed and splenocytes were stimulated with the immunogenic
  15     peptide therapeutic in a 48hr IL-4 ELISpot assy. Co-administration of immunogenic
         protein therapeutic with either Fc or Tregitope-289 lead to a significant reduction in
         IL-4 spot-forming cells. See Example 5C.
         DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                                                 General
  20             The adaptive immune cascade begins when soluble protein antigens are
        taken up by Antigen Presenting Cells (APCs) and processed through the Class 11
        antigen presentation pathway. Protein antigens in the Class 11presentation
        pathway are degraded by various proteases found in the Endoplasmic Reticulum.
        Some of the resulting protein fragments are bound to Class Il MHC molecules.
 25     Peptide-loaded MHC molecules are trafficked to the cell surface where they are
        interrogated by CD4+ T cells. Peptide fragments that are capable of binding to an
        MHC molecule and mediating the cell to cell interaction between APC and
        circulating T cells are referred to as T cell epitopes. Recognition of these peptide
        MHC complexes by CD4+ T cells can lead to either an immune activating or
 30     immune suppressive response based on the phenotype of the responding T cells
        and the local cytokine/chemokine milieu. In general, engagement between the
        MHC/peptide complex and the T cell receptor (TCR) of T effector cells leads to
        activation and the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-4, and IFN-y.
        On the other hand the activation of natural T regulatory cells (TReg) leads to the
 35    expression of the immune suppressive cytokines IL-10 and TGF-p, among others
BOST_299675.1                                        8

     WO 2008/094538                                                            PCT/JUS2008/001148
           (Shevach, E., Nat. Rev. Immunol., 2:389-400, 2002). These cytokines act directly
          on nearby effector T cells leading in some cases to anergy or apoptosis. In other
          cases regulatory cytokines and chemokines convert effector T cells to T regulatory
          phenotypes; this process is referred here as "induced" or "adaptive" tolerance. T
   5      cell epitopes that are capable of binding to MHC molecules and engaging and
          activating circulating Treg are referred to as Tregitopes.
                   Initial self/non-self discrimination occurs in the thymus during neonatal
          development where medullary epithelial cells express specific self protein epitopes
          to immature T cells. T cells recognizing self antigens with high affinity are deleted,
  10      but autoreactive T cells with moderate affinity sometimes avoid deletion and can be
          converted to so called natural regulatory T cells (TReg) cells. These natural TReg
          cells are exported to the periphery and provide for constant suppression of
         autoimmunity. Natural regulatory T cells are a critical component of immune
         regulation and self tolerance.
  15               Self tolerance is regulated by a complex interplay between T cells, B cells,
         cytokines and surface receptors. T regulatory immune responses counterbalance T
         effector immune response to protein antigens (whether self or foreign). A tilt of the
         balance toward the autoreactive side, either by increasing the number or function of
         autoreactive T effector cells or by diminishing the number or function of T regulatory
 20      cells, is manifested as autoimmunity.
                  A second form of tolerance occurs in the periphery where mature T cells are
         converted to an 'adaptive' TReg phenotype upon activation via their T cell receptor
         in the presence of IL-10 and TGF-p, usually supplied by bystander T regulatory
         cells. The possible roles for these 'adaptive' TReg cells include dampening
 25      immune response following the successful clearance of an invading pathogen as a
         means of controlling excessive inflammation as might be caused by an allergic
        reaction or low level chronic infection, or possibly to facilitate co-existence with
        beneficial symbiotic bacteria and viruses. 'Adaptive' TReg may also play a role in
        managing the life cycle of human antibodies that have undergone somatic
 30     hypermutation.
                  It is thought the constant region of immunoglobulin contains several
        important Tregitopes whose primary function is to suppress immune response to
        hypermutated CDRs. Due to the high volumes of circulating IgG it is likely that
        there are also high volumes of T regulatory cells corresponding to the Tregitopes
 35     contained in IgG. As a partial proof of this assertion consider that chimeric proteins
BOST.299675.1                                           9

     WO 2008/094538                                                            PCT/US2008/001148
         comprising an Fc portion of an immunoglobulin bestow several desirable properties
         on a chimeric protein including increased stability, increased serum half life, binding
         to Fc receptors, and reduced immunogenicity (Lei, T. et al., Cell. Immunol., 235:12
         20, 2005, Baxevanis, C. et al., Eur. J. Immunol., 16:1013-1016, 1986).
   5              TReg cells are also instrumental in B cell tolerance. B cells express a single
         low affinity Fc receptor, FcyRIlB on their cell surface (Ravetch, J. et al., Science,
         234:718-725, 1986). This receptor contains the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based
         inhibition motif sequence (ITIM) in its cytoplasmic domain. Co-ligation of FCyRIlB
         and the BCR by immune complexes act to trigger the tyrosine phosphorylation of
  10    the ITIM leading to the recruitment of the inositol phosphatase, SHIP, which inhibits
         BCR-triggered proliferation by interfering with the activation of MAP kinases and
        blocks phagocytosis by the dissociation of Burton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) from the
        cell membrane, which inhibits calcium influx into the cell. FcyRIIB can also induce
        apoptosis independent of the ITIM. Upon homo-aggregation of FcRIlB by ICs, the
  15    association of Btk with the cell membrane is enhanced triggering an apoptotic
        response (Pearse, R. et al., Immunity, 10:753-760, 1999). Expression of FcyRIlB is
        highly variable and cytokine dependent. IL-4 and IL-10, which are expressed by
        activated Th2 and TReg cells, have been shown to act synergistically to enhance
        FcyRIIB expression (Joshi, T. et al., Mol. Immunol., 43:839-850, 2006) thus aiding
 20     in the suppression of a humoral response.
                  It is possible to exploit Tregitope specific TReg cells to suppress unwanted
        immune responses and to induce adaptive TReg to co-delivered proteins. This
        discovery has implications for the design of therapeutic regimens and antigen
        specific therapies for transplantation, protein therapeutics, allergy, chronic infection,
 25     autoimmunity and vaccine design. Administration of a drug, a protein, or an
        allergen in conjunction with Tregitope can suppress effector immune response.
       Tregitope can be used to deliberately manipulate the immune system toward
       tolerance.
                 The peptides of the current invention are useful in the selective engagement
 30    and activation of regulatory T cells, It is demonstrated herein that certain pre
       existing populations of regulatory T cells can be engaged, activated and applied to
       the suppression of unwanted immune responses in both systemic and limited,
       disease specific, contexts.
BOST_299675.1                                         10

     WO 2008/094538                                                          PCT/US2008/001148
                 Despite extensive efforts, with few exceptions, the antigen specificity of
         natural Tregs, and more importantly natural Tregs circulating in clinically significant
         volumes, is unknown. Presented herein is a demonstration that certain human
         proteins circulating in the blood steam, such as immunoglobulins or the serum
   5     protein Albumin, contain T cell epitopes that relate to naturally occurring
         populations of regulatory T cells. In the course of normal immune surveillance
        these proteins are taken up by professional APC such as dendritic cells or
        macrophages and degraded. During the degradation process some of the epitopes
        contained in these proteins are bound to MHC molecules, transported to the cell
  10    surface presented to regulatory T cells. Those cells, once activated by the APC,
        release cytokines and chemokines help to suppress autoimmune responses that
        would otherwise hinder the function of the extra cellular proteins.
                 By using the peptides of the invention to selectively activate these pre
        existing regulatory T cells, it is herein shown that the peptides of the invention can
  15    be used to suppress a variety of unwanted immune responses. In its simplest form
        systemic application of the peptides of the invention can be used as a generalized
        immune suppressant useful for controlling severe autoimmune reactions such as,
        for example, MS flare-ups, allergic reactions, transplant reactions, or uncontrolled
        response to infection. In a more controlled application, topically applied to joints
  20    affected by rheumatoid arthritis (RA) for example, the peptide of the invention can
        be used to suppress localized autoimmune responses. In a targeted application,
        such as might be achieved through the fusion or bonding of the peptides to certain
        other T cell epitopes, the peptides can suppress highly specific immune reactions
       while leaving the balance of the immune system intact. For example, through the
 25    delivery of a regulatory peptide fused to an autoimmune antigen such as insulin, or
       an allergen such as Brazil nut antigen, the immune system can be trained to
       "tolerate" the co-delivered antigen by converting the phenotype of responding
       effector T cells to that of adaptive regulatory T cells.
                As stated above the peptides of the current invention are derived from
 30    circulating extracellular proteins. To be useful these peptides must be true T cell
       epitopes (i.e., capable of binding to both MHC molecules and TCRs), and be
       related to a pre-existing population of regulatory T cells that is sufficiently large to
       have a therapeutic affect. T cell epitope clusters, epitopes capable of binding to
       multiple MHC alleles and multiple TCRs, are key to satisfying this latter
 35    qualification.
BOST 299675.1                                       11

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
                                                  Definitions
                   To further facilitate an understanding of the present invention, a number of
         terms and phrases are defined below.
                  As used herein, the term "biological sample" as refers to any sample of
   5     tissue, cells or secretions from an organism.
                  As used herein, the term "transplantation" refers to the process of taking a
         cell, tissue, or organ, called a "transplant" or "graft" from one subject and placing it
        or them into a (usually) different subject. The subject who provides the transplant
         is called the "donor", and the subject who received the transplant is called the
  10    "recipient". An organ or graft transplanted between two genetically different
        subjects of the same species is called an "allograft". A graft transplanted between
        subjects of different species is called a "xenograft".
                  As used herein, the term "medical condition" includes, but is not limited to,
        any condition or disease manifested as one or more physical and/or psychological
  15    symptoms for which treatment and/or prevention is desirable, and includes
        previously and newly identified diseases and other disorders.
                  As used herein, the term "immune response" refers to the concerted action
        of lymphocytes, antigen presenting cells, phagocytic cells, granulocytes, and
        soluble macromolecules produced by the above cells or the liver (including
  20    antibodies, cytokines, and complement) that results in selective damage to,
        destruction of, or elimination from the human body of cancerous cells, metastatic
        tumor cells, malignant melanoma, invading pathogens, cells or tissues infected with
        pathogens, or, in cases of autoimmunity or pathological inflammation, normal
        human cells or tissues.
 25               As used herein, the term "effective amount" of a composition, is a quantity
       sufficient to achieve a desired therapeutic and/or prophylactic effect, e.g., an
       amount that results in the prevention of, or a decrease in, the symptoms associated
       with a disease that is being treated. The amount of a composition of the invention
       administered to the subject will depend on the type and severity of the disease and
 30    on the characteristics of the individual, such as general health, age, sex, body
       weight and tolerance to drugs. It will also depend on the degree, severity and type
       of disease. The skilled artisan will be able to determine appropriate dosages
       depending on these and other factors. The compositions of the present invention
       can also be administered in combination with each other or with one or more
 35    additional therapeutic compounds.
BOST 299675.1                                        12

     WO 2008/094538                                                          PCT/US2008/001148
                 As used herein, the term "T cell epitope" means a protein determinant, 7 to
         30 amino acids in length, and capable of specific binding to HLA molecules and
         interacting with specific TCRs. Generally, T cell epitopes are linear and do not
         express specific three dimensional characteristics. T cell epitopes are not affected
   5     by the presence of denaturing solvents.
                 As used herein, the term "B cell epitope" means a protein determinant
         capable of specific binding to an antibody. Epitopes usually consist of chemically
         active surface groupings of molecules such as amino acids or sugar side chains
         and usually have specific three dimensional structural characteristics, as well as
  10     specific charge characteristics. Conformational and non-conformational epitopes
         are distinguished in that the binding to the former but not the latter is lost in the
         presence of denaturing solvents.
                 The term "subject" as used herein refers to any living organism in which an
        immune response is elicited. The term subject includes, but is not limited to,
  15    humans, nonhuman primates such as chimpanzees and other apes and monkey
        species; farm animals such as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats and horses; domestic
        mammals such as dogs and cats; laboratory animals including rodents such as
        mice, rats and guinea pigs, and the like. The term does not denote a particular age
        or sex. Thus, adult and newborn subjects, as well as fetuses, whether male or
  20    female, are intended to be covered.
                As used herein, the term MHC complex refers to a protein complex capable
        of binding with a specific repertoire of polypeptides known as HLA ligands and
        transporting said ligands to the cell surface.
                As used herein, the term "MHC Ligand" means a polypeptide capable of
 25     binding to one or more specific MHC alleles. The term "HLA ligand" is
        interchangeable with the term MHC Ligand. Cells expressing MHC/Ligand
       complexes on their surface are referred to as "Antigen Presenting Cells" (APCs).
                As used herein, the term T Cell Receptor or TCR refers to a protein complex
       expressed by T cells that is capable of engaging a specific repertoire of
 30    MHC/Ligand complexes as presented on the surface of APCs.
                As used herein, the term "T cell epitope" means an MHC ligand capable of
       interacting with specific T cell receptors (TCRs). T cell epitopes can be predicted
       by in silico methods (De Groot, A. et al., AIDS Res. Hum. Retroviruses, 13:539-541,
       1997; Schafer, J. et al., Vaccine, 16:1880-1884, 1998; De Groot, A. et al., Vaccine,
 35    19:4385-95, 2001; De Groot, A. et al., Vaccine, 21:4486-504, 2003).
BOST 299675.1                                       13

      WO 2008/094538                                                                                                                    PCT/US2008/001148
                         As used herein, the term "MHC Binding Motif' refers to a pattern of amino
          acids in a protein sequence that predicts binding to a particular MHC allele.
                         As used herein, the term "T-cell epitope cluster" refers to polypeptide that
          contains between about 4 to about 40 MHC binding motifs. In particular
    5     embodiments, the T-cell epitope cluster contains between about 5 to about 35 MHC
          binding motifs, between about 8 and about 30 MHC binding motifs; and between
          about 10 and 20 MHC binding motifs.
                        As used herein, the term "EpiBar" refers to a single 9-mer frame that is
          predicted to be reactive to at least four different HLA alleles. Sequences of known
   10    immunogens that contain EpiBars include Influenza Hemagglutinin 307-319,
         Tetanus Toxin 825-850, and GAD65 557-567. An example of an immunogenic
         peptide that contains an EpiBar is shown below.
                                                                        Example EpiBar
                                 Accession: Influenza - Sequence: HA306-318
                  Frme          ane                   ROV1011 0531                          rBOO RB17I 0R9108_013FPRlBI9I                  DB.3TDR150
           t~t.       j                          Pc~~ Z iCori       ~I    score      Z Score
                                                                                               1
                                                                                                      ___       L. KWO e' Zscore *Zscore               OZcore__'L      _
            306          PRYVKQ.NTL            314         1.34           1.40                                                                             1.28      1
            307         RYVKQTLK               315
            309         VKQNTLKLA              317                                                                                1.59    [Af67'                     1
            310         KQIITLKLAT             318
         Assessments performed: 40                               Deviation from Expectation: 17.62
         Z score indicates the potential of a 9-mer frame to bind to a given HLA allele: the strength of the score isindicated bythe blue shading as shown below:
                   Cluster Regions Outlined                     ..-          .         Z coreio 'i                 Z scores in top 10%'      remaining scores masked
  15                                         ADscores inthe Top 5%are considered 'Hits". *non hitsbelow 10%are masked for simplicity
         Table 1. Example of an EpiBar: EpiMatrix analysis of a promiscuous influenza
        epitope. Consider the influenza HA peptide, an epitope known to be promiscuously
         immunogenic. It scores extremely high for all eight alleles in EpiMatrix. Its cluster
        score is 18. Cluster scores higher than 10 are considered to be significant. The
  20    band-like EpiBar pattern is characteristic of promiscuous epitopes. Results are
        shown for PRYVKQNTL (SEQ ID NO:59), RYVKQNTLK (SEQ ID NO:60),
        YVKQNTLKL (SEQ ID NO:61), VKQNTLKLA (SEQ ID NO:62) and KQNTLKLAT
        (SEQ ID NO:63).
 25                     As used herein, the term "Immune Synapse" means the protein complex
        formed by the simultaneous engagement of a given T cell Epitope to both a cell
        surface MHC complex and TCR.
                       As used herein, the term "regulatory T cell" means a subset of naturally
        occurring T cells characterized by the presence of certain cell surface markers
 30     including but not limited to CD4, CD25, and FoxP3. Upon activation regulatory T
        cells secrete immune suppressive cytokines and chemokines including but not
        limited to IL-10, TGF-p and TNF-a.
BOST_299675.1                                                                            14

     WO 2008/094538                                                            PCTIUS2008/001148
                  The term "polypeptide" refers to a polymer of amino acids, and not to a
         specific length; thus, peptides, oligopeptides and proteins are included within the
         definition of a polypeptide. As used herein, a polypeptide is said to be "isolated" or
         "purified" when it is substantially free of cellular material when it is isolated from
   5     recombinant and non-recombinant cells, or free of chemical precursors or other
        chemicals when it is chemically synthesized. A polypeptide, however, can be
        joined to another polypeptide with which it is not normally associated in a cell and
        still be "isolated" or "purified." When a polypeptide is recombinantly produced, it
        can also be substantially free of culture medium, for example, culture medium
  10    represents less than about 20%, less than about 10%, or less than about 5% of the
        volume of the polypeptide preparation.
                  A variant polypeptide can differ in amino acid sequence by one or more
        substitutions, deletions, insertions, inversions, fusions, and truncations or a
        combination of any of these.
  15              The invention also includes polypeptide fragments of the polypeptides of the
        invention. The invention also encompasses fragments of the variants of the
        polypeptides described herein. The invention also provides chimeric or fusion
        polypeptides. These comprise a polypeptide of the invention operatively linked to a
        heterologous protein or polypeptide having an amino acid sequence not
 20     substantially homologous to the polypeptide. "Operatively linked" indicates that the
        polypeptide and the heterologous protein are fused in-frame.
                 The isolated polypeptide can be purified from cells that naturally express it,
        purified from cells that have been altered to express it (recombinant), or
        synthesized using known protein synthesis methods. In one embodiment, the
 25     polypeptide is produced by recombinant DNA techniques. For example, a nucleic
        acid molecule encoding the polypeptide is cloned into an expression vector, the
        expression vector introduced into a host cell and the polypeptide expressed in the
        host cell. The polypeptide can then be isolated from the cells by an appropriate
        purification scheme using standard protein purification techniques.
 30              For the purposes of the present invention, polypeptides can include, for
        example, modified forms of naturally occurring amino acids such as D
        stereoisomers, non-naturally occurring amino acids; amino acid analogs; and
        mimetics.
BOST_299675.1                                        15

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
                  Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
          described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, the
         preferred methods and materials are described. Other features, objects, and
         advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and the Claims.
   5      In the Specification and the appended Claims, the singular forms include plural
         referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise,
         all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly
         understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. All
         references cited herein are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and for
  10     all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or patent
         application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by
         reference in its entirety for all purposes.
                                                Compositions
                  In one aspect, the invention provides a novel class of T cell epitopes
  15     compositions, termed 'Tregitopes', which comprise a peptide or polypeptide chain
        with one or more defined characteristics listed below. That is, the Tregitopes of the
        invention include, but are not limited to, possessing one or more of the following
        characteristics:
        (1) Tregitopes of the invention are derived from common human proteins.
 20     (2) Tregitopes of the invention are highly conserved among known variants of their
        source proteins (e.g., present in more than 50% of known variants).
        (3) Tregitopes of the invention comprise at least one putative T cell epitope as
        identified by EpiMatrix analysis. EpiMatrix is a proprietary computer algorithm
        developed by EpiVax, which is used to screen protein sequences for the presence
 25     of putative T cell epitopes. Input sequences are parsed into overlapping 9-mer
        frames where each frame overlaps the last by 8 amino acids. Each of the resulting
        frames is then scored for predicted binding affinity with respect to a panel of eight
        common Class II HLA alleles (DRB1*0101, DRB1*0301, DRB1*0401, DRB1*0701,
        DRB1*0801, DRB1*1101, DRB1*1301, and DRB1*1501). Raw scores are
 30     normalized against the scores of a large sample of randomly generated peptides.
        The resulting "Z" score is reported. Any 9-mer peptide with an allele-specific
        EpiMatrix Z-score in excess of 1.64, theoretically the top 5% of any given sample, is
        considered a putative T cell epitope.
BOST.299675.1                                        16

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
                   In a preferred embodiment the Tregitopes of the invention contain several
          putative T cell epitopes forming a pattern known as a T cell epitope cluster.
         Putative T-cell epitopes are not randomly distributed throughout protein sequences
         but instead tend to "cluster" in specific regions. In addition, peptides containing
   5     clusters of putative T cell epitopes are more likely to test positive in validating in
         vitro and in vivo assays. The results of the initial EpiMatrix analysis are further
         screened for the presence of putative T cell epitope "clusters" using a second
         proprietary algorithm known as Clustimer. The Clustimer algorithm identifies sub
         regions contained within any given amino acid sequence that contains a statistically
  10     unusually high number of putative T cell epitopes. Typical T-cell epitope "clusters"
         range from about 9 to roughly 30 amino acids in length and, considering their
         affinity to multiple alleles and across multiple 9-mer frames, can contain anywhere
        from about 4 to about 40 putative T cell epitopes. For each epitope cluster
         identified an aggregate EpiMatrix score is calculated by summing the scores of the
  15    putative T cell epitopes and subtracting a correcting factor based on the length of
        the candidate epitope cluster and the expected score of a randomly generated
        cluster of the same length. EpiMatrix cluster scores in excess of +10 are
        considered significant.
                  Many of the most reactive T cell epitope clusters contain a feature referred
 20     to as an "EpiBar". An EpiBar is a single 9-mer frame that is predicted to be reactive
        to at least four different HLA alleles. Sequences that contain EpiBars include
        Influenza Hemagglutinin 307-319 (Cluster score of 18), Tetanus Toxin 825-850
        (Cluster score of 16), and GAD65 557-567 (Cluster score of 19). In another
        embodiment, the peptides of the invention can comprise oen or more EpiBars.
 25     (4) Tregitopes of the invention bind to at least one and preferably two or more
        common HLA class 11molecules with at least a moderate affinity (e.g., <200 PM IC5 o
        in HLA binding assays based on soluble HLA molecules).
        (5) Tregitopes of the invention are capable of being presented at the cell surface by
        APCs in the context of at least one and, in a preferred embodiment, two or more
 30     alleles of the HLA.
        (6) In this context, the Tregitope-HLA complex can be recognized by pre-existing
       populations of regulatory T cells having TCRs that are specific for the
       Tregitope-HLA complex and circulating in normal control subjects. The recognition
       of the Tregitope-HLA complex can cause the matching regulatory T cell to be
 35    activated and to secrete regulatory cytokines and chemokines.
BOST 299675.1                                       17

      WO 2008/094538                                                          PCT/US2008/001148
          (7) Stimulating regulatory T cells with Tregitope(s) of the invention results in
          increased secretion of one or more of the following cytokines and chemokines:
          IL-10, TGF-fl, TNF-a and MCP1. This increased secretion of regulatory cytokines
         and chemokines is a hallmark of regulatory T cells.
    5    (8) Regulatory T cells activated by the Tregitope(s) of the invention express a
         CD4+CD25+FOXP3 phenotype.
         (9) Regulatory T cells activated by the Tregitope(s) directly suppress T-effector
         immune responses ex vivo as measured by decreased antigen-specific Thi- or
         Th2-associated cytokine levels, principally INF-y, IL-4, and IL-5, and by decreased
  10     proliferation of antigen-specific T effector cells as measured by CFSE dilution.
         (10) Regulatory T cells activated by the Tregitope(s) directly suppress T effector
         immune responses in vivo as measured by decreased antigen-specific Th1- or Th2
         associated cytokine levels (as measured by Elisa assay), decreased antigen
         specific T effector cell levels (as measured by EliSpot assay) and decreased
  15     antibody titers for protein antigens.
        (11) Natural regulatory T cells activated by the Tregitopes of the invention stimulate
        the development of adaptive      TReg cells. Co-incubating peripheral T cells with the
        Tregitopes of the invention in the presence of antigen results in the expansion of
        antigen-specific CD4+/CD25+ T cells, upregulates the expression of FOXP3+ on
  20    those cells and suppresses the activation of antigen-specific T effector cells in vitro.
                 The Tregitopes of the invention are useful for regulating immune response
        to monoclonal antibodies, protein therapeutics, self antigens promoting autoimmune
        response, allergens, transplanted tissues and in other applications where tolerance
        is the desired outcome. Select embodiments of the Tregitopes of the invention are
 25     summarized in Table 2 in Example 1.
                 In one embodiment, the Tregitope of the invention is a T cell epitope
        isolated as decribed in Table 2. The Tregitopes of Table 2 (SEQ ID NOs: 4 through
        58) can bind MHC class || molecules, engage TCR in context of MHC class I
        molecules and activate natural regulatory T cells.
 30              The polypeptides of the invention can be purified to homogeneity or partially
        purified. It is understood, however, that preparations in which the polypeptide is not
        purified to homogeneity are useful. The critical feature is that the preparation
       allows for the desired function of the polypeptide, even in the presence of
       considerable amounts of other components. Thus, the invention encompasses
 35    various degrees of purity. In one embodiment, the language "substantially free of
BOST_299675.1                                        18

    WO 2008/094538                                                        PCT/US2008/001148
         cellular material" includes preparations of the polypeptide having less than about
         30% (by dry weight) other proteins (e.g., contaminating protein), less than about
         20% other proteins, less than about 10% other proteins, or less than about 5%
         other proteins.
   5             When a polypeptide is recombinantly produced, it can also be substantially
         free of culture medium, for example, culture medium represents less than about
         20%, less than about 10%, or less than about 5% of the volume of the polypeptide
         preparation. The language "substantially free of chemical precursors or other
         chemicals" includes preparations of the polypeptide in which it is separated from
  10     chemical precursors or other chemicals that are involved in its synthesis. The
         language "substantially free of chemical precursors or other chemicals" can include,
        for example, preparations of the polypeptide having less than about 30% (by dry
        weight) chemical precursors or other chemicals, less than about 20% chemical
         precursors or other chemicals, less than about 10% chemical precursors or other
  15    chemicals, or less than about 5% chemical precursors or other chemicals.
                 As used herein, two polypeptides (or a region of the polypeptides) are
        substantially homologous or identical when the amino acid sequences are at least
        about 45-55%, typically at least about 70-75%, more typically at least about 80
        85%, and more typically greater than about 90% or more homologous or identical.
 20     To determine the percent homology or identity of two amino acid sequences, or of
        two nucleic acid sequences, the sequences are aligned for optimal comparison
        purposes (e.g., gaps can be introduced in the sequence of one polypeptide or
        nucleic acid molecule for optimal alignment with the other polypeptide or nucleic
        acid molecule). The amino acid residues or nucleotides at corresponding amino
 25     acid positions or nucleotide positions are then compared. When a position in one
        sequence is occupied by the same amino acid residue or nucleotide as the
        corresponding position in the other sequence, then the molecules are homologous
       at that position. As used herein, amino acid or nucleic acid "homology" is
       equivalent to amino acid or nucleic acid "identity". The percent homology between
 30    the two sequences is a function of the number of identical positions shared by the
       sequences (e.g., percent homology equals the number of identical positions/total
       number of positions x 100).
                The invention also encompasses polypeptides having a lower degree of
       identity but having sufficient similarity so as to perform one or more of the same
 35    functions performed by a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid molecule of the
BOST299675.1                                        19

     WO 2008/094538                                                              PCT/US2008/001148
         invention. Similarity is determined by conserved amino acid substitution. Such
         substitutions are those that substitute a given amino acid in a polypeptide by
         another amino acid of like characteristics. Conservative substitutions are likely to
         be phenotypically silent. Typically seen as conservative substitutions are the
   5     replacements, one for another, among the aliphatic amino acids Ala, Val, Leu and
         lie; interchange of the hydroxyl residues Ser and Thr, exchange of the acidic
         residues Asp and Glu, substitution between the amide residues Asn and Gin,
        exchange of the basic residues Lys and Arg and replacements among the aromatic
        residues Phe and Tyr. Guidance concerning which amino acid changes are likely
  10    to be phenotypically silent are found, for example, in Bowie, J. et al., Science,
        247:1306-1310, 1990.
                  A variant polypeptide can differ in amino acid sequence by one or more
        substitutions, deletions, insertions, inversions, fusions, and truncations or a
        combination of any of these. Variant polypeptides can be fully functional or can
 15     lack function in one or more activities. Fully functional variants typically contain
        only conservative variation or variation in non-critical residues or in non-critical
        regions. Functional variants can also contain substitution of similar amino acids
        that result in no change or an insignificant change in function. Alternatively, such
        substitutions can positively or negatively affect function to some degree. Non
 20     functional variants typically contain one or more non-conservative amino acid
        substitutions, deletions, insertions, inversions, or truncation or a substitution,
        insertion, inversion, or deletion in a critical residue or critical region. Several
        examples of variant polypeptides are included in Table 2.
                  The invention also includes polypeptide fragments of the polypeptides of the
 25     invention. The invention also encompasses fragments of the variants of the
        polypeptides described herein. As used herein, a fragment comprises at least
        about five contiguous amino acids. Useful fragments include those that retain one
        or more of the biological activities of the polypeptide as well as fragments that can
        be used as an immunogen to generate polypeptide-specific antibodies. Biologically
 30     active fragments are, for example, about 6, 9, 12, 15, 16, 20 or 30 or more amino
        acids in length. Fragments can be discrete (not fused to other amino acids or
        polypeptides) or can be within a larger polypeptide. Several fragments can be
        comprised within a single larger polypeptide. Inone embodiment a fragment
       designed for expression in a host can have heterologous pre- and pro-polypeptide
BOST_299675.1                                        20

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
         regions fused to the amino terminus of the polypeptide fragment and an additional
         region fused to the carboxyl terminus of the fragment.
                  The invention also provides chimeric or fusion polypeptides. These
         comprise a polypeptide of the invention operatively linked to a heterologous protein
   5     or polypeptide having an amino acid sequence not substantially homologous to the
         polypeptide. "Operatively linked" indicates that the polypeptide and the
         heterologous protein are fused in-frame. The heterologous protein can be fused to
        the N-terminus or C-terminus of the polypeptide. In one embodiment the fusion
        polypeptide does not affect function of the polypeptide per se. For example, the
  10    fusion polypeptide can be a GST-fusion polypeptide in which the polypeptide
        sequences are fused to the C-terminus of the GST sequences. Other types of
        fusion polypeptides include, but are not limited to, enzymatic fusion polypeptides,
        for example beta-galactosidase fusions, yeast two-hybrid GAL fusions, poly-His
        fusions and Ig fusions. Such fusion polypeptides, particularly poly-His fusions or
  15    affinity tag fusions, can facilitate the purification of recombinant polypeptide. In
        certain host cells (e.g., mammalian host cells), expression and/or secretion of a
        polypeptide can be increased by using a heterologous signal sequence. Therefore,
        in another embodiment, the fusion polypeptide contains a heterologous signal
        sequence at its N-terminus.
 20              A chimeric or fusion polypeptide can be produced by standard recombinant
        DNA techniques. For example, DNA fragments coding for the different polypeptide
        sequences are ligated together in-frame in accordance with conventional
       techniques, In another embodiment, the fusion gene can be synthesized by
       conventional techniques including automated DNA synthesizers. Alternatively,
 25     PCR amplification of nucleic acid fragments can be carried out using anchor
       primers which give rise to complementary overhangs between two consecutive
       nucleic acid fragments which can subsequently be annealed and re-amplified to
       generate a chimeric nucleic acid sequence (Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in
       Molecular Biology, 1992). Moreover, many expression vectors are commercially
 30    available that already encode a fusion moiety (e.g., a GST protein). A nucleic acid
       molecule encoding a polypeptide of the invention can be cloned into such an
       expression vector such that the fusion moiety is linked in-frame to the polypeptide.
                 The isolated polypeptide can be purified from cells that naturally express it,
       purified from cells that have been altered to express it (recombinant), or
 35    synthesized using known protein synthesis methods. In one embodiment, the
BOST_299675,1                                        21

     WO 2008/094538                                                         PCT/US2008/001148
         polypeptide is produced by recombinant DNA techniques. For example, a nucleic
         acid molecule encoding the polypeptide is cloned into an expression vector, the
         expression vector introduced into a host cell and the polypeptide expressed in the
         host cell. The polypeptide can then be isolated from the cells by an appropriate
   5     purification scheme using standard protein purification techniques.
                 The invention also provides for nucleic acids that encode in whole or in part
        the polypeptides of the invention. The nucleic acid molecules of the invention can
         be inserted into vectors and used, for example, as expression vectors or gene
        therapy vectors. Gene therapy vectors can be delivered to a subject by, e.g.,
  10    intravenous injection, local administration (U.S. Pat. No. 5,328,470) or by
        stereotactic injection (Chen, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 91:3054-3057,
         1994). The pharmaceutical preparation of the gene therapy vector can include the
        gene therapy vector in an acceptable diluent, or can comprise a slow release matrix
        in which the gene delivery vehicle is imbedded. Alternatively, where the complete
  15    gene delivery vector can be produced intact from recombinant cells, e.g., retroviral
        vectors, the pharmaceutical preparation can include one or more cells that produce
        the gene delivery system. The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a
        container, pack, or dispenser together with instructions for administration.
                 Tregitopes of the invention can include allelic or sequence variants
  20    ("mutants") or analogs thereof, or can include chemical modifications (e.g.,
        pegylation, gycosylation). In one instance, a mutant can provide for enhanced
        binding to MHC molecules. In another instance, a mutant can lead to enhanced
        binding to TCRs. In an other instance, a mutant can lead to a decrease in binding
       to MHC molecules and/or TCRs. Also contemplated is a mutant that binds but does
 25    not allow signaling via the TCR.
                 The invention provides for Tregitope compositions that are chimeric protein
       compositions. In one embodiment, the Tregitope composition comprises a first and
       a second polypeptide chain linked together, wherein the first chain comprises
       sequence numbers 4 through 58 or any combination thereof, and said second chain
 30    comprises a biologically active molecule. In one embodiment, the biologically
       active molecule is selected from the group consisting of: an immunogenic molecule;
       a T cell epitope; viral protein; bacterial protein. In one embodiment, the Tregitope
       composition of the invention comprises a first and a second polypeptide chain
       linked together, wherein said first chain comprises a Fc region wherein the amino
BOST 299675.1                                       22

     WO 2008/094538                                                          PCT/US2008/001148
        acids in region 289-309 has been altered so as not to bind to MHC class 1i
         molecules, and said second chain comprises a immunogenic molecule.
                 In one aspect, the invention provides methods to produce a regulatory T cell
        line recognizing at least a portion of SEQ ID NOS:4-58. In one embodiment, one or
   5    more peptides selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOS:4-58 are
        combined in admixture with an appropriate excipient. Such compositions are useful
        in methods of preventing or treating inflammation in a subject in need thereof,
        wherein local delivery of the admixture with an appropriate excipient results in
        decreased inflammation in the subject.
  10            In one embodiment, one or more peptides selected from the group
        consisting of SEQ ID NOS:4-58 are combined in admixture with a antigen or
        allergen. Such compositions are useful in methods of inducing tolerance to the
        antigen or allergen in a subject in need thereof, wherein local delivery of the
        admixture with a antigen or allergen results in increased tolerance to the antigen or
  15    allergen in the subject, and delivered with an appropriate excipient resulting in
        induced tolerance to the antigen or allergen.
                In one embodiment, the invention provides a nucleic acid encoding
        comprising one or more of the Tregitope polypeptides selected from the group
        consisting of SEQ ID NOS:4-58. In one embodiment, the invention provides a
 20     vector comprising a nucleic acid encoding comprising one or more of the Tregitope
        polypeptides selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOS:4-58. In one
        embodiment, the invention provides a cell comprising a vector of the invention. The
        cell can be a mammalian cell, bacterial cell, insect cell, or yeast cell.
                                   Cloning of Tregitope Specific T cells
 25             Cloning of Tregitope specific T cells can be conducted by techniques known
       to one of skill in the art. For example, isolated PBMCs are stimulated with
       Tregitopes at 10 pg/ml RPMI media containing 20% HSA. IL-2 is added (10 U/ml
       final concentration) every other day starting on day 5. T cells are stained with
       tetramer pools on day 11 or 12. For each pool, 2-3 x 105 cells are incubated with
 30    0.5 mg of PE-labeled tetramer in 50 ml of culture medium (10 mg/ml) at 37*C for 1
       to 2 h, and then stained with anti-CD4-FITC (BD PharMingen, San Diego, CA) for
        15 min at room temperature. Cells are washed and analyzed with a Becton
       Dickinson FACSCalibur flow cytometer (Becton Dickinson, San Jose, CA).
       Tetramers loaded with the corresponding single peptides are generated for those
 35    pools that give positive staining, and analysis is done on day 14 or 15. Cells that
BOST_299675.1                                       23

      WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
          are positive for a particular tetramer are single-cell sorted into 96-well U-bottom
          plates by using a Becton Dickinson FACSVantage (San Jose, CA) on the same or
         following day. Sorted cells are expanded with 1.5-3 x 105 unmatched, irradiated
          (5000 rad) PBMC per well as feeders with 2.5 mg/ml PHA and 10 U/mI IL-2 added
    5    24 h later. Specificity of cloned T cells is confirmed by staining with tetramers
         (loaded with cognate peptide or control peptide, HA307-319) and T cell proliferation
         assays with 10 mg/mI of specific peptide (Novak, E. et al., J. Immunol., 166:6665
         6670, 2001).
                                Methods of Use of Tregitope Compositions
  10              In one aspect, the invention provides methods of using Tregitopes for the
         purpose of designing small molecules. In one method of the invention, Tregitope
         specific T cells are stimulated three times with pools of small molecule mixtures at a
         concentration of 1 pg/mi and autologous dendritic cells (DC) at 2-week intervals,
        followed by stimulation with heterologous DC and antigens. T cells (1.25 x 105) and
  15     DC (0.25 x 105) are added per well in round-bottom, 96-well plates. T cell medium
         is made by supplementing 500 ml of RPMI medium 1640 with 50 ml of FCS
        (HyClone), penicillin, and streptomycin (GIBCO); 20 mM Hepes (GIBCO); and 4 ml
         1 N NaOH solution. The IL-2 concentration is initially 0.1 nM and gradually is
        increased to 1 nM during subsequent rounds of stimulation. T cell clones are
 20     derived by limiting dilution by using 0.6 x 105 Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B cells
        (100 Gray) and 1.3 x 105 heterologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells (33
        Gray) as feeder cells and I pg/ml phytohemagglutinin (Difco) in medium containing
        2 nM IL-2. Small molecules pools that stimulate the Tregitope specific T cells are
        then tested as individual molecules.
 25              In one aspect, the invention provides methods of using Tregitopes for the
        purpose of cloning T cell receptors. Total RNA is extracted with an RNeasy Mini Kit
        (Qiagene) from the Tregitope specific T cell lines generated as described above.
        One microgram of total RNA is used to clone the TCR cDNAs by a rapid
        amplification of cDNA end (RACE) method (GeneRacer Kit, Invitrogen). Before
 30     synthesizing the single-strand cDNA, the RNA is dephosphorylated, decapped, and
        ligated with an RNA oligonucleotide according to the instruction manual of 5' RACE
       GeneRacer Kit. SuperScript 11RT and GeneRacer Oligo-dT are used for reverse
       transcription of the RNA Oligo-ligated mRNA to single-strand cDNAs. 5' RACE is
       performed by using GeneRacer 5' (GeneRacer Kit) as 5' primer and gene-specific
 35    primer TCRCAR (5'-GTT AAC TAG TTC AGC TGG ACC ACA GCC GCA GC-3';
BOST_299675.1                                       24

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
         SEQ ID NO:64) or TCRCB1 R (5'- CGG GTT AAC TAG TTC AGA AAT CCT TTC
         TCT TGA CCA TGG C -3'; SEQ ID NO:65), or TCRCBR2 (5'-CTA GCC TCT GGA
         ATC CTT TCT CTT G-3'; SEQ ID NO:66) as 3' primers for TCR a, /l, or P2 chains,
         respectively. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products are cloned into
   5     pCR2.1 TOPO vector (Invitrogen) and then transformed into One Shot TOP10
         Competent Escherchia co/i (Invitrogen). Plasmid DNAs are prepared from 96
         individual clones from each construct for TCRa, p1, and P2 chains. Full-length
         insert of all the plasmids is sequenced to determine the va/vfl usage (Zhao, Y. et
         a/., J. Immunother., 29:398-406, 2006).
  10                                   Pharmaceutical Formulations
                  The invention provides methods of treating a subject with a medical
        condition comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a Tregitope
        in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. The Tregitopes of the present
        invention can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for
  15    administration. The pharmaceutical compositions generally comprise at least one
        Tregitope and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier in a form suitable for
        administration to a subject. Pharmaceutically-acceptable carriers are determined in
        part by the particular composition being administered, as well as by the particular
        method used to administer the composition. Accordingly, there is a wide variety of
 20     suitable formulations of pharmaceutical compositions for administering the
        Tregitope compositions (see, e.g., Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack
        Publishing Co., Easton, PA 18th ed., 1990). The pharmaceutical compositions are
        generally formulated as sterile, substantially isotonic and in full compliance with all
        Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug
 25    Administration.
                  The terms "pharmaceutically-acceptable," "physiologically-tolerable," and
       grammatical variations thereof, as they refer to compositions, carriers, diluents and
        reagents, are used interchangeably and represent that the materials are capable of
       administration to or upon a subject without the production of undesirable
 30     physiological effects to a degree that would prohibit administration of the
       composition. "Pharmaceutically-acceptable excipient" means, for example, an
       excipient that is useful in preparing a pharmaceutical composition that is generally
       safe, non-toxic, and desirable, and includes excipients that are acceptable for
       veterinary use as well as for human pharmaceutical use. Such excipients can be
 35    solid, liquid, semisolid, or, in the case of an aerosol composition, gaseous. A
BOST_299675.1                                       25

      WO 2008/094538                                                          PCT/US2008/001148
         person of ordinary skill in the art would be able to determine the appropriate timing,
         sequence and dosages of administration for particular drugs and compositions of
         the present invention.
                 Preferred examples of such carriers or diluents include, but are not limited
    5    to, water, saline, Ringer's solutions, dextrose solution, and 5% human serum
         albumin. Liposomes and non-aqueous vehicles such as fixed oils can also be
         used. The use of such media and compounds for pharmaceutically active
         substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or
        compound is incompatible with the Tregitope, use thereof in the compositions is
  10    contemplated. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the
        compositions.
                 A pharmaceutical composition of the invention is formulated to be
        compatible with its intended route of administration. The Tregitope compositions of
        the present invention can be administered by parenteral, topical, intravenous, oral,
  15    subcutaneous, intraarterial, intradermal, transdermal, rectal, intracranial,
        intraperitoneal, intranasal; vaginally; intramuscular route or as inhalants. In some
        embodiments of the invention, agents are injected directly into a particular tissue
        where deposits have accumulated, e.g., intracranial injection. Intramuscular
        injection or intravenous infusion are preferred for administration of the Tregitope. In
  20    some methods, particular Tregitopes of the invention are injected directly into the
        cranium. In some methods, the Tregitopes of the invention are administered as a
        sustained release composition or device, such as a Medipad TM device.
                The Tregitope of the invention can optionally be administered in combination
       with other agents that are at least partly effective in treating various medical
 25    conditions as described herein. In the case of administration into the central
        nervous system of a subject, the Tregitope of the invention can also be
       administered in conjunction with other agents that increase passage of the agents
       of the invention across the blood-brain barrier.
                Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral, intradermal, or subcutaneous
 30    application can include the following components: a sterile diluent such as water for
       injection, saline solution, fixed oils, polyethylene glycols, glycerine, propylene glycol
       or other synthetic solvents; antibacterial compounds such as benzyl alcohol or
       methyl parabens; antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite; chelating
       compounds such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA); buffers such as
 35    acetates, citrates or phosphates, and compounds for the adjustment of tonicity such
BOST 299675.1                                       26

     WO 2008/094538                                                             PCT/US2008/001148
          as sodium chloride or dextrose. The pH can be adjusted with acids or bases, such
          as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. Examples of excipients can include
          starch, glucose, lactose, sucrose, gelatin, malt, rice, flour, chalk, silica gel, water,
          ethanol, DMSO, glycol, propylene, dried skim milk, and the like. The composition
   5     can also contain pH buffering reagents, and wetting or emulsifying agents.
                  The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules, disposable
         syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.
                  Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile
         aqueous solutions (where water soluble) or dispersions and sterile powders for the
  10     extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For
         intravenous administration, suitable carriers include physiological saline,
         bacteriostatic water, Cremophor ELTM (BASF, Parsippany, N.J.) or phosphate
         buffered saline (PBS). In all cases, the composition is sterile and should be fluid to
         the extent that easy syringeability exists. It is stable under the conditions of
  15     manufacture and storage and is preserved against the contaminating action of
         microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or
         dispersion medium containing, e.g., water, ethanol, polyol (e.g., glycerol, propylene
         glycol, and liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof.
        The proper fluidity can be maintained, e.g., by the use of a coating such as lecithin,
 20      by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the
        use of surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be achieved by
        various antibacterial and antifungal compounds, e.g., parabens, chlorobutanol,
        phenol, ascorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In many cases, it will be preferable
        to include isotonic compounds, e.g., sugars, polyalcohols such as manitol, sorbitol,
 25     sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable
        compositions can be brought about by including in the composition a compound
        that delays absorption, e.g., aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
                 Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the Tregitope in
        the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of
 30     ingredients enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization.
        Generally, dispersions are prepared by incorporating the binding agent into a sterile
        vehicle that contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients
        from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of
        sterile injectable solutions, methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze
 35     drying that yields a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired
BOST_299675.1                                       27

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
          ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered solution thereof. The agents of this
          invention can be administered in the form of a depot injection or implant preparation
          that can be formulated in such a manner as to permit a sustained or pulsatile
          release of the active ingredient.
   5              Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier.
         They can be enclosed in gelatin capsules or compressed into tablets. For the
         purpose of oral therapeutic administration, the binding agent can be incorporated
         with excipients and used in the form of tablets, troches, or capsules. Oral
         compositions can also be prepared using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash,
  10     wherein the compound in the fluid carrier is applied orally and swished and
         expectorated or swallowed. Pharmaceutically compatible binding compounds,
         and/or adjuvant materials can be included as part of the composition. The tablets,
         pills, capsules, troches and the like can contain any of the following ingredients, or
         compounds of a similar nature: a binder such as microcrystalline cellulose, gum
  15     tragacanth or gelatin; an excipient such as starch or lactose, a disintegrating
         compound such as alginic acid, Primogel or corn starch; a lubricant such as
         magnesium stearate or Sterotes; a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide; a
         sweetening compound such as sucrose or saccharin; or a flavoring compound such
         as peppermint, methyl salicylate or orange flavoring.
 20               For administration by inhalation, the Tregitope(s) are delivered in the form of
         an aerosol spray from pressured container or dispenser that contains a suitable
         propellant, e.g., a gas such as carbon dioxide, or a nebulizer.
                  Systemic administration can also be by transmucosal or transdermal means.
         For transmucosal or transdermal administration, penetrants appropriate to the
 25      barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally
         known in the art, and include, e.g., for transmucosal administration, detergents, bile
        salts, and fusidic acid derivatives. Transmucosal administration can be
        accomplished through the use of nasal sprays or suppositories. For transdermal
        administration, the Tregitope is formulated into ointments, salves, gels, or creams
 30     and applied either topically or through transdermal patch technology as generally
        known in the art.
                 The Tregitope can also be prepared as pharmaceutical compositions in the
        form of suppositories (e.g., with conventional suppository bases such as cocoa
        butter and other glycerides) or retention enemas for rectal delivery.
BOST.299675.1                                        28

     WO 2008/094538                                                        PCT/US2008/001148
                 In one embodiment, the Tregitope is prepared with carriers that protect the
        Tregitope against rapid elimination from the body, such as a controlled-release
        formulation, including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems.
        Biodegradable, biocompatible polymers can be used, such as, for example,
   5    ethylene vinyl acetate, polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid, collagen, polyorthoesters,
        and polylactic acid. Methods for preparation of such formulations will be apparent to
        those skilled in the art. The materials can also be obtained commercially from Alza
        Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Liposomal suspensions (including
        liposomes targeted to infected cells with monoclonal antibodies to viral antigens)
  10    can also be used as pharmaceutically-acceptable carriers. These can be prepared
        according to methods known to those skilled in the art (U.S. Pat. No. 4,522,811).
        The Tregitopes or chimeric proteins can be implanted within or linked to a
        biopolymer solid support that allows for the slow release of the Tregitopes or
        chimeric proteins to the desired site.
  15            It is especially advantageous to formulate oral or parenteral compositions in
       dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit
       form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for
       the subject to be treated; each unit containing a predetermined quantity of binding
       agent calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the
 20    required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the
       invention are dictated by and directly dependent on the unique characteristics of the
       binding agent and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved, and the
       limitations inherent in the art of compounding such Tregitope for the treatment of a
       subject.
 25                     Methods of Preventing or Treating a Medical Condition
                The present invention is directed to, for example methods of treating one or
       more medical conditions comprising administering a Tregitope or chimeric protein of
       the invention, thereby treating the medical condition. The medical condition can be,
       for example, primary immunodeficiencies; immune-mediated thrombocytopenia,
 30    Kawasaki disease, hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in patients older than 20
       years, chronic B-cell lymphocytic leukemia and pediatric HIV type 1 infections.
       Specific examples include: (Hematology) aplastic anemia, pure red cell aplasia,
       Diamond-Blackfan anemia, autoimmune hemolytic anemia, hemolytic disease of
       the newborn, acquired factor VIII inhibitors, acquired von Willebrand disease,
 35    immune-mediated neutropenia, refractoriness to platelet transfusion, neonatal
BOST299675.1                                      29

     WO 2008/094538                                                              PCT/US2008/001148
         alloimmune/autoimmune thrombocytopenia, posttransfusion purpura, thrombotic
         thrombocytopenia purpura/hemolytic uremic syndrome; (Infectious diseases)
         conditions in which acquiring an infectious disease could be deleterious include low
         birth weight (e.g., <1500 g), solid organ transplantation, surgery, trauma, burns, and
   5     HIV infection; (Neurology) epilepsy and pediatric intractable Guillain-Barre
         syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, myasthenia gravis,
         Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, multifocal motor neuropathy, multiple
         sclerosis; (Obstetrics) recurrent pregnancy loss; (Pulmonology) asthma, chronic
         chest symptoms, rheumatology, rheumatoid arthritis (adult and juvenile), systemic
  10     lupus erythematosus, systemic vasculitides, dermatomyositis, polymyositis,
        inclusion-body myositis, wegener granulomatosis; (Miscellaneous)
        adrenoleukodystrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Behget syndrome, acute
        cardiomyopathy, chronic fatigue syndrome, congential heart block, cystic fibrosis,
        autoimmune blistering dermatosis, diabetes mellitus, acute idiopathic
  15    dysautonomia, acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, endotoxemia, hemolytic
        transfusion reaction, hemophagocytic syndrome, acute lymphoblastic leukemia,
        lower motor neuron syndrome, multiple myeloma, human T-cell lymphotrophic
        virus-1 -associated myelopathy, nephritic syndrome, membranous nephropathy,
        nephrotic syndrome, euthyroid ophthalmopathy, opsoclonus-myoclonus, recurrent
  20    otitis media, paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration, paraproteinemic neuropathy,
        parvovirus infection (general), polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, M
        protein, and skin changes (POEMS) syndrome, progressive lumbosacral
        plexopathy, lyme radiculoneuritis, Rasmussen syndrome, Reiter syndrome, acute
        renal failure, thrombocytopenia (nonimmune), streptococcal toxic shock syndrome,
 25     uveitis and Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome.
                 In particular embodiment, the present invention is directed to, for example,
        methods of treating allergy, autoimmune disease, transplant-related disorders such
        as graft versus host disease, enzyme or protein deficiency disorders, hemostatic
        disorders, cancers, infertility, or infections (viral, bacterial, or parasitic). The
 30     Tregitopes or chimeric proteins of the invention can be used with in conjunction with
        other proteins or compounds used for treating a subject with a medical condition in
        order to reduce adverse events or enhance the efficacy of the co-administered
        compound.
BOST_299675.1                                        30

     WO 2008/094538                                                         PCT/US2008/001148
                  Applicationto Allergy. Allergen-specific regulatory T cells play an
         important role in controlling the development of allergy and asthma. Both naturally
         occurring CD4/CD25 regulatory T cells and secondary TRegs (antigen-specific
         regulatory T cells), both expressing the transcription factor FOXp3, have been
   5     shown to inhibit the inappropriate immune responses involved in allergic diseases.
         A number of recent studies indicate that regulatory T cells play an important role in
         controlling the overdevelopment of T-helper type 2 biased immune responses in
         susceptible individuals, not only in animal models, but in humans as well. Recent
         studies indicate that T regulatory cells also suppress T cell costimulation by the
  10     secretion of TGF-p and IL-10, suggesting an important role of T regulatory cells in
         the regulation of allergic disorders. Impaired expansion of natural or adaptive
         regulatory T cells leads to the development of allergy, and treatment to induce
        allergen-specific regulatory T cells would provide curative therapies for allergy and
        asthma.
  15             One strategy both for the prevention and therapy of asthma is the induction
        of regulatory T cells. Animals can be protected from developing asthma by immune
        stimulation leading to Th1 or Tr responses.
                 Application to Transplantation. The Tregitopes of the invention are useful
        to induce tolerance during the transplantation process, by promoting the
 20     development of cells that specifically down regulate immune responses against
        donor cells. Induction of Ag-specific TReg cells for treating organ-specific
        autoimmunity is an important therapeutic development, avoiding generalized
        immune suppression. In murine models of bone marrow transplantation,          TRegs
        promote donor bone marrow engraftment and decrease the incidence and severity
 25     of graft versus host disease without abrogating the beneficial graft versus tumor
        immunologic effect. These findings, in concert with observations that TR9s in mice
        and humans share phenotypic and functional characteristics, have led to active
        investigations into the use of these cells to decrease complications associated with
        human hematopoietic cell transplantation. An imbalance of TRegs and effector
 30    T cells contributes to the development of graft versus host disease. However, the
        mechanisms of immunoregulation, in particular the allorecognition properties of
       TRegs,  their effects on and interaction with other immune cells, and their sites of
       suppressive activity, are not well understood.
BOST_299675.1                                       31

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
                 Accumulating evidence from both humans and experimental animal models
         has implicated the involvement of TRegs in the development of graft versus host
         disease (GVHD). The demonstration that TReg can separate GVHD from graft
         versus tumor (GVT) activity suggests that their immunosuppressive potential could
   5     be manipulated to reduce GVHD without detrimental consequence on GVT effect.
         Although a variety of T lymphocytes with suppressive capabilities have been
         reported, the two best-characterized subsets are the naturally arising, intrathymic
         generated TRegs (natural TRes) and the peripherally generated, inducible TRegs
         (inducible TRegs).
  10             Applicationto Autoimmunity. Tregitopes can be used as a tolerizing
         agents for immunogenic compounds (protein therapeutics). This discovery has
        implications for the design of protein therapeutics. Thus, administration of a
        monoclonal antibody, autologous cytokine, or foreign protein in conjunction with
        Tregitopes suppresses adverse T effector immune responses. In vivo, TRegs act
  15    through dendritic cells to limit autoreactive T-cell activation, thus preventing their
        differentiation and acquisition of effector functions. By limiting the supply of
        activated pathogenic cells, TRegs prevent or slow down the progression of
        autoimmune diseases. This protective mechanism appears, however, insufficient in
        autoimmune individuals, likely because of a shortage of TRegs cells and/or the
  20    development and accumulation of TReg-resistant pathogenic T cells over the long
        disease course. Thus, restoration of self-tolerance in these patients may require
        purging of pathogenic T cells along with infusion of TRegs with increased ability to
        control ongoing tissue injury. Organ-specific autoimmune conditions, such as
        thyroiditis and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus have been attributed to a
 25     breakdown of this tolerance mechanism.
                Applicationto Diabetes. Type 1 (juvenile) diabetes is an organ-specific
        autoimmune disease resulting from destruction of insulin-producing pancreatic
        beta-cells. In non-diabetics, islet cell antigen-specific T cells are either deleted in
       thymic development or are converted to T regulatory cells that actively suppress
 30    effector responses to islet cell antigens. In juvenile diabetics and in the NOD
       mouse model of juvenile diabetes, these tolerance mechanisms are missing. In
       their absence, islet cell antigens are presented by human leukocyte antigen (HLA)
       class I and Il molecules and are recognized by CD8(+) and CD4(+) auto-reactive T
       cells. Destruction of islet cells by these auto-reactive cells eventually leads to
 35    glucose intolerance. Co-administration of Tregitopes and islet cell antigens leads to
BOST 299675.1                                       32

     WO 2008/094538                                                          PCT/US2008/001148
          the activation of natural T regulatory cells and the conversion of existing antigen
          specific effector T cell to a regulatory phenotype. In this way deleterious
         autoimmune response is redirected leading to the induction of antigen-specific
         adaptive tolerance. Modulation of auto-immune responses to autologous epitopes
   5     by induction of antigen-specific tolerance can prevent ongoing beta-cell destruction.
         Accordingly, a Tregitope of the invention is useful in methods for the prevention or
         treatment of diabetes.
                  Application to Hepatitus B (HBV) infection. Chronic HBV is usually either
         acquired (by maternal fetal transmission) or can be a rare outcome of acute HBV
  10     infection in adults. Acute exacerbations of chronic hepatitis B (CH-B) are
         accompanied by increased cytotoxic T cell responses to hepatitis B core and e
         antigens (HBcAg/HBeAg). In a recent study, the SYFPEITHI T cell epitope
         mapping system was used to predict MHC class l-restricted epitope peptides from
         the HBcAg and HbeAg. MHC class 11tetramers using the high scoring peptides
  15    were constructed and used to measure TReg and CTL frequencies. The results
         showed that TReg cells specific for HBcAg declined during exacerbations
         accompanied by an increase in HBcAg peptide-specific cytotoxic T cells. During
        the tolerance phase, FOXp3-expressing TReg cell clones were identified. These
        data suggest that the decline of HbcAg TReg T cells accounts for the spontaneous
 20     exacerbations on the natural history of chronic hepatitis B virus infection.
        Accordingly, a Tregitope of the invention is useful in methods for the prevention or
        treatment of viral infection, e.g., HBV infection.
                 Applicationto SLE. A TReg epitope that plays a role in Systemic Lupus
        Erythematosis (SLE) or Sjbgren's syndrome has been defined. This peptide
 25     encompasses residues 131-151 (RIHMVYSKRSGKPRGYAFIEY; SEQ ID NO:67)
        of the spliceosome protein. Binding assays with soluble HLA class Il molecules and
        molecular modeling experiments indicated that the epitope behaves as
        promiscuous epitope and binds to a large panel of human DR molecules. In
        contrast to normal T cells and T cells from non-lupus autoimmune patients, PBMCs
 30     from 40% of randomly selected lupus patients contain T cells that proliferate in
        response to peptide 131-151. Alteration of the ligand modified the T cell response,
       suggesting that several populations of T cells responding to this peptide exist,
       among which may be TReg cells. T regulatory epitopes have also been defined in
       Sj6gren's syndrome. Accordingly, a Tregitope of the invention co-administered in
BOST_299675.1                                        33

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
          combination with the epitope from above is useful in methods for the prevention or
          treatment of SLE.
                 Applicationto Graves' Disease. Graves' disease is an autoimmune
          disorder that is characterized by antibodies to self-thyroid stimulating hormone
   5      receptor (TSHR) leading to leading to hyperthyroidism, or an abnormally strong
          release of hormones from the thyroid gland. Several genetic factors can influence
         susceptibility to Graves' disease. Females are much more likely to contract the
         disease than males; White and Asian populations are at higher risk than black
         populations and HLA DRB1-0301 is closely associated with the disease.
  10     Accordingly, co-administration of Tregitope(s) of the invention with TSHR or other
         Graves' disease antigens or portions thereof is useful in methods for the prevention
         or treatment of Graves' disease.
                 Applicationto Autoimmune Thyroiditis. Autoimmune Thyroiditis is a
         condition that occurs when antibodies arise to self thyroid peroxidase and/or
  15     thyroglobulin, which cause the gradual destruction of follicles in the thyroid gland.
         HLA DR5 is closely associated with the disease. Accordingly, co-administration of
         Tregitope of the invention with thyroid peroxidase and/or thyroglobulin TSHR or
         portions thereof are useful in methods for the prevention or treatment of
         autoimmune thyroiditis.
  20             Applicationto the Design of Vaccine Vectors. A monoclonal antibody
        targeting the dendritic cell surface receptor DEC-205 has shown promise as a
        vaccine vector capable of targeting vaccine antigens to dendritic cells. The success
        of anti-DEC-205 as a stimulator of strong inflammatory immune responses,
        however, depends on co-administration of non-specific dendritic cell maturation
 25     factors. In their absence, anti-DEC-205 induces antigen-specific tolerance rather
        than immunity. Therefore, regulatory T-cell epitopes contained in anti-DEC-205
        promote a tolerogenic reaction that is only overcome through the co-administration
        of non-specific immuno-stimulators. This point has been verified experimentally,
        namely, that the Tregitopes contained in the anti-DEC-205 vector cause antigen
 30     specific expansion of regulatory T cells and suppress inflammatory immune
        responses. Modifying those Tregitopes such that they no longer bind to MHC
        molecules will significantly diminish tolerogenicity, enabling use of anti-DEC-205 as
        an effective stand alone antigen delivery system that obviates the dangers
        associated with non-specific activation of the immune system.
BOST_299675.1                                      34

   WO 2008/094538                                                          PCT/US2008/001148
                                                   KITS
                  The methods described herein can be performed, e.g., by utilizing pre
         packaged kits comprising at least one Tregitope composition of the invention, which
        can be conveniently used, e.g., in clinical settings to treat subjects exhibiting
   5    symptoms or family history of a medical condition described herein. In one
        embodiment, the kit further comprises instructions for use of the at least one
        Tregitope composition of the invention to treat subjects exhibiting symptoms or
        family history of a medical condition described herein.
        Ex Vivo Expansion of T-Regulatory Cells Using Tregitopes
  10              In another aspect, the invention provides ex vivo methods for the expansion
        of regulatory T-cells. In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of
        expanding regulatory T-cells in a biological sample, the method comprising: (a)
        providing a biological sample from a subject; (b) isolating regulatory T-cells from the
        biological sample; and contacting the isolated regulatory T-cells with an effective
  15    amount of a Tregitope composition of the invention under conditions wherein the
       T-regulatory cells increase in number to yield an expanded regulatory T-cell
        composition, thereby expanding the regulatory T-cells in the biological sample. In
       one embodiment, the method further comprises the step of administration of the
       expanded regulatory T-cell composition to a subject. In one embodiment, the
 20    subject administered the expanded regulatory T-cell composition is the same
       individual from which the original biological sample was obtained, e.g., by
       autologous transplantation of the expanded regulatory T-cell composition
       (Ruitenberg, J. et aL, BMC Immunol., 7:11, 2006).
       In Vitro Uses of Tregitope Compositions
 25              In another aspect, the invention provides the use of the Tregitope
       compositions of the invention as reagents in the study of regulatory T-cell function
       in in vitro experimental models. In one embodiment, the invention provides in vitro
       methods for stimulation of regulatory T-cells in a biological sample, the method
       comprising: (a) providing a biological sample from a subject; (b) isolating regulatory
 30    T-cells from the biological sample; and contacting the isolated regulatory T-cells
       with an effective amount of a Tregitope composition of the invention under
       conditions wherein the T-regulatory cells are stimulated to alter one or more
       biological function, thereby stimulating the regulatory T-cells in the biological
       sample. In one embodiment, the invention provides in vitro methods for the
 35    measurement of binding Tregitope to a regulatory T-cells or fragment thereof.
BOST299675.1                                        35

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
                 The examples that follow are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the
         invention in any manner. In light of the present disclosure, numerous embodiments
         within the scope of the claims will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.
                                           EXEMPLIFICATION
   5             Tregitopes were (1) identified using the T cell epitope mapping algorithm
         EpiMatrix, (2) confirmed to bind to soluble HLA, (3) proven to engage natural
         regulatory T cells, (4) proven to suppress the immune response to co-delivered
         antigens ex vivo (in human PBMC) and (3) proven to suppress the immune
         response to co-delivered antigens in vivo (in mice). The methods for these
  10     discoveries are outlined below followed by the corresponding results. .
         (1) Methods for the identification of T cell epitopes and T cell epitope clusters
                 T cells specifically recognize epitopes presented by antigen presenting cells
        (APCs) in the context of MHC (Major Histocompatibility Complex) Class 11
        molecules. These T-helper epitopes can be represented as linear sequences
  15    comprising 7 to 30 contiguous amino acids that fit into the MHC Class 11binding
        groove. A number of computer algorithms have been developed and used for
        detecting Class 11epitopes within protein molecules of various origins (De Groot, A.
        et al., AIDS Res. Hum. Retroviruses, 13: 539-541, 1997; Schafer, J. et al., Vaccine,
        16:1880-1884, 1998; De Groot, A. et al., Vaccine, 19:4385-95, 2001; De Groot, A.
 20     et al., Vaccine, 21:4486-504, 2003). These "in silicon" predictions of T-helper
        epitopes have been successfully applied to the design of vaccines and the
        deimmunization of therapeutic proteins.
                 The EpiMatrix system is a tool for predicting class I and class 1Iepitopes.
        The algorithm uses matrices for prediction of 9- and 10-mer peptides binding to
 25     HLA molecules. Each matrix is based on position-specific coefficients related to
        amino acid binding affinities that are elucidated by a method similar to, but not
        identical to, the pocket profile method (Sturniolo, T. et al., Nat. Biotechnol., 17:555
        561, 1999). The EpiMatrix system has been used to prospectively predict a large
        number of epitopes that have been confirmed in vitro and in vivo. The entire amino
 30    acid of any given sequence is first parsed into overlapping 9-mer frames where
       each frame overlaps the last by eight amino acids. Each frame is then scored for
       predicted affinity to each of eight common Class II HLA haplotypes (DRB1*0101,
       DRB1*0301, DRB1*0401, DRB1*0701, DRB1*0801, DRB1*1101, DRB1*1301, and
       DRB1*1501). Due to their prevalence and their difference from each other, these
 35    eight alleles cover around 97% of human populations worldwide. EpiMatrix raw
BOST 299675.1                                       36

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
         scores are then normalized with respect to a score distribution derived from a very
         large set of randomly generated peptide sequences. The resulting "Z" scores are
         normally distributed and directly comparable across alleles.
                 EpiMatrix peptide scoring. It was determined that any peptide scoring
   5    above 1.64 on the EpiMatrix "Zn scale (approximately the top 5% of any given
        peptide set) has a significant chance of binding to the MHC molecule for which it
        was predicted. Peptides scoring above 2.32 on the scale (the top 1%) are
        extremely likely to bind; most published T cell epitopes fall within this range of
        scores. Previous studies have also demonstrated that EpiMatrix accurately predicts
  10    published MHC ligands and T cell epitopes.
                 Identificationof promiscuous T cell Epitope Clusters. Following epitope
        mapping, the result set produced by the EpiMatrix algorithm is screened for the
        presence of T cell epitope clusters and EpiBars. Potential T cell epitopes are not
        randomly distributed throughout protein sequences but instead tend to "cluster." T
  15    cell epitope "clusters" range from 9 to roughly 30 amino acids in length and,
        considering their affinity to multiple alleles and across multiple frames, contain
       anywhere from 4 to 40 binding motifs. Using a proprietary algorithm know as
       ClustiMer, putative T cell epitope clusters are identified. Briefly, the EpiMatrix
       scores of each 9-mer peptide analyzed are aggregated and checked against a
 20    statistically derived threshold value. High scoring 9-mers are then extended one
       amino acid at a time. The scores of the extended sequences are then re
       aggregated and compared to a revised threshold value. The process is repeated
       until the proposed extension no longer improves the overall score of the cluster.
       Tregitope(s) identified in the present studies were identified by the ClustiMer
 25    algorithm as T cell epitope clusters. They contain significant numbers of putative T
       cell epitopes and EpiBars indicating a high potential for MHC binding and T cell
       reactivity.
       (2) Methods for the assessment of peptide synthesis and binding to soluble MHC.
                Synthesis of peptides. Tregitopes can be produced by direct chemical
 30    synthesis or by recombinant methods (Sambrook et at., Molecular Cloning: A
       Laboratory Manual, 2 ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, (1989)). Peptides
       corresponding to the Tregitopes of the invention were prepared by
       9-fluoronylmethoxycarbonyl (Fmoc) synthesis at New England peptide and on an
       automated Rainen Symphony/Protein Technologies synthesizer (Synpep, Dublin,
BOST299675.1                                         37

      WO 2008/094538                                                        PCT/US2008/001148
         CA). The peptides were delivered >80% pure as ascertained by HPLC, mass
         spectrometry and UV scan (ensuring purity, mass and spectrum, respectively).
                  Binding of produced peptides. Non-biotinylated test peptide is
         suspended in a 96-well polypropylene plate in final concentrations ranging from
    5    0.1 IM - 400 pM in triplicate wells. Purified recombinant HLA Class Il molecules in
         a solution containing 1 mM PefaBloc, 0.75% n-octyl-B-D-glucopyranoside in
         150 mM citrate-phosphate buffer (pH 5.4), were then added to these wells at a final
         concentration of 200 ng/well. The 96-well plates are incubated at 37*C in 6% CO2
        for 45 minutes. Following the incubation, biotinylated Flu HA peptide 307-319 (or
  10     another suitable control peptide) is added to a final concentration of 0.1 pM per well
        and incubated at 37 0 C for 20 hours. The contents of each well are then added to a
        96-well high binding ELISA plate previously coated with the anti-human HLA-DR
        L243 capture antibody (Becton Dickenson) and incubated at 40 C for 20 hours. The
        plate was then developed by the addition of 100 jl (10 pig/ml) of Europium-labeled
  15    Streptavidin (Perkin-Elmer) and 100 pal Enhancement Buffer (Perkin-Elmer) to each
        well. The reaction was incubated in the dark at room temperature for 15-30
        minutes and then fluorescence was measured on a Wallac Victor 3-V time-resolved
        fluourometer. IC50 values were then calculated by non-linear regression analysis
        using the SigmaPlot analysis program. Based on comparisons with known
  20    peptides, an IC50 of 250 pM or more is indicative of weak binding and an IC5 o of
        400 jM or more is indicative of a non-binding interaction.
        (3) Methods for assessing the ability of peptides to engage natural regulatory T
        cells.
                 T-cell isolation. This research program involves donated blood obtained
 25     from the Rhode Island Blood Bank in Providence, blood from volunteers recruited at
        Clinical Partners, Johnston, Rhode Island, blood obtained from volunteers recruited
        by Stallergenes, Paris, France, and samples obtained from a commercial supplier.
        Donor blood was obtained in accordance with all federal guidelines and in
        accordance with Stallergenes and EpiVax institutional policies. The protocol for
 30     obtaining donor blood was approved by the respective institutional review boards.
        Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were isolated according to the
        Accuspin protocol (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO). Cryopreserved PBMC from dust
        mite-allergic individuals were obtained from Cellular Technologies Ltd. (Cleveland,
        Ohio).
BOST_299675.1                                      38

   WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
                  Natural T reg assay. Human PBMCS are stimulated directly ex vivo for 4
          days in the presence of tetanus toxin peptide TT830- 4 4 alone, Tregitope alone,
          phytohemagglutinin alone (a mitogenic positive control) or no stimulus. 1 x 106
          cells were stained with anti-CD4-FITC (clone RPA-T4; eBioscience) and anti-CD25
   5      APC (clone BC96; eBioscience) antibodies for 30 minutes on ice in Flow Staining
          Buffer (eBioscience) and washed twice with buffer. Following cell surface staining,
          cells are fixed and permeabilized (eBioscience) and stained intracellulary for
          FOXp3 (clone PCH101; eBioscience) following manufacturer's protocol. The
         frequency of FOXp3 positive CD4+/CD25+ T cells under various culture conditions
  10     is enumerated by the Flowjo analysis software. T cell activation is indicated by
         increases in CD4+CD25+ expression, which, when accompanied by an increase in
         FOXp3 expression, is indicative that the activated cells are regulatory.
         (4) Methods for assessing the ability of peptides to suppress the response to co
         administered antigens ex vivo.
  15              Bystander suppression assay. Isolated PBMCs were cultured for 8 days
        at 37"C 5% CO 2 in presence of either an immunogenic antigen alone or that antigen
         in the presence of Tregitope peptide. Test antigens were added at 10 ptg/ml and
         include 1) classic antigens such as, for example, tetanus toxin peptide TT 830-8 4 4 ,
        influenza hemagglutinin peptide 307-319, vaccinia peptide epitopes and the CEF
 20     positive control peptide pool (NIH AIDS Research & Reference Reagent Program at
        the website aidsreagent.org; Currier, J. et al., J. Immunol. Methods, 260:157-72,
        2002; Mwau, M. et al., AIDS Res. Hum. Retroviruses, 18:611-8, 2002), 2) protein
        therapeutics such as Botulinum Neurotoxin A, autologous autoantigens such as
        Thyroid Hormone Stimulating hormone and complement component C3d. Test
 25     antigens also included allergens: birch tree pollen antigen Betv1, House dust mite
        lysate and the purified house dust mite antigen, Der P2. Recombinant IL-2
        (10 IU/ml) and IL-7 (20 ng/ml) were added to PBMC cultures on day 2. After 8 days
        of stimulation, cells were harvested and washed several times with PBS and
        assayed according to the human cytokine release assays described below.
 30              Human IFN-yELISpot. IFN-y ELISpot assays are performed using Human
        IFN-y ELISpot kits purchased from Mabtech. Target peptides are added at
        10 pg/ml to triplicate wells containing 250,000 human peripheral blood mononuclear
        cells in RPM11640 with 10% human serum and incubated for eighteen to twenty-two
        hours at 370C under a 5% CO 2 atmosphere. Triplicate wells are plated with PHA at
 35     10 pg/mL. Six wells with no peptide are used for background determination. A
BOST_299675.1                                      39

     WO 2008/094538                                                             PCT/US2008/001148
         response is considered positive if the number of spots in the peptide test wells is
         statistically different (p < 0.05) from that of the control wells by the Mann-Whitney U
         test. In general, responses are considered positive if the number of spots is at least
         four times background and greater than 50 spots per one million cells over
   5     background (1 response over background per 20,000 splenocytes). Results are
        recorded as the average number of spots over background and adjusted to spots
        per one million cells seeded. Suppression rates of 10% or greater, when
        determined to be statistically significant, are considered statistically significant.
                  Human IFN-ryELISpot. IFN-y ELISpot assays are performed using Human
  10    IL-4 ELISpot kits purchased from Mabtech. Target peptides are added at 10 pg/ml
        to triplicate wells containing 250,000 human peripheral blood mononuclear cells in
        RPM11640 with 10% human serum and incubated for eighteen to twenty-two hours
        at 37 0 C under a 5% CO2 atmosphere. Triplicate wells are plated with PHA at
        10 pg/mL. Six wells with no peptide are used for background determination. A
  15    response is considered positive if the number of spots in the peptide test wells is
        statistically different (p < 0.05) from that of the control wells by the Mann-Whitney U
        test. In general, responses are considered positive if the number of spots is at least
        four times background and greater than 50 spots per one million cells over
        background (1 response over background per 20,000 splenocytes). Results are
 20     recorded as the average number of spots over background and adjusted to spots
        per one million cells seeded. Suppression rates of 10% or greater, when
        determined to be statistically significant, are considered statistically significant.
                 Human IL-4 ELiSpot. IL-4 ELISpot assays are performed using Human
        IL-4 ELISpot kits purchased from Mabtech. Target peptides are added at 10 pg/ml
 25    to triplicate wells containing 250,000 human peripheral blood mononuclear cells in
        RPM11640 with 10% human serum and incubated for eighteen to twenty-two hours
       at 37 0C under a 5% CO2 atmosphere. Triplicate wells are plated with PHA at
       2 pg/mL. Six wells with no peptide are used for background determination.
       Statistical tests were carried out using a variant permutation test (Hudgens, M. et
 30    al., J. Immunol. Methods, 288:19-34, 2004). A response is considered positive if
       the number of spots in the peptide test wells is statistically different (p < 0.01) from
       that of the control wells. In general, responses are considered positive if the
       number of spots is at least four times background and greater than 50 spots per
       one million cells over background (1 response over background per 20,000
 35    splenocytes). Results are recorded as the average number of spots over
BOST_299675.1                                        40

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
          background and adjusted to spots per one million cells seeded. Suppression rates
         of 10% or greater, when determined to be statistically significant, are considered
         significant.
                 Human IFN-yELISA. Target peptides are added at 10 pg/ml to cultures
   5     containing human peripheral blood mononuclear cells in RPMI1640 with 10%
         human serum and incubated for eighteen to twenty-two hours at 37*C under a 5%
         CO2 atmosphere. Cultures stimulated with PHA at 10 fig/mL or with no peptide are
         used as controls. Human IFN-y quantitative sandwich ELISAs were performed
         using R&D Systems Quantikine ELISA kits. A polyclonal antibody specific for IFN-y
  10     is pre-coated onto a 96-well microtiter plate. Kit-provided standards and cell
         supernatant samples including PHA and no-peptide controls (100 pl) are pipetted
         into the wells and any IFN-y present is bound by the immobilized antibody over 2
         hours at room temperature. After washing away unbound substances, an enzyme
         linked polyclonal antibody specific for IFN-y is added to the wells for a two hour
  15    incubation at room temperature. Following a wash to remove any unbound
        antibody-enzyme reagent, a substrate solution is added to the wells for 30 minutes
        and color developed in proportion to the amount of bound IFN-y. The color
        development is stopped and the intensity of the color at 450 nm measured on a
        Wallac Victor3. Correction for optical imperfections in the plate is made by
 20     subtraction of intensities at 540 nm from the 450 nm values. Differences in cytokine
        levels between experimental groups were evaluated by t-test. A response is
        considered positive if the observed difference in cytokine expression between the
        experimental and control wells is statistically different (p < 0.01).
                 Multiplexed human cytokine/chemokineELISA. Supernatants from
 25     PBMC cultures are evaluated for cytokines and chemokine levels using the
        SearchLight multiplex ELISA technology. Human cytokines that are measured
        include IL-1p, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12p40, IL-12p70, TNFa and TGFP.
        Human chemokines that are measured include MCP-1, MIP-1 a and MIP-1 P.
        SearchLight Proteomic Arrays are a quantitative multiplexed sandwich ELISA
 30     containing up to 16 different capture antibodies spotted on the bottom of a 96-well
        polystyrene microtiter plate. Each antibody captures specific protein detected with
       a biotinylated antibody, followed by the addition of streptavidin-HRP and lastly,
       SuperSignal ELISA Femto Chemiluminescent substrate detected with a charge
       coupled device (CCD) camera. Differences in cytokine levels between
 35    experimental groups were evaluated by t-test. A response is considered positive if
BOST_299675.1                                        41

   WO 2008/094538                                                            PCT/US2008/001148
         the observed difference in cytokine expression between the experimental and
         control wells is statistically different (p < 0.01).
                  Cell separations/depletionsmethods. Human Treg cell populations are
         depleted or positively isolated from PBMC using the invitrogen dynabeads system
   5     (for human CD4 and CD25) according to manufacturer's instructions (InVitrogen,
         Carlsbad, California).
         (5) Methods for the suppression of response to co-administered antigens in vivo.
                 To measure the immunosuppressive effects of Tregitopes on protein
         induced effector responses in a living system, experiments are performed using a
  10     murine model. Groups of mice are immunized with an antigen alone, a cocktail of
         antigen and tregitope, or with an antigen fused to tregitope. A negative control
         group (solvent alone) is also assessed. One week following the final injection, the
         mice are sacrificed in accordance with all institutional and federal guidelines and
         spleens harvested. Freshly isolated mouse splenocytes are used to assay the
  15     cellular immune response in vivo. Single splenocyte suspensions are prepared and
         used in the assays below. Whole blood is also obtained by cardiac puncture and
        serum collected for use in quantifying antibody response to the co-administered
        antigen.
                 Murine IFN-yELISpot. IFN-y ELISpot assays are performed using murine
 20     IFN-y ELISpot kits purchased from Mabtech. Target peptides are added at
         10 pg/ml to tripliocate wells containing 300,000 murine splenocytes (in RPMl1640
        with 10% FCS) and incubated for eighteen to twenty-two hours at 37*C under a 5%
        C02   atmosphere. Triplicate wells are plated with ConA at 10 pg/mL. Six wells with
        no peptide are used for background determination. A response is considered
 25     positive if the number of spots in the peptide test wells is statistically different
        (p < 0.05) from that of the control wells by the Mann-Whitney U test. In general,
        responses are considered positive if the number of spots is at least four times
        background and greater than 50 spots per one million cells over background (1
        response over background per 20,000 splenocytes). Results are recorded as the
 30     average number of spots over background and adjusted to spots per one million
        cells seeded.
                 Murine IL-4 ELISpot. IL-4 ELISpot assays are performed using murine IL-4
        ELISpot kits purchased from Mabtech. Target peptides are added at 10 pg/ml to
       triplicate wells containing 300,000 murine splenocytes (in RPM11640 with 10%
 35     FCS) and incubated for eighteen to twenty-two hours at 370C under a 5% C02
BOST_299675.1                                         42

     WO 2008/094538                                                             PCT/US2008/001148
         atmosphere. Triplicate wells are plated with ConA at 10 pg/mL. Six wells with no
         peptide are used for background determination. Statistical tests were carried out
         using a variant permutation test (Hudgens, M. et al., J. Immunol. Methods, 288:19
         34, 2004). A response is considered positive if the number of spots in the peptide
   5    test wells is statistically different (p < 0.01) from that of the control wells. In general,
         responses are considered positive if the number of spots is at least four times
         background and greater than 50 spots per one million cells over background (1
        response over background per 20,000 splenocytes). Results are recorded as the
        average number of spots over background and adjusted to spots per one million
  10    cells seeded.
                 Murine IFN-yELISA. Target peptides are added at 10 pg/ml to cultures
        containing human peripheral blood mononuclear cells in RPMI1640 with 10%
        human serum and incubated for eighteen to twenty-two hours at 370 C under a 5%
        CO 2 atmosphere. Cultures stimulated with PHA at 10 Ag/mL or with no peptide are
  15    used as controls. Mouse IFN-y quantitative sandwich ELISAs were performed
        using R&D Systems Quantikine ELISA kits. A polyclonal antibody specific for IFN-y
        is pre-coated onto a 96-well microtiter plate. Kit-provided standards and cell
        supernatant samples including PHA and no-peptide controls (100 Pl) are pipetted
        into the wells and any IFN-y present is bound by the immobilized antibody over two
 20     hours at room temperature. After washing away unbound substances, an enzyme
        linked polyclonal antibody specific for IFN-y is added to the wells for a two hour
       incubation at room temperature. Following a wash to remove any unbound
       antibody-enzyme reagent, a substrate solution is added to the wells for 30 minutes
       and color developed in proportion to the amount of bound IFN-y. The color
 25    development is stopped and the intensity of the color at 450 nm measured on a
       Wallac Victor3. Correction for optical imperfections in the plate is made by
       subtraction of intensities at 540 nm from the 450 nm values. Differences in cytokine
       levels between experimental groups were evaluated by t-test. A response is
       considered positive if the observed difference in cytokine expression between the
 30    experimental and control wells is statistically different (p < 0.01).
                Flow Cytometry. Splenocytes are plated in 96-well tissue culture plates at
       2 x 106 cells/well in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10% FCS, 100 U/mL penicillin,
       100 jig/mL streptomycin sulfate. An unstimulated and positive control (ConA) are
       included in each assay. Cells are incubated overnight at 37"C at 5% C02.
 35    Following incubation, the cells are washed in PBS containing 1% bovine serum
BOST299675.1                                          43

     WO 2008/094538                                                        PCT/US2008/001148
         albumin and stained with surface antibodies (e.g., CD4, CD25). Cells are then
        washed and fixed using the Cytofix/Cytoperm kit (BD PharMingen) according to
         manufacturer's instructions. Following fixation, the cells are washed twice in
        Cytoperm buffer and stained with antibodies against intracellular markers (e.g.,
   5    FOXp3, IL-10). Following staining, the cells are washed and fixed with PBS
        containing 1% paraformaldehyde in preparation for flow cytometry. Cells are
        analyzed on a BD Facscalibur machine. 20,000 events are collected per sample.
        Data analysis is performed using FloJo software. All data are background
        subtracted. Comparisons between groups are based on a Wilcoxon rank sum test.
  10    A significance of p < 0.05 is applied for pairwise comparisons and p < 0.01 is used
        for multiple comparisons.
                Cell separations/depletionsmethods. Murine Treg cell populations are
        depleted or positively isolated from PBMC using the InVitrogen dynabeads system
        (for murine CD4 and CD25) according to manufacturer's instructions (InVitrogen,
  15    Carlsbad, California).
                Quantificationof antibodiesagainst co administered antigen.
        Quantification of IgG antibody to antigens was determined by antibody-capture
        ELISA. Antigen (10 pg/mL) is dissolved in carbonate buffer and placed into a 96
       well microtiter plate overnight at 40 C. The plates were then washed with
 20    phosphate-buffered saline containing 0.05% Tween 20 (PBST) and blocked for
       three hours at room temperature with 5% fetal bovine serum (FBS; Gibco) in PBS.
       Serial dilutions of sera in 0.5% FBS/PBS are added to the plates and incubated at
       room temperature for two hours. The microtiter plates are then washed with PBST
       and 100 pL goat anti-mouse IgG (gamma-chain specific) conjugated to horseradish
 25    peroxidase (Southern Biotechnology Associates) diluted 1:10000 in 0.5% FBS/PBS
       is added to each well. Microtiter plates are washed in PBST and then developed
       with 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB; Moss). Absorbances were read at a
       wavelength of 450 nm measured on a Wallac Victor3. Correction for optical
       imperfections in the plate is made by subtraction of intensities at 540 nm from the
 30    450 nm values.
       Example 1. Identification of a Tregitope Composition
               Identificationof epitopes in Human IgG Proteins as regulatory. After
       evaluating a large number of antibodies for immunogenic potential, a recurring
       pattern was observed. Certain epitope clusters were occurring in multiple
 35    antibodies. Not wishing to be bound by theory, it was reasoned that highly
BOST299675.1                                      44

     WO 2008/094538                                                       PCT/US2008/001148
        conserved epitope clusters were unlikely to be promoting anti-antibody immune
         responses. It was further reasoned that these recurring patterns might be either
        passively tolerated by the immune system or actively engaging regulatory T cells
        responsible for suppressing anti-antibody immune response. Comparing the
   5    sequences of the recurring epitope clusters to the protein database at GenBank
        established 19 regions contained in the sequences of igG antibodies that were both
        conserved and potentially capable of stimulating regulatory T cells (See Table 2).
                According to the EpiMatrix system, all 19 of these regions have significant
        immune stimulatory potential, each one containing at least one and at most 14
  10    binding motifs and scoring between one and 25 on the EpiVax immunogenicity
        scale. In addition several of these sequences contained one or more "EpiBars".
        EpiBars are single 9 mer frames that are expected to bind to at least 4 different
        Class I HLA. EpiBars are a marker for increased immuno-stimulatory potential.
BOST_299675.1                                   45

     WO 2008/094538                                                                      PCT/US2008/001148
                            Table 2: Treqitopes of the Invention and their EpiMatrix Scores
                    Cluster                                                         Peptide ID    EpiMatrix Number
   Cluster Source  Location               Cluster Sequence                SEQ        crosswalk     Cluster  of HLA
        Protein   In protein                                            ID NO                       Score   binding
       IgGHC        289-309      EEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDW                      4     Tregitope-289    23.85      14
       IgGHC        167-194      PAVLQSSGLYSLSSVVTVPSSSLGTQ                 5     Tregitope-167    16.74      14
       IgGHV           9-23      PGLVRPSQTLSLTCT                            6     Tregitope-009    12.98       6
       IgG_-HV         9-29      GGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTF                      7                       8.68       7
       IgGHV           9-29      GGLVQPGRSLRLSCAASGFTF                      8                       8.68       7
       IgGHV          16-30      GASVKVSCKASGYTF                            9                       7.36       4
       IgGHV          29-43      WSWVRQPPGRGLEWI                           10     Tregitope-029    22.25      12
       IgGHV          29-43      WSWIRQPPGKGLEWI                           11                      12.74       7
       IgGHV          29-43      MHWVRQAPGKGLEWV                           12                      22.81      11
       IgGHV          29-43      MHWVRQAPGQGLEWM                           13                      24.92      12
       IgGHV          74-94      VDTSKNQFSLRLSSVTAADTA                     14     Tregitope-074    12.93      10
       IgGHV         88-108      NTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCA                     15                       23.7      13
       IgGHV        106-119      FQHWGQGTLVTVSS                            16     Tregitope-106    -0.89       0
       IgGHV        106-119      FDLWGRGTLVTVSS                            17                      -0.89       0
       IgGHV        106-119      FDIWGQGTMVTVSS                            18                      -0.89       0
       IgGHV        106-119      FDYWGQGTLVTVSS                            19                      -0.89       0
       IgGHV        106-119      FDPWGQGTLVTVSS                           20                       -0.89       0
       IgGHV        106-119      MDVWGQGTLVTVSS                           21                       -0.89       0
       IgGHV        106-119      MDVWGQGTTVTVSS                           22                       8.76        5
      IqG LCK       134-157      LNNFYPREAKVQWKVDNALQSGNS                 23     Tregitope-134     13.02      10
      IgG LCK      294-307       KVYACEVTHQGLSS                           24     Tregitope-294      1.69       1
      IgG LV           1-13      DIQMTQSPSSLSA                            25                       9.49        5
      IgG LV           1-13      EIVLTQSPGTLSL                            26                        7.39       4
      IgG LVK        16-30       GDRVTITCRASQGIS                          27                        5.61       3
      IgG LVx        41-54       LAWYQQKPGKAPKL                           28                       6.99        4
      IqG LVK        41-54       LAWYQQKPGQAPRL                           29                       6.99        4
      IPG LV         52-66       LLIYGASSRATGIPD                          30                       8.11        4
      IgG LV         84-98      GTDFTLTISSLQPED                           31                       7.57        4
      IpG  LVX        1-13      SYELTQPPSVSVS                             32                       5.31        3
      IgG  LVX       16-30      GQSITISCTGTSSDV                           33                       6.29        4
      IgG  LVX       39-52      VSWYQQHPGKAPKL                            34                       6.99        4
      IgG  LVX       39-52      VHWYQQKPGQAPVL                            35                       6.99        4
      lgG LVX        39-52      VSWYQQLPGTAPKL                            36                       6.99        4
      IgG LVX        52-66      LMIYEVSNRPSGVPD                           37                       5.71        3
      Albumin      159-177      LKKYLYEIARRHPYFYAPE                       38                      18.37       11
      Albumin      175-196      APELLFFAKRYKAAFTECCQAA                    39                      30.75       18
      Albumin      362-382      HPDYSVVLLLRLAKTYETTLE                     40                      29.69       17
      Albumin      362-376      HPDYSVVLLLRLAKT                           41     Tregitope-362     10.7        7
      Albumin      369-382                 LLLRLAKTYETTLE                 42     Tregitope-369    17.96        9
      Albumin      422-466      LGEYKFQNALLVRYTKKVPQVSTPT                 43     Tregitope-422    39.71       22
     Collagen     1345-1366     PADVAIQLTFLRLMSTEASQNI                    44                      24.31       13
     Collagen     1381-1399     TGNLKKALLLQGSNEIEIR                       45                      16.06       10
     Collagen     1113-1128     DGDFYRADQPRSAPSL                          46                      19.74       10
     Collagen     1247-1271     SKEMATQLAFMRLLANYASQNITYH                 47                      25.51       16
    Fibrinogen     149-167      VQHIQLLQKNVRAQLVDMK                       48                      23.95       13
    Fibrinogen     705-727      GEFWLGNDYLHLLTQRGSVLRVE                   49                        22        13
    Fibrinogen     189-209      QSGLYFIKPLKANQQFLVYCE                     50                      27.16       16
    Fibrinogen     250-270      TEFWLGNEKIHLISTQSAIPY                     51                      19.08       12
    Haptoglobin    287-310      NANFKFTDHLKYVMLPVADQDQCIR                 52                        25        15
    Osteocalcin      42-67      GSEVVKRPRRYLYQWLGAPVPYPDPL                53                      27.96       17
   Prostaglandin   124-139      PCQWWRPTTTSTRCCT                          54                      15.32        9
   Prostaglandin   139-160      PGEDFRMATLYSRTQTPRAELK                    55                      22.14       14
  SuperoxideDismu  153-170      DGSLWRYRAGLAASLAGP                        56                      26.13       13
  SuperoxideDismu   78-98       VTGVVLFRQLAPRAKLDAFFA                     57                      30.46       18
    Transferrin     61-79       KASYLDCIRAIAANEADAV                       58                      13.77        8
BOST299675.1                                              46

     WO 2008/094538                                                                                            PCT/US2008/001148
                 Conservation. All the IgG derived putative Tregitope sequences were
        compared to the germline sequences of IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgA, IgE, lgD and
        IgM through visual inspection. The IgG-derived Tregitopes were found to be highly
        conserved in the germline sequences of IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4. No homology
   5    was found in the germline sequences of IgA, IgE, IgD or IgM. The sequences of
        the additional Tregitopes are also highly conserved among (variants of human
        proteins) and are generally present in the circulation in large amounts.
                 Species. Homology analysis of the IgG-derived Tregitopes to non-human
        species was performed. The sequences were uploaded into the Basic Local
  10    Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) via the NCBI website (ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast). The
        BLAST program compares protein sequences to sequence databases and
        calculates the statistical significance of matches in order to find regions of local
        similarity between sequences. The IgG-derived Tregitopes were found to be
        conserved across non-human species such as mouse, rat, cat, camel, cow and
 15     non-human primates. Table 3 illustrates a BLAST report of Tregitope-289 (SEQ
        NO: 4).
                        Table 3. Homology of Tregitope 289 (SEQ ID NO4) to other organisms.
                      13-------                                         -        AAGO0448          [synthetic construct]
                     1           -Q----- --------                                  IFRT-C
                      1       ---------------- T----                             AAM93487        [Papio anubis anubis]
                      1-------1 -----------------                                AAli-424                  [Mus sp.]
                      1          ------- F-v------ - -- --                       XP522970             [Pan troglodytes]
                     6           --- F ------                                    AAT11503.    [Cercocebus torquatus atys]
                     1             --- F------------ ----                      XP001168435            [Pan troglodytes]
                     4           -     ---------     ---- PI- -----              BAA32230                [Felis catus]
                     1           -- F---F-                    v---             XP001168196            [Pan troglodytes]
                     3.                      ------- 0----                   .   CAB64864       [Camelusdromedardus]
                     7          -T -------------- - ----                         AAT11502     [Cercocebus torquatus atys]
                                                -.. .ACj                                9990       :[Pongo pygmaeus]
                    19              ----------             PIo----               AAA51294
                                                         -- T----         --   -TAATi1iO4    [Cercobebustorquatus atys]
                     2              ---------               - -I- ----           CAC44624             [Equus caballus]
                                    _P -7              ---        -    -         AAM9*49         [Paploanubit s]
                            -                  ----     -RIO- -- -               AAP82181             [Equus caballus]
                   .3               -.                                           AAT65197         [Tursiopsetruncatus]
                     5          -                    -ro ----                    AAA60738
                     1__-                            -- P-o...-   - --           C iAC44761          [EquuScabaluS]
                     6     -    - ---               -RIO-         - --           AAC48761               [Bos taurus]
                     1          -0-F ------------PIE----                         AA35304             [    nis famllaris]
                     1          ---- ----------            PIK----               AAA62733
                     1          --- F------?M                     -                1 GY-B
                     1          ---- a-- -----               - -          -      AAL35302            [Canis familiarls]
                     2          -                ------ P1O----                  AAA51281              [Mustela vison]
                     1          -Q-F-A-Po-                        - --           AAT65196         [Turslops truncatus]
                     2            ----        P----PIO---.                         S31459
BOST_299675.1                                                                   47

   WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
                   Identificationof regulatoryepitopes in common circulatinghuman
          proteins. In a subsequent analysis EpiVax identified a set of common and
         circulating proteins that might also contain Tregitopes. The analyzed protein set
          included isolates of human: Actin, Albumin, Collagen, Fibrinogen, Haptoglobin,
   5      Keratin, Myosin, Osteocalcin, Prostaglandin, Superoxide Dismutase, Titin and
         Transferrin. Common isolates of each protein were analyzed via EpiMatrix and
         ClustiMer as described above and a set of high scoring and highly conserved
         putative T cell epitope clusters was selected for further analysis. See Table 2, SEQ
         ID NOS:38-58.
  10     Example 2. Synthesis and characterization of a Tregitope Composition by Binding
         to HLA Class I Molecules
                  Soluble MHC binding assays were performed on the synthetic IgG
         Tregitopes according to the methods described above. IC5o values (pIM) were
         derived by a six point inhibition curve of a strong binding control peptide. The
  15     Tregitopes identified by in silico analysis bound to human MHC molecules. See
        Table 4 below.
                     Table 4: Binding affinity of Tregitopes to each of 4 common HLA
                      PEPTIDE        DRB*0101 DRB*0401 DRB*0701             DRB*1501
                    Tregitope-009       None
                    Tregitope-029
                    Tregitope-074
                    Tregitope-167
                    Tregitope-289
                    Tregitope-134       Non
                  Additionalassays related to structuralmodificationsto amino and
        carboxy termini. Modifications to the amino and caboxy termini of peptides have
 20     been shown to alter MHC binding, proteolytic degradation and T cell activation
        (Maillere, B. et al., Mol. Immune., 32:1377-85, 1995; Allen, P. et al., Int. Immunol.,
        1:141-50, 1989). If the observed activation of nTregs were indeed due to
        Tregitope-specific TCR recognition, then fine alterations at the carboxy terminus of
        the Tregitope peptide should lead to differential suppressive effects. The same
 25     Tregitope peptide sequence was synthesized with and without a C-terminal amide
        cap. The uncapped peptide was evaluated for affinity to DRB1*0101 and
        DRB1*1501 in HLA binding assays and shown to bind to both alleles with higher
        affinity than did the capped peptide. Using PBMC from a DRB1*0101 subject, the
BOST_299675.1                                        48

    WO 2008/094538                                                        PCT/US2008/001148
         ability of Tregitope peptides (capped and uncapped) to suppress responses to co
         incubated CEF, a MHC class I immunogenic peptide pool, was then investigated.
         The cells were stimulated on day 1 and cultured for 6 days. On day 7 the cells
         were collected and half were stained for CD4, CD25 and CD127 and analyzed by
   5     flow cytometry. The remaining cells were added to an IFN-y ELISpot plate and re
         stimulated with CEF. The co-cultures with the C-terminal amide-capped Tregitope
         led to an increase in CD4+CD25+CD127low Tregs compared to the uncapped
         Tregitope-289 (FIG. 2, left panel). Consistent with previous studies that have
         shown that CD4+CD25+CD127low Tregs are highly suppressive, the capped
  10    Tregiotpe-289, but not the uncapped Tregitope-289, was able to suppress CEF
        specific IFN-y secretion (FIG. 2, right panel).
                 Subsequent analysis showed a small 1 dalton change between the capped
        and uncapped versions of Tregitope-289 (SEQ NO: 4). Tregitope-289 amidated
        peptide is 1 dalton smaller by mass spectrometry analysis. Amidation of the C
  15    terminus of Tregitope-289 is herein demonstrated to alter its binding and functional
        characteristics. Because the capped version of Tregitope-289 peptide
        demonstrated better functionality, the capped (amidated) peptide was used in all
        subsequent assays. In further support, results displayed here for Tregitope-289
        refer to the capped version. Both capped and uncapped versions of the Tregitopes
 20     described herein are encompassed by the present invention.
        Example 3. Characterization of a Tregitope Composition by stimulation of Natural
        Regulatory T cells.
                 Human PBMCS were stimulated directly ex vivo for 4 days in the presence
        of tetanus toxin peptide TT8 30-844 alone, Tregitope-289 alone, phytohemagglutinin (a
 25     mitogenic positive control) alone, or no stimulus. 1 x 106 cells were stained with
        anti-CD4-FITC (clone RPA-T4; eBioscience) and anti-CD25-APC (clone BC96;
        eBioscience) antibodies for 30 minutes on ice in Flow Staining Buffer (eBioscience)
        and washed twice with buffer. Following cell-surface staining, cells were fixed and
        permeabilized (eBioscience) and stained intracellulary for Foxp3 (clone PCH101;
 30     eBioscience) following manufacturer's protocol. The frequency of FoxP3 positive
        CD4+/CD25+ T cells under various culture conditions was enumerated by Flowjo
        analysis software. There were similar increases in CD25 expression in both the
        Tetanus- and Tregitope-stimulated samples indicating T cell activation by both
        peptides (FIG. 3; results shown for Tregitope-289). Expression of FoxP3 within the
 35     CD4+CD25+ subset, however, differed significantly depending on the stimulus
BOST_299675.1                                       49

     WO 2008/094538                                                           PCT/US2008/001148
         used. Tetanus stimulation led to a 7% decrease in expression of FoxP3, whereas
         Tregitope stimulation led to a more than two-fold increase in expression, indicating
         Th and nTreg activation, respectively.
         Example 4. Characterization of a Tregitope composition by suppression of co
   5     administered antigen in vitro.
                  4A: Tregitope-167 and Tregitope-134 down-regulate effector responses and
         upregulate regulatory responses to coadministered antigens in vitro.
                  PBMCs were cultured for 8 days with either a) pool of immunogenic
         peptides alone, b) a pool of immunogenic peptides with hTregitope-167, or c) a pool
  10     of immunogenic peptides with hTregitope-134. Cells were harvested and washed
        with PBS Cells (2 x 105 cells/well) were plated into 96-well plate and re-stimulated
        with the immunogenic peptide pool alone, the immunogenic peptide pool and
        Tregitope, or no peptide (negative control) for 65 hours. Supernatants were
        analyzed by multiplexed ELISA analysis as described above. The co-incubation of
  15    Tregitope during the initial stimulation led to an increase in secretion of the
        regulatory cytokines and chemokines, IL-10 and MCP-1 and a decrease in the
        secretion of helper T cell cytokines and chemokines, IL-5, IL-6, IFN-y and MIP-1a
        demonstrating the ability of Tregitopes to engage and activate regulatory T cells
        (FIG. 4).
  20             4B: Tregitope-289 downregulates effector responses and upregulates
        regulatory responses to co-administered antigen in vitro.
                 PBMCs were cultured for 8 days with either a) pool of immunogenic
        peptides alone, b) a pool of immunogenic peptides with Tregitope-289, or b) a pool
        of immunogenic peptides withTregitope-289. The peptides in the immunogenic
 25     peptide pool were derived from C3d, an immunogenic autologous protein (Knopf, P.
        et al., ImmunoL. Cei/ Biol., 2008 Jan 8; doi: 10.1038/sj.icb.7100147). Cells were
        harvested and washed with PBS. As described, Cells (2 x 105 cells/well) were
        plated into 96-well plate and re-stimulated in triplicate wells with each condition:
        C3d pool alone, C3d pool + Tregitope, PHA control, or no peptide (negative control)
 30     for 65 hours. Supematants were analyzed by multiplexed ELISA analysis.
        Response to positive control PHA was robust following both culture conditions. The
       co-incubation of Tregitope during the initial stimulation led to an increase in
       secretion of the regulatory cytokine IL-10, a slight increase in the regulatory
       chemokine TGFp, and a decrease in the secretion of the helper T cell cytokines and
BOST_299675.1                                      50

    WO 2008/094538                                                         PCT/US2008/001148
         chemokines IFNy and MIP 1oa further demonstrating the ability of Tregitopes to
         engage and activate regulatory T cells (FIG. 5).
                 4C: A pool of Tregitopes downregulates effector auto-immune responses to
         co-administered antigen in vitro.
   5             Co-incubation with epitopes derived from TSHR, the target antigen of
         Graves' disease, suppresses immune response to the epitopes in PBMC from a
         patient with Graves' disease. PBMCs were cultured for 8 days with TSHR peptide
         pools (pool) with or without a pool of Tregitope peptides (Tregitope-1 34,
         Tregitope-1 67, Tregitope-289). Cells were harvested and washed with PBS. As
  10     described above, 2.5 x 105 cells were re-stimulated in an IL-4 ELISpot plate with
         either 1) individual TSHR epitopes + the pool of Tregitope-134, Tregitope-167,
         Tregitope-289), 2) a pool of TSHR epitopes + the pool of Tregitope-134,
         Tregitope-1 67, Tregitope-289 or 3) no stimulus control. Response to positive
         control PHA was robust following both culture conditions.
  15             The co-incubation of antigen (TSHR peptides) with Tregitope during re
        stimulation led to a significant decrease in IL-4 spot-forming cells. This data shows
        that Tregitopes suppress the cytokine secretion of effector T cells (FIG. 6).
                 4D: Individual Tregitopes downregulate effector responses to CEF, a pool of
        immunodominant co-administered peptide antigens in vitro.
 20              Co-incubation with Tregitope suppresses immune response to CEF, a pool
        of Immunodominant peptide epitopes derived from common pathogens. PBMCs
        were cultured for 8 days with or without individual Tregitope peptides:
        Tregitope-289, Tregitope 294, Tregitope-029, Tregitope-074, Tregitope-009. Cells
        were harvested and washed with PBS. As described above, 2.5 x 105 cells were
 25     re-stimulated in an IFN-y ELISpot plate with either CEF alone, PHA positive control
        (not shown) or no-stimulus control. Response to positive control PHA was robust
        following both. culture conditions.
                The co-incubation of antigen (CEF) with Tregitope during incubation led to a
        significant decrease in IFN-y spot-forming cells in response to restimulation with
 30     CEF. These data show that Tregitopes suppress the cytokine secretion of effector
       T cells (FIG. 7)
                4E: A pool of Tregitopes downregulates in vitro effector response to co
       administered therapeutic protein antigen.
BOST_299675.1                                      51

     WO 2008/094538                                                         PCT/US2008/001148
                   Co-incubation with Tregitope suppresses immune response to peptide
         epitopes derived from Botulinum neurotoxin, a protein used to treat dystonia
         (movement disorders). PBMCs from a subject with evidence of inhibitors (anti
         BoNT antibodies) were cultured for 8 days with or without a pool of Tregitope
   5     peptides (Tregitope-1 67, Tregitope-1 34, Tregitope-289). Cells were harvested and
         washed with PBS. As described above, 2.5 x 105 cells were re-stimulated in an
         IFN-y ELISpot plate with individual BoNT peptides, a pool of BoNT peptides, PHA
         positive control (not shown) or no-stimulus control. Peptides for which there was no
         significant baseline response are not shown. Response to positive control PHA
  10     was robust following both culture conditions.
                  The co-incubation of antigen (CEF) with Tregitope during incubation led to a
         significant decrease in IFN-y spot-forming cells in response to restimulation with
         CEF. These data show that Tregitopes suppress the cytokine secretion of effector
         T cells in response to an immunogenic therapeutic protein (FIG. 8 and Table 5).
  15
            Table 5. Interferon-y ELISpot responses to Botulinum Toxin Antigen stimulus following
                  incubation +/-Tregitopes (spot forming cells over no-restimulus background)
              After initial incubation, BoNT     BoNT-     BoNT-     BoNT-    BoNT-    BoNT      PHA
                restimulation with:       -L1       L2       L3        L4        L5    -Pool   control
                    Inuainwt        TA    522      29         14      434       247    1,1        ,0
         P value of pair wise companion 0.007     0003     0003      0.001    0.124    0.008    0.000
               Percent suppression       36%      50%       73%      47%       26%      59%      17%
                  4F: Tregitope-289 and Tregitope-1 34 down-regulate proliferation in
        response to co-administered immunodominant antigens in vitro.
                  CEF is a commercially available pool of immunodominant peptide epitopes
 20     from common pathogens. PBMCs were cultured for 8 days with CEF alone, CEF +
        Tregitope-1 34, or CEF + Tregitope-289. Cells were harvested and washed with
        PBS. 2 x 106 cells were pre-labeled with CFSE dye (Invitrogen) by standard
        protocol and re-stimulated for 65 hours with CEF pool, or no peptide (negative
        control), or PHA mitogen control; supernatants were collected and hlFN-y ELISAs
 25     were performed as described above. Response to positive control PHA was robust
        following both culture conditions. The co-incubation of Tregitope during re
BoST_299675.1                                       52

     WO 2008/094538                                                             PCT/US2008/001148
          stimulation led to a significant decrease in IFN-y production (left panel), which
          correlated with the reduction in the proliferation of effector T cells (FIG. 9, right
          panel).
                  4G: Tregitope-289 downregulates proliferation in response to co
   5      administered antigen in vitro.
                  PBMCs from a subject previously immunized with vaccinia were cultured for
         8 days with either an immunogenic vaccinia peptide alone or an immunogenic
         vaccinia peptide with Tregitope-289 as described above. Cells were harvested and
         washed with PBS. 2 x 106 cells were pre-labeled with CFSE dye (Invitrogen) by
  10     standard protocol and re-stimulated with the vaccinia peptide, vaccinia peptide and
         Tregitope-289, or no peptide (negative control) for 65 hours. The co-incubation of
         Tregitope during incubation led to a significant decrease in proliferation of the
         effector T cells further demonstrating the ability of regulatory T cells activated by
         Tregitope to reduce the proliferation of effector T cells (FIG. 10).
  15              4H: Tregitope suppression is mediated by cells with a regulatory phenotype
         (CD4+ CD25Hi T cells) and upregulation of IL-10.
                  Two samples of PBMC from a single dust-mite-allergic individual were
         prepared. One sample was stained with anti-CD4 and anti-CD25 antibodies and
         analyzed by flow cytometry. In this sample the CD4+CD25Hi subset of cells were
 20      depleted from the remaining PBMC by the methods described above. The other
        sample was left intact, The two samples were then co-stimulated HDM lysate with
        or without Tregitope-289. CD4+CD25Hi-depleted PBMC were less able to
        suppress IFN-y than were non-depleted PBMC, indicating that suppressive effects
        of Tregitopes are mediated by CD4+CD25Hi cells. In an ancillary analysis in
 25     (intact) PBMCs, CD4+ proliferative responses to HDM lysate were suppressed
        following co-incubation with HDM lysate and Tregitope-289 as compared with
        incubation with HDM lysate alone.
                 FIG. 11 documents the requirement for CD4+/CD25hi T cells in the initial co
        incubation. In the presence of CD4+CD25hi cells, co-stimulation with
 30     Tregitope-289 and HDM caused suppression of gamma interferon release following
        restimulation with HDM alone; in the absence of CD4+CD25hi cells (sorted prior to
        the incubation, co-stimulation with Tregitope-289 and HDM was associated with a
        lower amount of suppression (16%: 16.5 to 12.4 pg/ml) as compared with a higher
        amount of suppression (65%: 33.5 to 11.8 pg/ml) following restimulation with HDM
BOST_299675.1                                       53

    WO 2008/094538                                                          PCT/US2008/001148
         alone. FIG. 11 show that the cellular subset containing Tregs is necessary for the
         induction of tolerance to an antigen.
                  41: Tregitope co-incubation causes expansion of cells with a regulatory
         phenotype (CD4+ CD25Hi T cells) and upregulation of regulatory cytokine IL-10 in
   5     response to an allergen.
                  Induction of adaptive tolerance: to determine if Tregitope nTreg activation
         could lead to generation of allergen-specific aTReg, PBMC (from dust mite allergic
         individuals) first incubated for 8 days with Dust Mite (DM) antigen alone, dust mite
        antigen + Tregitope-289, or dust mite antigen + Tregitope-167 were analyzed. As
  10    shown in the top panel (FIG. 12), co-incubation of PBMC with DM antigen and
        Tregitope-289 led to a nearly four-fold expansion of CD4+CD25Hi cells; the same
        was true of PBMC co-incubated with DM antigen and Tregitope-167 (1.6 to 7.5%).
         In both Tregitope co-incubations, IL-10 secretion was also found to be increased
        five-fold (FIG. 12, bottom panel); a finding consistent with the possibility that the
  15    increased CD4+CD25Hi cells may be HDM-specific adaptive Treg. One of skill in
        the art can confirm that the expanded CD4+CD25hi population is secreting IL-10 in
        this in vitro assay. The IL-1 0 secretion in response to the co-incubated antigen, in
        the presence of an expanded population of CD4+CD25hi Tregulatory cells,
        indicates that adaptive Tregs were induced during the coincubation with antigen.
 20              These data show, in the same patient and the same experiment, the
        expansion of CD4 CD25hi T cells following co-incubation with Tregitope-289 and
        DM antigen and following co-incubation with Tregitope-167 and DM antigen; and
        the amount of IL-10 secreted by the co-incubated cells following restimulation with
        HDM alone.
 25              4J: Tregitope co-incubation causes suppression of antigen-specific allergic
        Th2 responses.
                 Tregitope co-incubation also led to a significant decrease in expression of
        CCR4, CD30, CRTH2, and CCR6, which have been shown to be associated with
        Th2 responses. Modulation of cytokine responses by allergen-specific CD4+ T
 30     cells following extended Tregitope co-stimulation was subsequently evaluated.
       After 30 days in culture, Tregitope co-stimulation contributed to the development of
        a mixed population of Bet v 1 1141. 115specific CD4+ T cells. Following prolonged
       stimulation with antigen and Tregitope, 42% of these epitope-specific cells were
        neither ILS nor IFN-y positive, and 44% demonstrated a shift to a Th-1-like
 35    increased interferon response in this prolonged incubation (FIG. 13).
BOST_299675.1                                       54

     WO 2008/094538                                                          PCT/US2008/001148
                 Of note, the study subjects were selected for presence of HLA DR*1 1501 to
          improve the chances of tetramer binding; the effect of Tregitope-167 was more
         pronounced (five fold increase in Treg induction) than for Tregitope 289 (three fold
         increase). Tregitope-289 was not shown to bind to DR 1501 in HLB binding
   5     assays. In contrast Tregitope-167 binds avidly to HLA 1501 (87% inhibition of
         binding at 50 pM).
         Example 5. Characterization of a Tregitope composition by suppression of co
         administered antigens in vivo.
                 5A: Tregitope co-administration causes suppression of effector responses
  10     to co-administered protein therapeutic in vivo.
                 It is shown herein that Tregitopes suppress response to a therapeutic
         protein of bacterial origin, which is referred to as "ANTIGEN-XX" (FIG. 14).
        ANTIGEN-XX has caused significant immunogenicity in humans in unpublished
         studies. Whether the Tregitopes of the invention could suppress the effector
  15     immune response protein in vivo was investigated. HLA DR4 Transgenic mice (4-6
        wk female) were injected weekly 3x subcutaneously (scruff of the neck) with either
         1) 50 pg ANTIGEN-XX alone, 2) 50 pg ANTIGEN-XX+25 pg murine Tregitope-167
        and 25 pg murine Tregitope 106 or 3) PBS sham control. Splenocytes were
        harvested and plated in murine IL-4 elispot plates as described above.
 20              Quantification of IgG antibody to ANTIGEN-XX was determined by antibody
        capture ELISA as described above. ANTIGEN-XX (10 pg/mL) was dissolved in
        carbonate buffer (10 mM Na 2CO 3 and 35 mM NaHCO 3 [pH 9]) and placed into a 96
        well microtiter plate overnight at 40C. The plates were then washed with
        phosphate-buffered saline containing 0.05% Tween 20 (PBST) and blocked for 3
 25     hours at room temperature with 5% fetal bovine serum (FBS; Gibco) in PBS. Serial
        dilutions of sera in 0.5% FBS/PBS were added to the plates and incubated at room
        temperature for 2 hours. The microtiter plates were then washed with PBST and
        100 pL goat anti-mouse IgG (gamma-chain specific) conjugated to horseradish
        peroxidase (Southern Biotechnology Associates) diluted 1:10000 in 0.5% FBS/PBS
 30     is added to each well. Microtiter plates are washed in PBST and then developed
       with 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB; Moss). Absorbances were read at a
       wavelength of 450 nm measured on a Wallac Victor3. Correction for optical
        imperfections in the plate is made by subtraction of intensities at 540 nm from the
       450 nm values. Response to positive control PHA was robust following both
 35    immunization conditions and both assay readouts.
BOST_299675.1                                        55

     WO 2008/094538                                                        PCT/US2008/001148
                 This study confirms the suppressive effects of the murine homologues of
         human Tregitopes co-administered with antigen in vivo.
                 5B: Tregitope co-administration causes suppression of effector responses
         to co-administered allergen in vivo.
   5             Dust mites cause significant allergic responses in humans, and the mouse
         model using house dust mite lysate (HDML) is accepted as a model that is similar
         to humans. Whether the Tregitopes of the invention could suppress the effector
         immune response to HDML in vivo was investigated. HLA DR4 Transgenic mice
         (4-6 wk female) were injected weekly 3x subcutaneously (scruff of the neck) with
  10     either 1) 50 pg HDML alone, 2) 50 pg HDML + 50 pg murine homologue of
        Tregitope-289 or 3) PBS sham control. In a fourth arm, mice were first
        presensitized to HDML through 3 weekly injections of 50 pg and then treated with
        coinjections of HDML (50 pg) and Tregitope-289). One week following the final
        injections, mice were sacrificed.
  15             Splenocytes were harvested and plated in murine IL-4 ELISpot plates as
        described above; to the plated cells were added (in triplicate): PBS (no stimulus
        control), HDM Lysate, purified HDM antigen DerP2, and PHA. HDM DerP2 is a
        component of HDM Lysate.
                 Serum was obtained by cardiac puncture. Quantification of IgG antibody to
 20     HDM antigen was determined by antibody-capture ELISA as described above.
        HDM antigen DerP2 (10 pg/mL) was placed into a 96-well microtiter plate overnight
        at 40 C. The plates were then washed with phosphate-buffered saline containing
        0.05% Tween 20 (PBST) and blocked for three hours at room temperature with 5%
        fetal bovine serum (FBS; Gibco) in PBS. Serial dilutions of sera in 0.5% FBS/PBS
 25     were added to the plates and incubated at room temperature for two hours. The
        microtiter plates were then washed with PBST and 100 iL goat anti-mouse IgG
        (gamma-chain specific) conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (Southern
        Biotechnology Associates) diluted 1:10000 in 0.5% FBS/PBS is added to each well.
        Microtiter plates are washed in PBST and then developed with 3,3',5,5'
 30    tetramethylbenzidine (TMB; Moss). Absorbances were read at a wavelength of
       450 nm measured on a Wallac Victor3. Correction for optical imperfections in the
       plate is made by subtraction of intensities at 540 nm from the 450 nm values.
       Response to positive control PHA was robust following both immunization
       conditions and both assay readouts (FIG. 15).
BOST_299675.1                                     56

     WO 2008/094538                                                          PCT/US2008/001148
                 This study confirms the suppressive effects of the murine equivalents of
          human Tregitopes co-administered with DM antigen in vivo.
                 5C: Tregitope co-administration causes suppression of effector responses
         to co-administered therapeutic in vivo.
   5             To test whether Tregitope co-administration in vivo would be able to
         suppress immune responses to an immunogenic therapeutic protein, HLA
         DRB1*0401 was injected into mice three times weekly with preparations of 50 pg
         immunogenic protein therapeutic ("IPT") alone or in combination with either 50 pag
         Tregitope-289 (murine homologue) or IPT in combination with the murine Fc. Co
  10     administration of IPT with murine Fc region reduced the IL-4 response, however, in
         vivo co-administration of "IPT" with murine homologue Tregitope-289, led to an
         even greater decrease in IL-4 by ELISpot (FIG. 16).
         Example 6. Generation of a FVIII-Tregitope Construct
                 Fusion of Tregitope with an immunogenic protein can lead to the induction
  15     of peripheral tolerance of the immunogenic protein. Clotting Factor Vill is
         immunogenic in people with severe hemophilia A. Chimeric constructs comprised
        of the coding sequence of Factor Vill and Tregitope are produced (Sambrook et al.,
        Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 2 ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
         Press, (1989)). Briefly, the Factor VillI coding region fused at the carboxyterminal to
  20    a Tregitope is generated by annealing overlapping oligos and sub-cloned into an
        expression plasmid. The plasmids are transfected into DG44 CHO cells and stable
        transfectants selected. The chimeric protein is purified over a immunoaffinity
        column and evaluated for tolergenicity. Table 6 illustrates one embodiment of such
        a chimeric protein.
BOST_299675.1                                       57

     WO 2008/094538                                                      PCT/US2008/001148
         Table 6: Factor Vill-Tregitope (Tregitope bold)
         MQIELSTCFFLCLLRFCFSATRRYYLGAVELSWDYMQSDLGELPVDARFPPRVPKSFPFNTSVVYKKTLF
         VEFTDHLFNIAKPRPPWMGLLGPTIQAEVYDTVVITLKNASHPVSLHAVGVSYWKASEGAEYDDQTSQR
         EKEDDKVFPGGSHTYVWQVLKENGPMASDPLCLTYSYLSHVDLVKDLNSGLIGALLVCREGSLAKEKTQT
         LHKFILLFAVFDEGKSWHSETKNSLMQDRDAASARAWPKMHTVNGYVNRSLPGLIGCHRKSVYWHVIGMG
        TTPEVHS IFLEGHTFLVRNHRQASLE ISPITFLTAQTLLMDLGQFLLFCHISSHQHDGMEAYVKVDSCPE
        EPQLRMKNNEEAEDYDDDLTDSEMDVVRFDDDNSPSFIIRSVAKKHPKTWVHYIAAEEEDWDYAPLVLA
         PDDRSYKSQYLNNGPQRIGRKYKKVRFMAYTDETFKTREAIQHESGILGPLLYGEVGDTLLIIFKNQASR
        PYNIYPHGITDVRPLYSRRLPKGVKHLKDFPILPGEIFKYKWTVTVEDGPTKSDPRCLTRYYSSFVNMER
        DLASGLIGPLLICYKESVDQRGNQIMSDKRNVILFSVFDENRSWYLTENIQRFLPNPAGVQLEDPEFQAS
        NIMHS INGYVFDSLQLSVCLHEVAYWYILS IGAQTDFLSVFFSGYTFKHKMVYEDTLTLFPFSGETVFMS
        MENPGLWILGCHNSDFRNRGMTALLKVSSCDKNTGDYYEDSYEDISAYLLSKNNAIEPRSFSQNSRHPST
        RQKQFNATTIPENDIEKTDPWFAHRTPMPKIQNVSSSDLLMLLRQSPTPHGLSLSDLQEAKYETFSDDPS
        PGAIDSNNSLSEMTHFRPQLHHSGDMVFTPESGLQLRLNEKLGTTAATELKKLDFKVSSTSNNLISTIPS
        DNLAAGTDNTSSLGPPSMPVHYDSQLDTTLFGKKSSPLTESGGPLSLSEENNDSKLLESGLMNSQESSWG
        KNVSSTESGRLFKGKRAHGPALLTKDNALFKVS ISLLKTNKTSNNSATNRKTHIDGPSLLIENSPSVWQN
        ILESDTEFKKVTPLIHDRMLMDKNATALRLNHMSNKTTSSKNMEMVQQKKEGPIPPDAQNPDMSFFKMLF
        LPESARWIQRTHGKNSLNSGQGPSPKQLVSLGPEKSVEGQNFLSEKNKVVVGKGEFTKDVGLKEMVFPSS
        RNLFLTNLDNLHENNTHNQEKKIQEEIEKKETLIQENVVLPQIHTVTGTKNFMKNLFLLSTRQNVEGSYD
        GAYAPVLQDFRSLNDSTNRTKKHTAHFSKKGEEENLEGLGNQTKQIVEKYACTTRIS PNTSQQNFVTQRS
        KRALKQFRLPLEETELEKRIIVDDTSTQWSKNMKHLTPSTLTQIDYNEKEKGAITQS PLSDCLTRSHSIP
        QANRS PLPIAKVSSFPS IRPIYLTRVLFQDNSSHLPAASYRKKDSGVQESSHFLQGAKKNNLSLAILTLE
        MTGDQREVGSLGTSATNSVTYKKVENTVLPKPDLPKTSGKVELLPKVHIYQKDLFPTETSNGSPGHLDLV
        EGSLLQGTEGAIKWNEANRPGKVPFLRVATESSAKTPSKLLDPLAWDNHYGTQIPKEEWKSQEKSPEKTA
        FKKKDTILSLNACESNHAIAAINEGQNKPEIEVTWAKQGRTERLCSQNPPVLKRHQREITRTTLQSDQEE
        IDYDDTISVEMKKEDFDIYDEDENQSPRSFQKKTRHYFIAAVERLWDYGMSSSPHVLRNRAQSGSVPQFK
        KVVFQEFTDGSFTQPLYRGELNEHLGLLGPYIRAEVEDNIMVTFRNQASRPYSFYSSLISYEEDQRQGAE
        PRKNFVKPNETKTYFWKVQHHMAPTKDEFDCKAWAYFSDVDLEKDVHSGLIGPLLVCHTNTLNPAHGRQV
        TVQEFALFFTIFDETKSWYFTENMERNCRAPSNIQMEDPTFKENYRFHAINGYIMDTLPGLVMAQDQRIR
        WYLLSMGSNENIHS IHFSGHVFTVRKKEEYKMALYNLYPGVFETVEMLPSKAGIWRVECLIGEHLHAGMS
        TLFLVYSNKCQTPLGMASGHIRDFQITASGQYGQWAPKLARLHYSGS INAWSTKEPFSWIKVDLLAPMII
        HGIKTQGARQKFSSLYISQFIIMYSLDGKKWQTYRGNSTGTLMVFFGNVDSSGIKHNIFNPPIIARYIRL
       HPTHYSIRSTLRMELMGCDLNSCSMPLGMESKAISDAQITASSYFTNMFATWSPSKARLHLQGRSNAWRP
       QVNNPKEWLQVDFQKTMKVTGVTTQGVKSLLTSMYVKEFLISSSQDGHQWTLFFQNGKVKVFQGNQDSFT
        PVVNSLDPPLLTRYLRIHPQSWVHQIALRMEVLGCEAQDLYEEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDW         SEQ ID NO: 1
       Example 7. Generation of a FVIII-Multi-Tregitope Construct
                Multiple Tregitopes can be present in highly immunogenic proteins to
       promote adaptive tolerance. Chimeric constructs comprised of the coding
BOST_299675.1                                   58

   WO 2008/094538                                                        PCT/US2008/001148
        sequence of clotting Factor Vill and multiple Tregitope(s) are produced (Sambrook
        et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 2 ed., Cold Spring Harbor
        Laboratory Press, (1989)). Briefly, the Factor Vill coding region fused at the
        carboxyterminal to a Tregitope is generated by annealing overlapping oligos and
   5    sub-cloned into an expression plasmid. The plasmids are transfected into DG44
        CHO cells and stable transfectants selected. The chimeric protein is purified over a
        immunoaffinity column and evaluated for tolergenicity. Table 7 illustrates one
        embodiment of such a chimeric protein.
BOST 299675.1                                    59

   WO 2008/094538                                                       PCTIUS2008/001 148
                     Table 7: Factor VIII-multiTregitope (Tregitope (a) bold)
         MOIELSTCFFLCLLRFCFSATRRYYLGAVELSWDYMQSDLGELPVDARFPPRVPCSFPFNTSVVYKKTLF
         VEFTDHLFNIAKPRPPWMGLLGPTIQAEVYDTVVITLNMASHPVSLHAVGVSYWKASEGAEYDDQTSQR
         EKEDDKVFPGGSHTYVWQVLKENGPMASDPLCLTYSYLSHVDLVKDLNSGLIGAL.LVCREGSLAKEKTQT
         LHKFILLFAVFDEGKSWHSETKNSLMQDRDAASARAWPKcMHTVNGYVNRSLPGLIGCHRKSVYWHVIGMG
         TTPEVHSIFLEGHTFLVRNHRQASLEISPITFLTAQTLLMDLGQFLLFCHISSHQHDGMAYVKVDSCPE
         EPQLRMKNNEEAEDYDDDLTDSEMDVVRFDDDNS    PS FIQIRSVAKU-PKTWVHYIAAEEEDWDYAPLVLA
         PDDRSYKSQYLNNGPQRIGRKYKKVRFMAYTDETFKTREAIQMESGILGPLLYGEVGDTLLI      IFKNQASR
         PYNIYPHGITDVRPLYSRRLPKGVIG*LKDFPILPGEI FKYKWTVTVEDGPTKSDPRCLTRYYSSFVNMER
         DLASGLIGPLLICYKESVDQRGNQIMSDKRNVILFSVDENRSWYLTENIQRFLPNPAGVQLEDPEFQAS
        NIMHSINGYVFDSLQLSVCLHEVAYWYILSIGAQTDFLSVFFSGYTFKHKMVVYEDTLTLFPFSGETVFMS
        MENPGLWILGCRNSDFRNRGMTALLKVSSCDKNTGDYYEDSYEDISAYIJLSKNNAIEPRSFSQNSRHPST
        RQKQFNATTIPENDIEKTDPWFAHRTPMPKIQNVSSSDLLMIJLRQSPTPHGLSLSDLQEAKYETFSDDPS
        PGAIDSNNSLSEMTHFRPQLHHSGDMVFTPESGLQLRLNEKLGTTAATELKKLDFKVSSTSNNLISTI PS
        DNLAAGTDNTSSLGPPSMPVHYDSQLDTTLFGKKSS PLTESCGPLSLSEENNDSKLLESGLMNSQESSWG
        KNVSSTESGRLFKGKRAHGPALLTKDNALFKVS ISLLICTNKTSNNSATNRKTHIDGPSLLIE'SPSVWQN
        ILESDTEFKKVTPLIHDRMLMDKNATALRLNHMSNKTTSSKNNEMVQQKKEGPIPPDAQWPDMSFFKMLF
        LPESARWIQRTHGKNSLNSGQGPS PKQLVSLGPEKSVEGQNFLSEKNKVVVGKGEFTKDVGLKEMVFPSS
        RNLFLTNLDNLIENNTHNQEKKIQEEIEKKETLIQENVVLPOIHTVTGTKNFMKNLFLLSTRQNVEGSYD
        GAYAPVLQDFRSLNDSTNRTKKHTA-FSKICGEEENLEGLGNQTIQIVEKYACTTRISPNTSQQNFVTQRS
        KRALKQFRLPLEETELEKRI IVDDTSTQWSKNNKHLTPSTLTQIDYNEKEKGAITQSPLSDCLTRSHS IP
        QANRSPLP IAKVSS FPS IRPIYLTRVLFQDNSSHLPAASYRKKDSGVQESSHFLQGAKKNNLSLAI LTLE
        ITGDQREVGSLGTSATNSVTYKKVENTVLPKPDLPKTSGKVELLPKVHIYQKDLFPTETSNGSPGHLDLV
        EGSLLQGTEGAIKWNEANRPGKVPFLRVATESSAKTPSKLLDPLAWDNHYGTQI PKEEWKSQEKS PEKTA
        FKKKDTILSLNACESNHAIAAINEGQNKPEIEVTWAKOGRTERLCSQNPPVLKRHQREITRTTLQSDQEE
        IDYDDTISVEMKKEDFDIYDEDENQS PRSFQKKTRHYFIAAVERLWDYGMSSSPHVLRNRAQSGSVPQFK
        KVVFQEFTDGSPTQPLYRGELNEHIJGLLGPYIRAEVEDNIMVTFRNQASRPYSFYSSLISYEEDQRQGAE
        PRKNFVKPNETKTYFWKVQHHMAPTKDEFDCKAWAYFSDVDLEKDVHSGLIGPLLVCHTNTLNPAHGRQV
        TVQEFALFFTIFDETKSWYFTENMERNCRAPSNIQMEDPTPKENYRFHAINGYIMDTLPGLVMAQDQRIR
        WYLLSMGSNENIHS IHFSGHVFTVRKKEEYKMALYNLYPGVFETVEMLPSKAGIWRVECLIGEHLHAGMS
        TLFLVYSNKCQTPLGMASGMIRDFQITASGQYGQWAPKcLARLMYSGS INAWSTKEPFSWIKVDLLAPMI I
        HGIKTQGARQKFSSLYISQFI IMYSLDGICKWQTYRGNSTGTLMVFFGNVDSSGIKHNIFNPPI IARYIRL
        HPTHYSIRSTLRI4ELMGCDLNSCSMPLGMESKAISDAQITASSY'T*FATNS PSKARLHLQGRSNAWRP
        OVNNPKEWLOVDFQKTMKVTGVTTQGVKSLLTSMYVKEFLISSSQDGHQWTLFFQN~GKVKVFQGN'QDSFT
        PVVNSLDPPLLTRYLRIHPQSWVHQIALRMEVLGCEAQDLYEEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWEEQYNSTY
        RVVSVLTVLHQDWEEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWEEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDW       SEQ ID NO: 2
B0STj_99675.1                                    60

     WO 2008/094538                                                        PCT/US2008/001148
         Example 8. Generation of an Enhanced Vaccine Delivery Vehicle
                  Fc binding to Fc receptors enhance uptake in antigen presenting cells
         presentation to T and B lymphocytes. Tregitope-289, located in the Fc domain of
         IgG molecules acts to deliver suppressive signals. The modification of Fc so that
   5     Tregitope-289 no longer binds to MHC molecules and regulatory T cells allows for
         efficient targeting of vaccine candidates while avoiding suppressive effects.
         Modifications to decrease binding of Tregitopes to MHC molecules are useful.
        Table 8 illustrates such a modification. Chimeric constructs comprised of various
         proteins or epitope pseudo-proteins of interest and a Tregitope modified mIgG Fc
  10    are designed (Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 2 ed.,
        Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, (1989)). Briefly, the protein or epitope
        pseudo-protein of interest is generated by annealing overlapping oligos and sub
        cloned into a Tregitope modified Fc fusion expression plasmid. The plasmids are
        transfected into DG44 CHO cells and stable transfectants selected. The chimeric
  15    protein homodimers are purified over a protein A column and evaluated for
        immunogenicity. Table 8 illustrates one embodiment of a chimeric protein where
        the pseudo-protein of interest is a string of immunogenic T cell epitopes derived
        from the Epstein Barr Virus (EBV) fused to a modified Fc protein in which the
        Tregitope has been modified to no longer bind MHC class Il molecules and can not
 20     stimulate natural regulatory T cells. EBV-Tregitope modified Fc SEQUENCE (Kb
        SIGNAL SEQUENCE) in Table 8 is designated as underlined text. The Tregitope is
        designated as bold text. The Tregitope modified amino acids are designated as
        shaded test. The human Fc region is designated as italicized text.
                           Table 8: EBV-Tregitope modified Fc SEQUENCE
      mvpctlllllaaalaptqtraenkggdqgpplmtdggggpgpgplssslglallllllallfwlyivmsd
      wtggallvlysfalmliiiiliififrrdllcplgalcilllmitlllialwnlhgqalflgivlfifgc
      llvlgiwiyllemlwrlgatiwqllafflaffldlilliialylqqnwwtllvdllwlllflailiwmyy
      hgqrhsdehhhddslphgpgpggprhrdgvrrpqkrpscigckgpgpgiaeglrallarshvertgpgpg
      agvfvyggsktslynlrrgtalaigpgpgtslynlrrgtalaipqcrltplsrlgpgpgresivcyfmvf
      lqthifaevlgpgpgaikdlvmtkpaptcnirvgpgpggpqrrggdnhgrgrdkthtcppcpapellggp
      svflfppkpkdtlmi srtpevtcvvvdvshedpevkfnwyvdgvevhnaktkpreeqgnatr vavl tv
      lbqdwlngkeykckvsnkalpapiektiskakgqprepqvytlppsrdeltknqvsltclvkgfypsdia
      vewesnggpennykttppvldsdgsfflyskItvdksrwqqgnvfscsvmhealhnhytqkslslspg
      SEQ ID NO:3
 25                                            REFERENCES
       Ahlers, J. et al., J. Clin. Invest., 108:1677-1685, 2001.
        Bischof, F. et aL, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 98:12168-73, 2001. Epub. 2001 Oct 2.
       Cobbold, S. et al., Immunol Rev., 213:239-55, 2006.
        D'Ambrosio, D. et al., J. Immunol., 161:5111-5, 1998.
BOST_299675.1                                       61

      WO 2008/094538                                                        PCT/US2008/001148
         De Groot, A. and Berzofsky, J., Methods, 34:425-428, 2004.
         De Groot, A. et al., Immunol. Cell Biol., 80:255-269, 2002.
         Durinovic-Bello, I. et a/., Proc. Nat/. Acad. Sc. USA, 103:11683-11688, 2006.
         El-Amine, M. et al., J. Immunol., 165:5631-5636, 2000.
    5    El-Amine, M. et al., Int. Immunol., 14:761-766, 2002.
         Feng, I. et a/., J Biomed Sc., 14:43-57, 2006.
         Hjelm, F. et al, Scand. J. Immunol., 64:177-184, 2006.
         Hochweller, K. et al., Curr. Mol. Med., 6:631-43, 2006.
         Huang, X. et a/., J. Immunol., 175:4283-4291, 2005.
   10    Jordan, S. et al., Am. J. Transplant., 6:459-66, 2006.
         Karlsson M. et a., Proc. Nat/. Acad. Sci. USA, 96:2244-2249, 1999.
         Klee, L. and Zand, R., Neuroinformatics, 2:59-70, 2004.
         Monneaux, F. et a., J. Immunol., 175:5839-5847, 2005.
         Mudd, P. et al., Scand. J. Immunol., 64:211-8, 2006.
  15     Nagata, K. et al., J. Immunol., 162:1278-86, 1999.
         Nguyen, V. et al., Biol. Blood Marrow Transplant, 12:995-1009, 2006.
         Phillips, W. et al., Int. Rev. Immunol., 24:501-17, 2005.
         Reijonen, H. and Kwok W., Methods, 29:282-288, 2003.
         Reitan, S. and Hannestad, K., Proc. Nat/. Acad. Sci. USA, 99:7588-7593, 2002.
  20     Shevach, E. et a., Immuno/. Rev., 212:60-73, 2006.
        Shioji, K. et al., Circ. Res., 89:540-546, 2001.
        Southwood, S. et a., J. /mmuno/., 160:3363-3373, 1998.
        St. Clair, E. et a., Annu. Rev. Med., 58:329-346, 2006.
        Stock, P. et al., Curr. Opin. Allergy Clin. Immunol., 6:12-16, 2006.
  25    Sumida, T. et a., Arthritis Rheum., 40:2271-2273, 1997.
        Tang, Q. and Bluestone, J. Immunol. Rev., 212:217-37, 2006.
        Wing, K. and Sakaguchi, S., Curr. Opin. Allergy Clin. Immunol., 6:482-488, 2006.
        Wohlleben, G. and Erb, K., Curr. Pharm. Des., 12:3281-92, 2006.
        Zambidis, E. and Scott, D., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sc. USA, 93:5019-5024, 1996.
  30
                                               EQUIVALENTS
                 While the invention has been described in connection with the specific
        embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modification.
        Furthermore, this application is intended to cover any variations, uses, or
 35     adaptations of the invention, including such departures from the present disclosure
        as come within known or customary practice in the art to which the invention
        pertains, and as fall within the scope of the appended claims.
BOST_299675.1                                       62

    WO 2008/094538                                                         PCT/US2008/001148
                                                 Claims
       What is claimed is:
        1.    A T-cell epitope polypeptide composition comprising at least one
               polypeptide selected from the group consisting of: SEQ ID NOS:4-58.
  5     2.    A nucleic acid encoding at least one T-cell epitope polypeptide selected
              from the group consisting of: SEQ ID NOS:4-58.
        3.    A vector comprising the nucleic acid according to Claim 2.
        4.    A cell comprising the vector according to Claim 3.
        5.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising the T-cell epitope polypeptide
 10           composition of Claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
        6.    A method of treating or preventing a medical condition in a subject in need
              thereof comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a T
              cell epitope polypeptide selected from the group consisting of: SEQ ID
               NOS:4-58.
 15     7.    The method according to Claim 6, wherein the medical condition is selected
              from the group consisting of: an allergy, an autoimmune disease, a
              transplant related disorder, graft versus host disease, an enzyme or protein
              deficiency disorder, a hemostatic disorder, cancer, infertility; and a viral,
               bacterial or parasitic infection.
 20     8.    A kit for preventing or treating a medical condition in a subject, wherein the
               kit comprises at least one T-cell epitope polypeptide selected from the group
               consisting of: SEQ ID NOS:4-58.
        9.    A method for expanding a population of regulatory T cells, comprising:
              (a)      providing a biological sample from a subject; and
 25           (b)      isolating regulatory T-cells from the biological sample; and
                       contacting the isolated regulatory T-cells with an effective amount of
                       a Tregitope composition of the invention under conditions wherein
                       the T-regulatory cells increase in number to yield an expanded
                       regulatory T-cell composition,
 30           thereby expanding the regulatory T-cells in the biological sample.
BOST_299675.1                                      63

  WO 2008/094538                                                         PCT/US2008/001148
       10.    A method for stimulating regulatory T cells in a biological sample,
              comprising:
              (a)     providing a biological sample from a subject;
              (b)     isolating regulatory T-cells from the biological sample; and
  5                   contacting the isolated regulatory T-cells with an effective amount of
                      a Tregitope composition of the invention under conditions wherein
                      the T-regulatory cells are stimulated to alter one or more biological
                      function,
              thereby stimulating the regulatory T-cells in the biological sample.
 10    11.    A method for repressing immune response in a subject, comprising
              administering a composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of
              a peptide comprising a Tregitope to the subject, wherein the peptide
              represses the immune response.
        12.   The method of Claim 11, wherein the peptide suppresses effector T cell
 15           response.
        13.   The method of Claim 11, wherein the peptide suppresses helper T cell
              response.
        14.   The method of Claim 11, wherein the peptide suppresses B cell response.
        15.   A method of suppressing antigen-specific immune response in a subject
 20           through the administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a
              composition comprising one or more Tregitopes, wherein the one or more
              Tregitopes are either covalently bound, non-covalently bound or in
              admixture with a specific target antigen resulting in the diminution of
              immune response against the target antigen.
 25     16.   The method of Claim 15, wherein the suppressive effect is mediated by
              natural Treg.
        17.   The method of Claim 15, wherein the suppressive effect is mediated by
              adaptive Treg.
        18.   The method of Claim 15, wherein the peptide suppresses effector T cell
 30           response.
        19.   The method of Claim 15, wherein the peptide suppresses helper T cell
              response.
BOST_299675.1                                     64

  WO 2008/094538                                                      PCT/US2008/001148
       20.    The method of Claim 15, wherein the peptide suppresses B cell response.
       21.    The method of Claim 15, wherein the peptide comprises a sequence
              selected from the group consisting of: SEQ ID NOS:4-58.
       22.    A method for enhancing the immunogenicity of a vaccine delivery vector,
  5           comprising identification and removal of regulatory T cell epitopes.
       23.    The method of Claim 22, wherein the T cell epitopes are selected from the
              group consisting of: SEQ ID NOS:4-58.
BOST_299675.1                                  65

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
