The use of iron salt aerosol iron to activate abiotic oxidation to consume
and degrade marine plastic, and to make them bioavailable and help
eliminate plastics from the marine environment.

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are two pages of description only

The growing level of marine plastics is a well documented problem facing the
health of all marine life and humanity. There is now an urgent need to reduce and
ideally eliminate plastic waste from entering the oceans and other water bodies.
Whilst this is happening, this invention can neutralise and make bioavailable most
existing marine microplastics. It does this by activating abiotic oxidation and plastic
consuming and degrading microbes on the surfaces of microplastics.

          Iron Salt Aerosol - Proposed Australian Field Trial
               Franz D. Oeste, Renaud K. de Richter, Robert Tulip, John Macdonald
Overview
 Iron Salt Aerosol (ISA) has been proposed in a recent peer-reviewed scientific journal article1
as the most promising single method to slow and even reverse global warming. ISA has big
advantages over other proposed climate change mitigation methods. Scientific studies
 indicate that ISA could safely begin to reverse global warming within a decade, while
delivering essential local ecosystem protection, by global addition of 200,000 tonnes of iron
to the atmosphere each year. This potentially game-changing result now requires validation
through a field trial, which Australia is ideally placed to implement. We seek support for a
world-first ISA field trial in Australian waters, working in close cooperation with the marine
 biology community and potentially with insurance, tourism, fishing and shipping industries to
 produce iron(Ill)chloride aerosol from ship exhausts under international and local scientific
and government supervision.
 ISA could be an effective way to address risks relating to climate change and protection of
sensitive locations such as the Great Barrier Reef. However, in view of the priceless value of
the reef, initial trials should occur in other locations, to provide evidence so scientists and the
 broader community can make decisions on possible further activity.
All statements in this proposal are supported by the rigorous scientific modelling in the
journal article. Its analysis indicates that ISA field trials will generate safe cooling effects
 including reducing solar radiation, methane, hydrochloro-fluorocarbons and low-level ozone,
 neutralising micro plastics and increasing ocean photosynthesis leading to reduced and
sequestered C02. This paper outlines options to gain the best results in an Australian field
trial.
The ISA method occurs both naturally and from industry. The main natural process, blowing
 iron dust from continents to sea, was a main cause of planetary cooling during ice ages.
 Human industry emits iron by fossil fuel combustion and steel production, with several
cooling climatic effects attested by numerous scientific publications. Increased ocean
 productivity in areas with industrial iron emissions has been measured at up to 50%.
We propose a field trial to assess the cooling effects of ISA in Australia waters. The trial, to
 be based on scientific laboratory and desktop modelling by local and international experts,
aims to prove the cooling effect of ISA and provide a simple, safe, rapid, inexpensive and
effective way to help reverse global climate change and protect the environment from risks of
warming and acidification.
 1 Scientific details including bibliography are at a recent peer reviewed article in the journal Earth
 System Dynamics, titled 'Climate engineering by mimicking natural dust climate control: the iron salt
aerosol method', by Oeste, F D., De Richter, R., Ming, T, & Caillol, S. (2017). The article is available
at http://www.earth-syst-dynam.net/8/1/2017/esd-8-1-2017.odf

   Editorial Note
     <removed-apn>
There are three pages of claims only

In the oceans, a large number of plastic, mostly foliar pieces, are floating both on
and some metres below the surface. The life of floating microplatic plastic needs
to be reduced and this can be done by ISA. ISA is a method of climate
protection, the Iron Salt Aerosol method. ISA has the potential to be a highly
effective, safe and low cost method for climate protection, reduction of global
warming and help save threatened reefs like Great Barrier Reef from the dangers
of warming sea temperatures and acidification.
Franz Oeste, Renaud de Richter and Ernst Ries have scientific lead on iron salt
aerosols. John Macdonald and Robert Tulip are the Australian contacts. Franz
and Renaud recently co-authored an article published in the Earth System
Dynamics uni
 Climate engineering by mimicking natural dust climate control: the iron salt
aerosol method, that provides the technical background summarised in the
attached paper.
In order to maximize the C02 fixation induced by ISA, our suggestion is to
integrate a solution to the plastic waste problem on the ocean surfaces into the
ISA method.
About 5 to 13 million metric tons of solid plastic waste per year are entering the
oceans (Jambeck et al., 2015). Over the last years the plastic waste drifting on
the ocean has developed into a huge problem for oceanic ecosystems (Law et
al., 2014). Plastic keeps sunlight away from phytoplankton, hampering it from
effective growth. The plastic waste drifts with the ocean currents. It then collects
within accumulation zones predicted by a global surface circulation model
(Cozar et al., 2014). Most plastic covered ocean surfaces are concentrated in
central-oceanic regions with a low iron content, predestined for the application of
the ISA method.
Due to the trash, there would be a reduction in the ISA efficiency so it is
proposed to integrate the plastic depletion problem into the ISA method: specific
technologies can be installed both inside and outside of a container ship vessel,
i.e., plastic trash collection, plastic trash sorting, plastic trash extrusion, plastic
trash burning, ISA production and emission. The aforementioned processes are

well known and need no description here. Trash or waste burning has the
advantages of delivering an effective hot carrier gas with high buoyancy for the
uplift of ISA and for delivering HCI as a cocatalyst of ISA. With the plastic
extruder, most carrier parts of floating supports on the reef coral, sponge and
mussel habitats could be produced.
In addition to the larger plastic fragments, the fine floating plastic debris with
particle diameters in the micrometer range is another problem (van Sebille et al.,
2015). Instead of carrying out the micro trash separation by technical means,
mussel and oyster farming may remove this ocean surface environmental
problem. The floating micro-trash particles are collected by the bivalves and
excreted as pseudo faeces pellets and ultimately become part of the sediment
layer at the ocean bottom.
Within the iron cycle, the photolytically driven oxidant production with iron
participation may not be reduced to qCl and qOH in the troposphere and 02 by
assimilation: when iron is cycled through the mantle at temperatures above
2500K, Fe(III) is reduced to Fe(II) by the release of 02 (Bykova et al., 2016). This
phenomenon may be driven by the blackbody radiation containing a great
fraction of photons with a wavelength shorter than 2 pm at and above this
temperature level.
According to our working hypothesis, the influence of additional ISA iron
activates the plastic-consuming and degrading microbes attached to the plastic
surface. Because ISA influences the whole ecosystem of primary producers and
consumers, even such parts below the surface will also become provided with
additional iron.
ISA tests are planned to confirm activation of plastic consuming microbes, the
addition of iron and/or iron and the impact of further micro nutrients on plastic
receptures would be the next step for a better control of the life of plastics in
different environments like soil and water. The intrinsic existence of elements
with a high inclination to photolytic electron capture, like iron on plastic
constituents, will even induce a chemical oxidative attack on the carbon
dominated polymer structure of the plastic. As known from nature, plant roots
and microbes use many different chemical and physical methods to extract micro
nutrients, even from such difficult to dissolve materials like quartz and other

compact silica minerals. In the same way microbes will act to extract the iron
nutrient out of plastic polymeric substance.
The iron-organic complexes generated within the sticky organic film on the plastic
produced by the microbes made of alginate and living microbes becomes
photolyzed by the sun-radiation. Additional to the biotic plastic consumption, this
abiotic photolytic reduction of the organic iron complexes generates radicalic
oxidants which further shortens the plastics lifetime by abiotic oxidation of the
plastic surface. This photolytical activity decreases with growing distance below
the surface.
Another ISA physical effect is claimed to help to get rid of the plastic, even out of
the layer below the surface: with ISA dispersion, as the iron content of the
floating plastic surfaces increase, the thickness of the biotic film layer on the
plastic surface will also increase. Because any microbic and alginate film layer
substance mix has specific weights of more than that of water, as a result such
floating plastic particles or foils will sink and form sediments due to their loss of
buoyancy. In this way, floating plastic will be sequestered to the sea floor and
removed from harm.
The influences on microbial degradation on plastic will be confirmed by Field
Trials.

