COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS TO IMPROVE THE THERAPEUTIC
BENEFIT OF INDIRUBIN AND ANALOGS THEREOF, INCLUDING
MEISOINDIGO
ABSTRACT
The present invention describes methods and compositions for improving the therapeutic
efficacy of therapeutically active agents previously limited by suboptimal therapeutic
performance by either improving efficacy as monotherapy or reducing side effects. Such
methods and compositions are particularly applicable to therapeutically active agents selected
from the group consisting of: (i) indirubin; (ii) an analog of indirubin; (iii) a derivative of
indirubin or of an analog of indirubin; and (iv) a pharmaceutical composition comprising
indirubin, an analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin,
especially meisoindigo.

   COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS TO IMPROVE THE THERAPEUTIC BENEFIT OF
            INDIRUBIN AND ANALOGS THEREOF, INCLUDING MEISOINDIGO
                                    CROSS-REFERENCES
         [0001] This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional
Application Serial No. 61/614,724 by D.M. Brown, filed March 23, 2012 and entitled
"Compositions and Methods to Improve the Therapeutic Benefit of Indirubin and
Analogs Thereof, Including Meisoindigo," the contents of which are incorporated herein
in their entirety by this reference.
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         [0002] The present invention relates to the general field of hyperproliferative
diseases including oncology with a focus on novel methods and compositions for the
improved utility of chemical agents, compounds, and dosage forms previously limited by
suboptimal human therapeutic performance including indirubin and analogs thereof,
such as meisoindigo.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         [0003] The search for and identification of cures for many life-threatening
diseases that plague humans still remains an empirical and sometimes serendipitous
process. While many advances have been made from basic scientific research to
improvements in practical patient management, there still remains tremendous
frustration in the rational and successful discovery of useful therapies particularly for
life-threatening diseases such as cancer, inflammatory conditions, infection, and other
conditions.
                                              1

        [0004] Since the "War on Cancer" began in the early 1970's by the United
States National Cancer Institute (NCI) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), a wide
variety of strategies and programs have been created and implemented to prevent,
diagnose, treat and cure cancer. One of the oldest and arguably most successful
programs has been the synthesis and screening of small chemical entities (<1500 MW)
for biological activity against cancer. This program was organized to improve and
streamline the progression of events from chemical synthesis and biological screening
to preclinical studies for the logical progression into human clinical trials with the hope of
finding cures for the many types of life-threatening malignant tumors. The synthesis
and screening of hundreds of thousands of chemical compounds from academic and
industrial sources, in addition to the screening of natural products and extracts from
prokaryotes, invertebrate animals, plant collections, and other sources from all over the
world has been and continues to be a major approach for the identification of novel lead
structures as potential new and useful medicines. This is in addition to other programs
including biotherapeutics designed to stimulate the human immune system with
vaccines, therapeutic antibodies, cytokines, lymphokines, inhibitors of tumor blood
vessel development (angiogenesis) or gene and antisense therapies to alter the genetic
make-up of cancer cells, and other biological response modifiers.
        [0005] The work supported by the NCI, other governmental agencies both
domestic and foreign in academic or industrial research and development laboratories
has resulted in an extraordinary body of biological, chemical and clinical information. In
addition, large chemical libraries have been created, as well as highly characterized in
vitro and in vivo biological screening systems that have been successfully used.
However, from the tens of billions of dollars spent over the past thirty years supporting
these programs both preclinically and clinically, only a small number of compounds
have been identified or discovered that have resulted in the successful development of
useful therapeutic products. Nevertheless, the biological systems both in vitro and in
vivo and the "decision trees" used to warrant further animal studies leading to clinical
studies have been validated. These programs, biological models, clinical trial protocols,
                                               2

and other information developed by this work remain critical for the discovery and
development of any new therapeutic agent.
        [0006] Unfortunately, many of the compounds that have successfully met the
preclinical testing and federal regulatory requirements for clinical evaluation were either
unsuccessful or disappointing in human clinical trials. Many compounds were found to
have untoward or idiosyncratic side-effects that were discovered during human clinical
Phase I dose-escalation studies used to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
and side-effect profile. In some cases, these toxicities or the magnitude of their toxicity
were not identified or predicted in preclinical toxicology studies. In other cases,
chemical agents where in vitro and in vivo studies suggested a potentially unique
activity against a particular tumor type, molecular target or biological pathway were not
successful in human Phase II clinical trials where specific examination of particular
cancer indications/types were evaluated in government sanctioned (e.g., U.S. FDA),
IRB approved clinical trials. In addition, there are those cases where potential new
agents were evaluated in randomized Phase III clinical trials where a significant clinical
benefit could not be demonstrated; such cases have also been the cause of great
frustration and disappointment. Finally, a number of compounds have reached
commercialization but their ultimate clinical utility has been limited by poor efficacy as
monotherapy (<25% response rates) and untoward dose-limiting side-effects (Grade III
and IV) (e.g., myelosuppression, neurotoxicity, cardiotoxicity, gastrointestinal toxicities,
or other significant side effects).
        [0007] In many cases, after the great time and expense of developing and
moving an investigational compound into human clinical trials and where clinical failure
has occurred, the tendency has been to return to the laboratory to create a better
analog, look for agents with different structures but potentially related mechanisms of
action, or try other modifications of the drug. In some cases, efforts have been made to
try additional Phase I or II clinical trials in an attempt to make some improvement with
the side-effect profile or therapeutic effect in selected patients or cancer indications. In
many of those cases, the results did not realize a significant enough improvement to
                                                  3

warrant further clinical development toward product registration. Even for
commercialized products, their ultimate use is still limited by suboptimal performance.
       [0008] With so few therapeutics approved for cancer patients and the realization
that cancer is a collection of diseases with a multitude of etiologies and that a patient's
response and survival from therapeutic intervention is complex with many factors
playing a role in the success or failure of treatment including disease indication, stage of
invasion and metastatic spread, patient gender, age, health conditions, previous
therapies or other illnesses, genetic markers that can either promote or retard
therapeutic efficacy, and other factors, the opportunity for cures in the near term
remains elusive. Moreover, the incidence of cancer continues to rise with an
approximate 4% increase predicted for 2003 in the United States by the American
Cancer Society such that over 1.3 million new cancer cases are estimated. In addition,
with advances in diagnosis such as mammography for breast cancer and PSA tests for
prostate cancer, more patients are being diagnosed at a younger age. For difficult to
treat cancers, a patient's treatment options are often exhausted quickly resulting in a
desperate need for additional treatment regimens. Even for the most limited of patient
populations, any additional treatment opportunities would be of considerable value.
This invention focuses on inventive compositions and methods for improving the
therapeutic benefit of suboptimally administered chemical compounds including
indirubin and analogs thereof.
       [0009] Relevant literature includes Foye, W.O., "Cancer Chemotherapeutic
Agents," American Chemical Society,1995, and Dorr, R.T., and Von Hoff, D.D., "Cancer
Chemotherapy Handbook," Appleton and Lange, 1994.
       [0010] Therefore, there is a need for compositions and methods that improve
the therapeutic benefit of suboptimally administered chemical compounds and
therapeutic compositions.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                                               4

        [0011] This invention meets the needs described above for compositions and
methods that improve the therapeutic benefit of suboptimally administered chemical
compounds and therapeutic compositions. Specifically, this invention relates to novel
compositions and methods to improve the utility of chemical agents with suboptimal
performance in patients suffering with cancer. The invention describes novel
improvements, pharmaceutical ingredients, dosage forms, excipients, solvents, diluents,
drug delivery systems, preservatives, more accurate drug administrations, improved
dose determination and schedules, toxicity monitoring and ameliorization, techniques or
agents to circumvent or reduce toxicity, techniques and tools to identify/predict those
patients who might have a better outcome with a therapeutic agent by the use of
phenotype or genotype determination through the use of diagnostic kits or
pharmacokinetic or metabolism monitoring approaches. The invention also relates to
the use of drug delivery systems, novel prodrugs, polymer conjugates, novel routes of
administration, other agents to potentiate the activity of the compounds or inhibit the
repair of suboptimal cellular effects or sublethal damage or to "push" the cell into more
destructive cellular phases such as apoptosis. In some case, the use of these
suboptimal therapeutics in conjunction with radiation or other conventional
chemotherapeutic agents or biotherapeutic agents such as antibodies, vaccines,
cytokines, lymphokines, gene and antisense therapies, or other chemotherapeutic or
biotherapeutic agents, would provide novel approaches and significant improvement.
        [0012] In the inventive compositions and methods, the term suboptimal therapy
includes agents where Phase I toxicity precluded further human clinical evaluation. It
also includes those agents from Phase II trials where limited (<25% response rates) or
no significant tumor responses were identified. Also, suboptimal therapy includes those
agents, the subject of Phase III clinical trials the outcome of which was either medically
or statistically not significant to warrant regulatory submission or approval by
government agencies for commercialization or commercialized agents whose clinical
performance (i.e. response rates) as a monotherapy are less than 25%, or whose side
effects are severe enough to limit wide utility. Agents with suboptimal clinical activity
                                                5

include but are not limited to the following: indirubin and analogs thereof, including
meisoindigo.
       [0013] One aspect of the invention is a method to improve the efficacy and/or
reduce the side effects of suboptimally administered drug therapy comprising the steps
of:
               (i)     identifying at least one factor or parameter associated with the
efficacy and/or occurrence of side effects of the drug therapy; and
               (ii)    modifying the factor or parameter to improve the efficacy and/or
reduce the side effects of the drug therapy.
       [0014] In this method, the factor or parameter can be selected from the group
consisting of:
               (i)     dose modification;
               (ii)    route of administration;
               (iii)   schedule of administration;
               (iv)    indications for use;
               (v)     selection of disease stage;
               (vi)    other indications;
               (vii)   patient selection;
               (viii)  patient/disease phenotype;
               (ix)    patient/disease genotype;
               (x)     pre/post-treatment preparation
               (xi)    toxicity management;
               (xii)   pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic monitoring;
               (xiii)  drug combinations;
               (xiv)   chemosensitization;
               (xv)    chemopotentiation;
               (xvi)   post-treatment patient management;
               (xvii) alternative medicine/therapeutic support;
               (xviii) bulk drug product improvements;
               (xix)   diluent systems;
                                                6

                 (xx)     solvent systems;
                 (xxi)    excipients;
                 (xxii) dosage forms;
                 (xxiii) dosage kits and packaging;
                 (xxiv) drug delivery systems;
                 (xxv) drug conjugate forms;
                 (xxvi) compound analogs;
                 (xxvii) prodrugs;
                 (xxvii) multiple drug systems;
                 (xxviii) biotherapeutic enhancement;
                 (xxix) biotherapeutic resistance modulation;
                 (xxx) radiation therapy enhancement;
                 (xxxi) novel mechanisms of action; and
                 (xxxii) selective target cell population therapeutics.
       [0015] The drug therapy can be administered to treat a hyperproliferative
disease, such as cancer.
       [0016] Typically, the suboptimally administered drug therapy comprises
administration of a therapeutically active agent selected from the group consisting of: (i)
indirubin; (ii) an analog of indirubin; (iii) a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of
indirubin; and (iv) a pharmaceutical composition comprising indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin, including meisoindigo.
       [0017] Another aspect of the present invention is a composition to improve the
efficacy and/or reduce the side effects of suboptimally administered drug therapy
comprising an alternative selected from the group consisting of:
                 (1)      a therapeutically effective quantity of a modified therapeutic agent
or a derivative, analog, or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or modified therapeutic agent,
wherein the modified therapeutic agent or the derivative, analog or prodrug of the
therapeutic agent or modified therapeutic agent possesses increased therapeutic
efficacy or reduced side effects as compared with an unmodified therapeutic agent;
                 (2)      a composition comprising:
                                                   7

                     (a)    a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent, a
modified therapeutic agent or a derivative, analog, or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or
modified therapeutic agent; and
                     (b)    at least one additional therapeutic agent, therapeutic agent
subject to chemosensitization, therapeutic agent subject to chemopotentiation, diluent,
excipient, solvent system, or drug delivery system, wherein the composition possesses
increased therapeutic efficacy or reduced side effects as compared with an unmodified
therapeutic agent;
              (3)    a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent, a
modified therapeutic agent, or a derivative, analog, or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or
modified therapeutic agent that is incorporated into a dosage form, wherein the
therapeutic agent, the modified therapeutic agent, or the derivative, analog, or prodrug
of a therapeutic agent or modified therapeutic agent incorporated into the dosage form
possesses increased therapeutic efficacy or reduced side effects as compared with an
unmodified therapeutic agent;
              (4)    a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent, a
modified therapeutic agent, or a derivative, analog, or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or
modified therapeutic agent that is incorporated into a dosage kit and packaging, wherein
the therapeutic agent, the modified therapeutic agent, or the derivative, analog, or
prodrug of a therapeutic agent or modified therapeutic agent incorporated into the
dosage kit and packaging possesses increased therapeutic efficacy or reduced side
effects as compared with an unmodified therapeutic agent; and
              (5)    a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent, a
modified therapeutic agent, or a derivative, analog, or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or
modified therapeutic agent that is subjected to a bulk drug product improvement,
wherein the therapeutic agent, the modified therapeutic agent, or the derivative, analog,
or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or modified therapeutic agent subject to the bulk drug
product improvement possesses increased therapeutic efficacy or reduced side effects
as compared with an unmodified therapeutic agent;
                                              8

wherein the therapeutic agent, the modified therapeutic agent or the derivative, analog,
or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or modified therapeutic agent is selected from the
group consisting of: (i) indirubin; (ii) an analog of indirubin; and (iii) a derivative of
indirubin or of an analog of indirubin.
       [0018] Typically, the composition possesses increased efficacy or reduced side
effects for cancer therapy. Typically, the unmodified therapeutic agent is indirubin or an
analog thereof, particularly meisoindigo.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
       [0019] The following invention will become better understood with reference to
the specification, appended claims, and accompanying drawings, where:
       [0020] Figure 1 shows the viability of the AML cell line MV 4-11 (FLT-3 ITD)
after meisoindigo treatments. Viability at 48 hours is shown by (+); viability at 24 hours
is shown by (m).   Results are shown for a control, 1% DMSO without meisoindigo, 0.1
pM meisoindigo, 1 pM meisoindigo, 10 pM meisoindigo, and 100 pM meisoindigo.
       [0021] Figure 2 shows the viability of a number of myeloid cell lines in terms of
the percentage of viable cells after 24 hours of treatment with meisoindigo. Results are
shown for a control, 1% DMSO without meisoindigo, 0.1 pM meisoindigo, 1 pM
meisoindigo, 10 pM meisoindigo, and 100 pM meisoindigo.
       [0022] Figure 3 shows the viability of a number of additional myeloid cell lines in
terms of the percentage of viable cells after 24 hours of treatment with meisoindigo.
Results are shown for a control, 1% DMSO without meisoindigo, 0.1 pM meisoindigo, 1
pM meisoindigo, 10 pM meisoindigo, and 100 pM meisoindigo.
       [0023] Figure 4 shows the targeting of kinases by meisoindigo.
       [0024] Figure 5 shows the overall survival with meisoindigo, alone and with
hydroxyurea, in chronic myelogenous leukemia, together with the results for busulfan.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
                                                9

         [0025] This invention relates to novel compositions and methods to improve the
utility of chemical agents including indirubin and analogs and derivatives thereof with
suboptimal performance for patients with cancer, as well as additional therapeutic
agents or agents capable of therapeutic application. The invention describes the novel
development of improved pharmaceutical ingredients, dosage forms, excipients,
solvents, diluents, drug delivery systems, preservatives, more accurate drug
administrations, improved dose determination and schedules, toxicity monitoring and
ameliorization, techniques or agents to circumvent or reduce toxicity, techniques and
tools to identify/predict those patients who might have a better outcome with a
therapeutic agent by the use of phenotype or genotype determination through the use of
diagnostic kits or pharmacokinetic or metabolism monitoring approaches, the use of
drug delivery systems, novel prodrugs, polymer conjugates, novel routes of
administration, other agents to potentiate the activity of the compounds or inhibit the
repair of suboptimal cellular effects or sub-lethal damage or to "push" the cell into more
destructive cellular phases such as apoptosis. In some cases, the inventive examples
include the use of these sub-optimal therapeutics in conjunction with radiation or other
conventional chemotherapeutic agents or biotherapeutic agents such as antibodies,
vaccines, cytokines, lymphokines, gene and antisense therapies, or other
chemotherapeutic or biotherapeutic agents.
         [0026] By definition, the term "suboptimal therapy" includes agents where Phase
I toxicity precluded further human clinical evaluation. It also includes those agents from
Phase II trials where limited or no significant tumor responses were identified. In
addition, it also includes those agents, the subject of Phase III clinical trials, whose
outcome was either medically or statistically not significant to warrant submission or
approval by regulatory agencies for commercialization or commercialized agents whose
response rates as a monotherapy are less than 25% or whose side-effects are severe
enough to limit wider utility. Agents with suboptimal activity include but are not limited to
the following: indirubin and analogs and derivatives thereof. More specifically, the
inventive methods and compositions also focus on improvements for indirubin and
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo.
                                              10

        [00271 (1)    Suboptimal Therapeutics
        [0028] In general, examples of compounds with suboptimal therapeutic activity
include, but are not limited to, compounds of the following classes: DNA/nucleic acid
binding/reactive agents, topoisomerase inibitors, anti-tubulin agents, signal transduction
inhibitors, protein synthesis inhibitors, inhibitors of DNA transcribing enzymes,
DNA/RNA intercalating agents, DNA minor groove binders, drugs that block steroid
hormone action, photochemically active agents, immune modifying agents, hypoxia
selective cytotoxins, chemical radiation sensitizers and protectors, antisense nucleic
acids, oligonucleotides and polynucleotides therapeutic agents, immune modifying
agents, antitumor antibiotics, biotherapeutics, biologic agents such as cancer vaccines,
antibody therapies, cytokines, lyphokines, gene therapies, nucleic acid therapies,
vascular disrupting agents, anti-angiogenic agents, and cellular therapies. In some
cases, a compound may fall within more than one of these classes; such compounds
are also within the scope of the invention.
        [0029] In some cases, compounds or compositions may be in current clinical
use for one or more indications, but yet be considered suboptimal for another indication,
such as a different type of malignancy, either in terms of the cell type involved in the
malignancy or in terms of the stage of the malignancy. Such compounds or
compositions are within the scope of the invention.
        [0030] Specific examples include indirubin analogs and derivatives thereof as
described below, including, but not limited to, meisoindigo.
        [0031] The structure of indirubin is shown in Formula (I), below.
                                               11

              NH
                                                                                          (I)
       [0032] Also within the scope of the invention are derivatives of indirubin that, for
example, have the hydrogen of the benzene rings replaced with halo or lower alkyl or
have the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen of the five-membered rings replaced with
lower alkyl.
       [0033] Analogs of indirubin include, but are not limited to, the compounds
described below and derivatives thereof.
       [0034] One particular analog of indirubin is a compound named meisoindigo,
whose systemic name is 3-(1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-3-ylidene)-1,3-dihydro-1-methyl
2H-indol-2-one. Meisoindigo has the structure shown as Formula (II):
                 H
                 N
               N
                                           12

                                                                                         (II)
        [0035] Meisoindigo is a derivative of the Chinese herb, Qing dai, Indigo
naturalis. It is a second-generation synthetic derivative of indirubin and is a water
soluble small molecule. Meisoindigo is active against both cell lines and primary cancer
cells. Its IC5o is in the high-pM concentration range. It has shown activity against AML
(acute myelogenous leukemia) (NB4, HL-60, U937), CML (chronic myelogenous
leukemia (K562), colorectal cancer (HT29), HUVEC, ECV304, as well as against
primary AML. Meisoindigo is metabolized by cytochrome P450 1A2 and 2C19 by
oxidation. Meisoindigo is also metabolized by uridine glucuronyltransferases (UGT) via
direct conjugation (i.e., without initial cytochrome P450 oxidation) to produce more polar
metabolites. Meisoindigo also inhibits cytochrome P450 1A2 and 2C8 at low
micromolar concentrations.
        [0036] Figure 1 shows the viability of the AML cell line MV 4-11 (FLT-3 ITD)
after meisoindigo treatments. Viability at 48 hours is shown by (+); viability at 24 hours
is shown by (m).     Results are shown for a control, 1% DMSO without meisoindigo, 0.1
pM meisoindigo, 1 pM meisoindigo, 10 pM meisoindigo, and 100 pM meisoindigo.
        [0037] Figure 2 shows the viability of a number of myeloid cell lines in terms of
the percentage of viable cells after 24 hours of treatment with meisoindigo. Results are
shown for a control, 1% DMSO without meisoindigo, 0.1 pM meisoindigo, 1 pM
meisoindigo, 10 pM meisoindigo, and 100 pM meisoindigo.
        [0038] Figure 3 shows the viability of a number of additional myeloid cell lines in
terms of the percentage of viable cells after 24 hours of treatment with meisoindigo.
Results are shown for a control, 1% DMSO without meisoindigo, 0.1 pM meisoindigo, 1
pM meisoindigo, 10 pM meisoindigo, and 100 pM meisoindigo.
        [0039] Meisoindigo has shown to be effective in murine cancer models.
Meisoindigo has also been shown to be effective in the AML NOD/SCID model, showing
dose-dependent spleen size reduction, in HT-29 colorectal xenografts, Lewis lung
sarcoma, and Walker 256 carcino-sarcoma.
        [0040] Meisoindigo is active via several, possibly novel mechanisms of action. It
has cell cycle specific effects, including arrest in G(O)/G1 for AML cell lines and G2/M
                                                13

arrest for HT-29 colorectal cell lines. It also stimulates apoptosis through a number of
mechanisms, including the upregulation of p21 and p27 and the downregulation of Bcl-2
in primary AML cells, as well as upregulation of Bak and Bax in AML cells (DKO
insensitive to chemotherapy), and a novel caspase-dependent pathway in K562 cells.
Meisoindigo also has effects on mitochondria, but with no change in Bcl-2, Bax, and Bid
protein expression. Meisoindigo also stimulates the cleavage of pro-caspase 3, 8, 9
and PARP in HL-60 myeloid cells.
        [0041] Meisoindigo also is directed to multiple cellular targets, which are
possibly synergistic and complementary. For example, it promotes differentiation of
human myeloblastic leukemic cells, accompanied by downregulation of c-myb gene
expression. It also promotes inhibition of DNA and RNA synthesis in W256 cells,
microtubule assembly, glycogen synthase kinase-3p (GSK-3p) (at 5-50 nM),
CDK1/cyclin B, and CDK5/p25 (tau microtubule protein phosphorylation). Additionally,
meisoindigo decreases p-catenin and c-myc (HL-60 cells, but not in K562), affects the
Wnt pathway through inhibiting GSK-3p and downregulating p-catenin and c-myc
protein expression. Meisoindigo also promotes upregulation of CD1 1b, promoting
myeloid differentiation, and upregulation of Ahi-1 in Jurkat cells (inducing
phosphorylation of c-Myb. Furthermore, meisoindigo exhibits antiangiogenic effects,
including decreased VEGF protection, VCAM-1, tubule formulation in HUVEC, and
ECV304 apoptosis.
        [0042] As shown in Figure 4, meisoindigo targets a number of kinases. The
strongest binding is with NEK9, but significant binding is also shown with STK25, PAK1,
TSSK1 B, and ERBB3. This suggests that meisoindigo can affect a substantial number
of pathways regulated by kinase activity or by proteins phosphorylated by kinase
activity.
        [0043] Meisoindigo is rapidly absorbed and widely distributed in the tissues. It is
metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated N-demethylation and mono
ring hydroxylation. There are no major interspecies differences between the
metabolism of meisoindigo in rats, pigs, and humans, and no sex differences in
metabolism. The human hepatic internal CL is ~ 83 (Clint, mL/mg/kg). Excretion of
                                               14

meisoindigo is through renal and biliary routes, with renal excretion strongly
predominating.
        [0044] Rodent and non-rodent toxicology studies indicate a safe profile for
meisoindigo. The single dose LD50 in rats is 3.9 g/kg, an extremely high dose. In rats,
up to 400 mg/kg/d p.o. for 30 days is well tolerated. In dogs, 10 mg/kg/d p.o. for 6
months is well tolerated. The target organs in rat and dog are liver and the
gastrointestinal tract. Meisoindigo is not genotoxic in the Ames and Chromabs tests.
        [0045] Several decades of clinical work on meisoindigo supports its safety, with
clinical trials as a single agent or in combination with chemotherapy. It has been well
tolerated in several patient populations. Common adverse effects include mild nausea
and vomiting (30%), which spontaneously disappeared in two weeks, with no cardiac,
hepatic, or renal adverse effects. However, anticipated potential side effects include
marrow suppression, joint pain, skin itch, gastrointestinal symptoms including nausea,
vomiting, anorexia, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, and diarrhea, edema,
pigmentation of face and extremities, headache, head distention, or alterations in liver
function, with slight increase in alanine transaminase (ALT).
        [0046] Previous experience with meisoindigo includes several trials in chronic
myelogenous leukemia (CML). The regimen was 50-200 mg/d p.o. for several days; it
was used as a single agent and in combinations with other chemotherapeutic agents,
including busulfan and hydroxyurea. There was a reduction of splenomegaly (median
25 d) followed by leukocyte count (median 31 d). There was a complete hematologic
response in 33% of patients and a partial hematologic response in 58% of patients. A
synergistic effect with hydroxyurea was seen.
        [0047] The overall survival with meisoindigo, alone and with hydroxyurea, in
chronic myelogenous leukemia is shown in Figure 5. Figure 5 also shows the results
with busulfan.
        [0048] One possible additional use for meisoindigo is in patients with acute
myelogenous leukemia, acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), acute lymphoblastic
leukemia (ALL), or high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) who are unsuitable for
treatment with standard chemotherapy regimens (i.e., elderly, considered to be poor
                                              15

risk, or chemorefractory). The meisoindigo can be administered as a single agent orally
in a soft gel capsule; dosing would start at 100 or 150 mg and increase. If no dose
limiting toxicity (DLT) is seen after 4 weeks of treatment, the highest dose level could be
used. Other dosing alternatives are described below, including use with additional
agents in addition to meisoindigo.
        [0049] Other indirubin analogs and derivatives are within the scope of the
present invention. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
        [0050] U.S. Patent No. 6,566,341 to Wang et al. discloses indirubin (Formula I)),
isoindigo (Formula (III)), indigo (Formula (IV)) and derivatives thereof, shown in
Formulas (V), (VI), and (VII) along with 1-(p-D-O-triacetyl-xylopyranosyl)-isoindigo
(Formula (VIII). In these indirubin, isoindigo, or indirubin derivatives, R1, R2, R3, R4 , R5 ,
R6 , R7, R8 , R9 , and R10 are independently a hydrogen, a monosaccharide, a
disaccharide, a halogen, a hydrocarbyl group, or a functional hydrocarbyl group
unsubstituted or substituted with one or more hydroxyl moieties, carboxyl moieties,
nitroxyl moieties, monosaccharides, disaccharides, amines, amides, thiols, sulfate
groups, sulfonate groups, sulfonamide groups, or halogens, wherein a hydrocarbyl has
1 to 12 carbon atoms.
                     H
                     N
                                              16

                     (0v
            R17
      00
   R3
                 Ry
R4
   R5            RR,
                     (vi
       R3 0     17

                R4
   R5
                         R3 O            R7
R6                                                   R8
         RNN                  N
                              R2                     R9
                         0               R10
                                                                                       (VII)
                                                            N O
                                                 AocO   AcO
                                                                                      (VIII)
       [0051] U.S. Patent No. 6,664,285 to Eisenbrand et al. discloses indigoid
bisindigo derivatives of Formula (IX) in which: (i) when X is an oxygen atom, R1 is a
hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, a -NO 2 group, a methyl group, a sulfonamide group,
or S0 2-NH-CH 2CH 2-OH.; or (ii) when X is NOH, R1 is a hydrogen atom or an iodine
atom.
                      R1
               0
             NH       NH
                                                                                        (IX)
                                             18

        [0052] U.S. Patent No. 6,987,092 to Eisenbrand et al. discloses additional
indigoid bisindigo derivatives of Formula (X) in which: X and Y are the same or different
and are an oxygen atom; a sulfur atom; a selenium atom; a tellurium atom; a group N-A
B-R1 4 in which A is a single bond or an oxygen atom, --NH-- or --NH-CO-; B is a single
bond or a group [(CD2)nZ]m wherein D has the same meaning as R1 4 and Z is an oxygen
atom or -NH-, n is 0 or an integer and m is an integer; and the group R14 is a hydrogen
atom, a straight-chain or branched-chain alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms which
can carry one or more hydroxy and/or amino groups and can be substituted by one or
more carboxyl groups and/or phosphoryl groups, a substituted or unsubstituted aryl
group which can comprise one or more heteroatoms, an aralkyl group, an acyl group, a
gycoside selected from monosaccharides, disaccharides or oligosaccharides, or a
group selected from the group consisting of sugars, amino acids, peptides or steroid
hormones; or a hydrazone group N--NR 15R 6 , wherein R15 and Ri 6 can be the same or
different and represent a hydrogen atom, a straight-chain or branched-chain alkyl group
having 1 to 18 carbon atoms which can be substituted by one or more carboxyl groups
and/or phosphoryl groups, a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group which can comprise
one or more heteroatoms, an aralkyl group, an acyl group, or a glycoside selected from
monosaccharides, disaccharides or oligosaccharides, or a group selected from the
group consisting of sugars, amino acids, peptides or steroid hormones; R2 , R3 , R4, R5 ,
R7, R8 , R9 and R10 can be the same or different and represent a hydrogen atom; a
halogen atom; a hydroxy group; a nitroso group; a nitro group; an aryloxy group; an
alkoxy group; a straight-chain or branched-chain alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon
atoms which can additionally carry one or more hydroxy and/or amino groups; a
substituted or unsubstituted aryl group which can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a
cycloalkyl group having 3 to 7 carbon atoms which can comprise one or more
heteroatoms; an aralkyl group; a trifluoromethyl group; a --COM group; a --COOM
group; a --CH 2COOM group, wherein M is hydrogen, a straight-chain or branched-chain
alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms which can additionally carry one or more
hydroxy and/or amino groups, or an aryl group which can comprise one or more
heteroatoms and can be substituted with one or more halogen atoms, one or more alkyl
                                            19

groups or one or more alkoxy groups; a --NR R        group, wherein R" and R12 can be
the same or different and represent a hydrogen atom, a straight-chain or branched
chain alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms which can additionally carry one or more
hydroxy and/or amino groups, a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group which can
comprise one or more heteroatoms, or an acyl group, or R" and R1 2 form together a
ring having 2 to 6, optionally substituted, CH 2 groups; a benzyl group, wherein the
benzene nucleus can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a hydroxylamino group; a
phosphate group; a phosphonate group; a sulfate group; a sulfonamide group, wherein
the nitrogen atom can be independently substituted by a hydrogen atom, a straight
chain or branched-chain alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms which can additionally
carry one or more hydroxy and/or amino groups, a substituted or unsubstituted aryl
group or wherein the nitrogen atom is part of a cycloalkyl group having 3 to 7 carbon
atoms which can comprise one or more heteroatoms; an azo group N=N-R             , in which
R13 represents an aromatic system which can be substituted by one or more carboxyl
groups and/or phosphoryl groups; or a 0-glycoside or a N-glycoside, wherein the
glycoside is selected from monosaccharides, disaccharides or oligosaccharides; or a
group selected from the group consisting of sugars, amino acids, peptides or steroid
hormones; or R1 and R5 , and R6 and R10 , respectively, form independently from each
other a ring together having 1 to 4, optionally substituted, CH 2 groups; the groups R1
and R6 are the same or different and represent a hydrogen atom; a halogen atom; a
hydroxy group; a methylenehydroxy group; a straight-chain or branched-chain alkyl
group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms; a cycloalkyl group having 3 to 7 carbon atoms
which can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group
which can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a mono-, di- or trialkylsilyl group having
1 to 6 carbon atoms independently of each other in each instance in the straight-chain
or branched-chain alkyl group; a mono-, di- or triarylsilyl group with substituted or
unsubstituted aryl groups independently of each other in each instance; an aralkyl
group; a trifluoromethyl group; a --COM group; a --COOM group; a --CH 2COOM group,
wherein M is hydrogen, a straight-chain or branched-chain alkyl group having 1 to 18
carbon atoms which can additionally carry one or more hydroxy and/or amino groups, or
                                             20

an aryl group which can comprise one or more heteroatoms and can be substituted with
one or more halogen atoms, one or more alkyl groups or one or more alkoxy groups; a
-NR17R18 group, wherein R17 and R18 can be the same or different and represent a
hydrogen atom, a straight-chain or branched-chain alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon
atoms which can additionally carry one or more hydroxy and/or amino groups, a
substituted or unsubstituted aryl group which can comprise one or more heteroatoms, or
an acyl group; a methyleneamino group --CH 2--NR17 R 8 , wherein R17 and R18 have the
above definitions; a benzyl group, wherein the benzene nucleus can comprise one or
more heteroatoms; a methylenecycloalkyl group having 3 to 7 carbon atoms which can
comprise one or more heteroatoms; a physiological amino acid residue bound to the
nitrogen as an amide; an 0-glycoside or a N-glycoside, wherein the glycoside is
selected from monosaccharides, disaccharides or oligosaccharides; or a group selected
from the group consisting of sugars, amino acids, peptides or steroid hormones; or a
methylene sulfonate group. The indigo derivatives have the general formula Formula
(XI) wherein R1 to R10 and X and Y have the same meanings as for Formula (X). Also
included are compounds of Formula (XII) wherein R1 to R10 have the same meanings as
for Formula (XI) and R19 and R2 0 , which may be the same or different, have the same
meanings as R2 for Formula (X).
                                                                                      (X)
                                            21

               N   x
  RS      R               R
      R81    Y    N     R
                                                                                            (XI)
                     RT       Y    RI         R2
          R8                                          R3
                                      N
                  I                 /
            R9              N                         R4
                 R                                    R
                     R1       R6   X          R5
                                                                                           (XII1)
          [0053] United States Patent No. 7,582,670 to Wang et al. discloses derivatives
and analogs of indirubin of Formulas (V), (VI), and (VII) wherein: R3, R4 , R5 , R6 , R7 , R8 ,
R9 , and R10 are the same or different and represent a hydrogen atom; a hydroxy group;
a nitroso group; a nitro group; a monosaccharide; a disaccharide; a halogen atom; a
hydrocarbyl group, or a functional hydrocarbyl group unsubstituted or substituted with
one or more hydroxy moieties, carboxy moieties, nitroxy moieties, monosaccharides,
disaccharides, amines, amides, thiols, sulfates, sulfonates, sulfonamides or halogens,
wherein the hydrocarbyl has 1 to 8 carbon atoms; a -R 1 1 R12 group, wherein R11 and R12
can be the same or different and represent a hydrogen atom, a straight-chain or
branched-chain alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms which can additionally carry
one or more hydroxy and/or amino groups, a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group
which can comprise one or more heteroatoms, or an acyl group, or R11 and R1 2 form
                                             22

together a ring having 2 to 6, optionally substituted, CH 2 groups; an azo group
-N=N-R   13 , wherein R1 3 represents an aromatic system which can be substituted by one
or more carboxyl groups and/or phosphoryl groups, or a group selected from the group
consisting of sugars, amino acids, peptides or steroid hormones; or R1 and R6 , and R2
and R7, respectively, form independently from each other a ring together having 1 to 4,
optionally substituted, CH 2 groups; and R1 and R2 are the same or different and
represent a hydrogen atom; a halogen atom; a hydroxy group; a hydrocarbyl group, or a
functional hydrocarbyl group unsubstituted or substituted with one or more hydroxy
moieties, carboxy moieties, nitroxy moieties, monosaccharides, disaccharides, amines,
amides, thiols, sulfates, sulfonates, sulfonamides or halogens, wherein the hydrocarbyl
has 1 to 8 carbon atoms; a mono-, di- or trialkylsilyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms
independently of each other in each instance in the straight-chain or branched-chain
alkyl group; a mono-, di- or triarylsilyl group with substituted or unsubstituted aryl groups
independently of each other in each instance; a -NR 17R18 group, wherein R1 7 and R18
can be the same or different and represent a hydrogen atom, a straight-chain or
branched-chain alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms which can additionally carry
one or more hydroxy and/or amino groups, a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group
which can comprise one or more heteroatoms, or an acyl group; a methyleneamino
group -CH 2-NR    17R18 , wherein R1 7 and R18 have the above definitions; a physiological
amino acid residue bound to the nitrogen as an amide, substituted or unsubstituted
monosaccharide, disaccharides or oligosaccharides; or a sugar, amino acid, peptide or
steroid hormone. Preferably, at least R1 or R2 is a monosaccharide, a disaccharide
unsubstituted or substituted with one or more hydroxy moieties or carboxy moieties; a
halogen; a hydrocarbyl group, or a functional hydrocarbyl group unsubstituted or
substituted with one or more hydroxy moieties, carboxy moieties, nitroxy moieties,
monosaccharides, disaccharides, amines, amides, thiols, sulfates, sulfonates,
sulfonamides or halogens, wherein the hydrocarbyl has 1 to 8 carbon atoms. In another
embodiment at least R1 or R2 is an acetylated monosaccharide. Preferably, at least R1
or R2 can be a methyl group. United States Patent No. 7,582,670 to Wang et al. also
discloses a compound that is a derivative of Formula (VIII) above in which the hydrogen
                                               23

bound to the nitrogen of the five-membered ring is replaced with a methyl group. This
compound is shown as Formula (XIII).
                               N   0
                          0
                         OAe
                   AcO
                                                                                       (XIII)
        [0054] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2002/0107404 by Prien
et al. discloses sulfur-containing indirubin derivatives of Formula (XIV), wherein R1 and
R2 stand for hydrogen, halogen, hydroxy, nitroso, nitro, C1-C1o alkoxy optionally
interrupted by one or more oxygen atoms; C1-C18 alkyl optionally substituted in one or
more places with halogen, hydroxy and/or amino; aryl or heteroaryl optionally
substituted in one or more places with halogen, C1-C6 alkyl, hydroxy, amino and/or C1
C6  alkoxy; or aralkyl, aryloxy, methylenaryloxy, C3-C8 cycloalkyl, C3-C8 cycloalkenyl or
C3-C7   methylenecycloalkyl optionally substituted in one or more places with halogen,
C1-C6   alkyl, hydroxy, amino and/or C1-C6 alkoxy and optionally containing one or more
heteroatoms; or hydroxylamino, phosphate, phosphonate, sulfate, sulfonate,
sulfonamide optionally substituted in one or more places with halogen, C1-C6 alkyl,
hydroxy, amino and/or C1-C6 alkoxy; or a -COM group, -COOM group, -CH 2 COOM
group, -CONR 10 R11 group, -NR R10 R11 group, -SO 2 NR R10 R11 group, -N=N--R 8 group or
an --S(O)oR 6 group; or an O-glycoside or N-glycoside, whereby the glycosides are
selected from the group of mono- or disaccharides, R3 stands for oxygen, sulfur,
selenium, tellurium or the group =NOR 7 or =NR 9, R4 and R5 stand for hydrogen,
halogen, hydroxy, nitroso, nitro, C1-C10 alkoxy optionally interrupted by one or more
oxygen atoms; C1-C18 alkyl optionally substituted in one or more places with halogen,
hydroxy and/or amino; aryl, benzyl, benzyloxy, or heteroaryl optionally substituted in
one or more places with halogen, C1-C6 alkyl, hydroxy, amino and/or C1-C6 alkoxy; or
                                              24

aralkyl, aryloxy, methylenaryloxy, C3-C8 cycloalkyl, C3-C8 cycloalkenyl or C3-C7
methylenecycloalkyl optionally substituted in one or more places with halogen, C1-C6
alkyl, hydroxy, amino and/or C1-C6 alkoxy and optionally containing one or more
heteroatoms; or hydroxylamino, phosphate, phosphonate, sulfate, sulfonate,
sulfonamide optionally substituted in one or more places with halogen, C1-C6 alkyl,
hydroxy, amino and/or C1-C6 alkoxy; or a -COM group, -COOM group, -CH 2 COOM
group, -CON R10R       group, -NR R10 R   group, -SO 2 NR R10 R   group, -N=N--R group or
an --S(O)nR 6 group; or an 0-glycoside or N-glycoside, whereby the glycosides are
selected from the group of mono- or disaccharides, and R6 stands for hydrogen, C1-C18
alkyl that is substituted in one or more places with halogen, hydroxy and/or amino; aryl,
heteroaryl or C3-C8 cycloalkyl that is optionally substituted in one or more places with
halogen, hydroxy, amino, C1-C6 alkyl and/or C1-C6 alkoxy; or R1 or R2 , or R4 or R5,
independently of one another, form a ring with 1 to 4 -CH    2 groups, which,
independently of one another, optionally are substituted in one or two places with
halogen, hydroxy, nitroso, nitro, C1-C10 alkoxy; C1-C18 alkyl that is optionally substituted
in one or more places with halogen, hydroxy and/or amino; aryl or heteroaryl that is
optionally substituted in one or more places with halogen, C1-C6 alkyl, hydroxy, amino
and/or C1-C6 alkoxy; or aralkyl, aryloxy, methylenaryloxy, C3-C8 cycloalkyl, C3-C8
cycloalkenyl or C3-C7 methylenecycloalkyl that is optionally substituted in one or more
places with halogen, C1-C6 alkyl, hydroxy, amino and/or C1-C6 alkoxy and that optionally
contains one or more heteroatoms; or hydroxylamino, phosphate, phosphonate, sulfate,
sulfonate, sulfonamide that is optionally substituted in one or more places with halogen,
C1-C6   alkyl, hydroxy, amino and/or C1-C6 alkoxy; or a -COM group, -COOM group,
CH 2 COOM group, -CONR 0 R         group, -NR R10 R   group, -SG 2 NR R10 R   group, -N=N-
R group or an --S(O)oR group; or an G-glycoside or N-glycoside, whereby the
glycosides are selected from the group of mono- or disaccharides, R7 is hydrogen, C1
C18 alkyl, C1-C18 alkenyl, C3-C8 cycloalkyl, or C3-C8 cycloalkenyl that is optionally
substituted by one or more oxygen atoms, R8 is aryl that is optionally substituted by one
or more carboxyl, phosphoryl, or sulfonate groups, R9 is hydrogen, C1-C18 alkyl that is
optionally substituted in one or more places with carboxy, phosphoryl or sulfonate
                                              25

groups, or an aryl group with one or more heteroatoms that is optionally substituted with
aralkyl or sulfonate, R10 and R" are the same or different and mean hydrogen or C1-C18
alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl or acyl that is optionally substituted with hydroxy and/or amino; or
C1-C18 alkyl, C3-C8 cycloalkyl or C3-C8 cycloalkenyl that is optionally interrupted by one
or more oxygen atoms, or R10 and R" together with the nitrogen atom of the amino
group forms a C3-C8 cycloalkyl, which can contain one or more additional heteroatoms,
M is hydrogen, C1-C18 alkyl that is optionally substituted by one or more hydroxy groups
and/or amino groups, or aryl or heteroaryl that is optionally substituted in one or more
places with halogen, C1-C6 alkyl or C1-C6 alkoxy, n is 0, 1, or 2, and at least one of R1 ,
R2 , R4 , or R5 is substituted with an S(O)oR6 group, and optical isomers and salts thereof.
Examples include 5-methylsulfanylindirubin, 5-methylsulfinylindirubin, 5-methylsulfinyl
3'-hydroxyiminoindirubin, and 5-methylsulfanyl-5'-N-acetylindirubin.
                               R3
          R4
          R5H
                                                                                            (XIV)
         [0055] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2002/0132792 by Prien
et al. discloses aryl-substituted indirubin derivatives of Formula (XV) in which: R1 , R2 , R4
and R5 are hydrogen, hydroxy, C1-C6 alkoxy, aryloxy, trifluoromethyl, nitro, halogen,
cyano or the group -SOpR 6 , -SO 2 NR7 R8 , or -COR 9; or is aryl or heteroaryl that is
optionally substituted by the same or a different component in one or more places with
hydroxy, halogen, C1-C6 alkyl, amino, nitro, trifluoromethyl, -O-Si(C 1 -C6 alkyl) 3 , cyano,
COOC1-C4 alkyl, C01-4 alkyl, C01-4 aryl, S0 2 (C1-C       alkyl), SO 2 aryl and/or C1-C 6 alkoxy,
                                                       4
R3 is hydrogen or -NOR 9 , or R1 and R2 or R4 and R5 optionally form another C3-C6
                                               26

membered ring, R6 is hydrogen, C1-C18 alkyl that is optionally substituted in one or more
places with halogen, hydroxy and/or amino; aryl, heteroaryl or C3-C8 cycloalkyl that is
optionally substituted in one or more places with halogen, hydroxy, amino, C1-C5 alkyl
and/or C1-C6 alkoxy, R7 and R8 are the same or different and are hydrogen or for C1-C18
alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl or acyl that is optionally substituted in one or more places with
hydroxy, halogen and/or amino; or C1-C18 alkyl, C3-C8 cycloalkyl or C3-C8 cycloalkenyl
that is optionally interrupted by one or more oxygen atoms, or R or R8 together with the
nitrogen atom of the amino group form a C3-C8 cycloalkyl which can contain one or
more additional heteroatoms, R9 is hydrogen or C1-C6 alkyl that is optionally substituted
in one or more places with hydroxy, halogen, C1-C4 alkoxy, amino, nitro, trifluoromethyl,
cyano, COOC1-4 alkyl, C01-4 alkyl, C01-4 aryl, S02(C1-C4 alkyl) and/or S0 2 -aryl; or for
aryl or heteroaryl that is optionally substituted in one or more places with halogen, C1-C6
alkyl, hydroxy, amino, nitro, trifluoromethyl, cyano, COOC1-C4 alkyl, C01-4 alkyl, C01-4
aryl, S02(C1.4 alkyl), SO 2 arylamino and/or C1-C6 alkoxy, and p is 0, 1, or 2, and
whereby at least of one of the two radicals R1 and R2 or the two radicals R4 and R5 is an
aryl or heteroaryl radical, as well as isomers and salts thereof, with the following
examples: 5-(4-methoxyphenyl)-indirubin.
                                             RI
              R4                         -3
                                    T
              R5                 N               N
                                                                                          (XV)
        [0056] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2005/0080020 by
Eisenbrand et al. discloses hydroxylated indirubin derivatives of Formula (XVI) wherein
R is a straight-chain or branched chain alkyl group or a straight-chain or branched chain
                                               27

alkoxy group each having 1 to 18 carbon atoms, preferably 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and R'
represents H, a straight-chain or branched chain alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms
or a glucuronide group, and X is H or OH, including 6-hydroxy-5-methylindirubin and
6,7'-dihydroxy-5-methylindirubin and their glucuronide derivatives, i.e. 3,4,5-trihydroxy
6-(5-methyl-1 H,1'H-[2',3]bis-indolyliden-2,3'-dion-6-yl)-tetrahydropyran-2-carboxylic acid
and 3,4,5-trihydroxy-6-(7'-hydroxy-5-methyl-1 H1'H-[2',3]bisindolyliden-2,3'-dion-6-yl)
tetrahydropyran-2-carboxylic acid. 5-methylindirubin is also recited as having
anticancer properties.
                           R          OR'
                                     NH
                        N
                                                                                        (XVI)
        [0057] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2008/0194021 by Mays
discloses a number of indirubin analogs and derivatives, including compounds of
Formula (XVII) wherein: each X is independently 0, S, N-OR1 , N(Z), or two groups
independently selected from hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, iodo, NO2 , phenyl, and C1
C6 alkyl, wherein R1 is hydrogen, C1-C6 alkyl, or (C1-C6 alkyl)C(O)-; each Y is
independently hydrogen, C1-C6 alkyl, (C1-C6 alkyl)C(O)-, (C1-C6 alkyl)C(O)O-, phenyl,
N(Z)(Z), sulfonyl, phosphonyl, fluoro, chloro, bromo, or iodo; each Z is independently
hydrogen, C1-C6 alkyl, phenyl, benzyl, or both Z groups together with the nitrogen to
which they are attached form 5-, 6-, or 7-membered heterocycloalkyl; each n is
independently 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4; each R is independently hydrogen, C1-C6 alkyl, (C1-C6
alkyl)-C(O)-, phenyl, benzyl, or benzoyl; wherein alkyl is branched or straight-chain,
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 hydroxyl, N(Z)(Z), C1-C6 alkyl, phenyl, benzyl,
                                              28

fluoro, chloro, bromo, or iodo; where any phenyl, benzyl, or benzoyl is optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 hydroxyl, N(Z)(Z), C1-C6 alkyl, fluoro, chloro, bromo, or
iodo; or a salt thereof.
              (Y).
                                     NNs
                                   R     X
                                                                                        (XVII)
        [0058] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2008/207594 by
Mussmann et al. discloses indirubin derivatives of Formula (XVIII) wherein: R5 and R6
are independently hydrogen, C1-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted, or -CO-C1-C6 alkyl,
optionally substituted, wherein the substituents are independently selected from one or
more of halo, -CN, hydroxyl, -0-C1-C6 alkyl, -COOH, -COOC1-C6 alkyl, -CONH 2,
-CONH(C 1 -C6 alkyl), -CON(C 1 -C6 alkyl) 2, aryl, heteroaryl, or combinations thereof; each
R7 and R8 is independently selected from C1-C6 alkyl, C2-C6 alkenyl, C2-C6 alkynyl, C3
C10 cycloalkyl; C3-C10 heterocyclyl, aryl with 6 to 10 carbon atoms, heteroaryl with 5 to
10 ring atoms, each optionally substituted with halo, -NO2 , -CN, -OR', -COOR1 , or
NR1R2 , where R1 and R2 are independently selected from one or more of halo, -CN,
hydroxyl, -0-C1-C6 alkyl, -COOH, -COOC1-C6 alkyl, -CONH 2 , -CONH(C 1 -C6 alkyl),
-CON(C 1 -C6 alkyl) 2, aryl, heteroaryl, or combinations thereof; wherein alkyl, alkenyl, or
alkynyl is optionally substituted with one or more of oxo, halo, -NO2 , -CN, -OR1 ,
-COOR 1 , -OCOR,-NRR 2 , -NR1COR 2 , -NR 1 0COR 2 , -NRCONRR 2 , -SR 1 , -SOR1 ,
-S0 2 R1 , -SONR 1 R2 , -SO 2 NR1 R2 , -NRlSO 2NR1 R2 , or combinations thereof, wherein R1
and R2 are as defined above; wherein cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, or heteroaryl is
optionally substituted with C1-C6 alkyl, oxo, halo, -NO2 , -CN, -OR1 , -COOR1 , -OCOR1 ,
-NR1 R2 , -NR1COR2 , -NR 10COR2 , -NR1CONRR 2 , -SR 1 , -SOR 1 , -S0 2 R1 , -SONR 1 R2 ,
SO 2 NR1 R2 , -NR1SO 2 NR1 R2 , or combinations thereof, wherein R1 and R2 are as defined
                                               29

above; or two R7 or two R8 can together form a ring; wherein n is 0, 1, 2, or 3, and
wherein m is 0, 1, 2, or 3; or an optical isomer or salt thereof.
                               NOR 6            \.. (R8)
           (R7                                Np 5
                                       0
                                                                                        (XVIII)
         [0059] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2010/0016252 by Keana
et al. discloses Mannich base N-oxides or N-oxide rearrangement prodrugs of a number
of indirubin derivatives, including indirubin, indirubin-3'-oxime, indirubin-5-sulfonic acid,
and 5-chloroindirubin.
         [0060] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2010/0137356 by
Cheng et al. discloses N-1 -methylisoindigo as well as azaindole-indole coupled
derivatives. The compounds of United States Patent Application Publication No.
2010/0137356 by Cheng et al. include: (1) azaindole-indole coupled derivatives linked
by a double bond of the general schematic formula Y=Z, in which Y is an azaindole
group represented by Formula (XIX) or (XX) and Z is an indole group represented by
Formula (XXI) or (XXII), wherein the double bond in "Y=Z" is located between the 3
position of the azaindole group (Y) and the 2'- or 3'-position of the indole group (Z), and
in which: R1 and R' independently are hydrogen or the following groups which may be
unsubstituted or substituted by 1 to 3 substituents: C1-C6 alkyl, aryl, aralkyl, acyl, aroyl,
glycosyl or biosyl protected by acyl, glycosyl or biosyl; wherein said substituents are
selected from: halogen, hydroxyl, C1-C3 alkyl, nitro or amino; R2 , R3 , R4, R2', R3', R4 ' and
R5' independently represent H, halogen, hydroxyl, sulfhydryl, or the following groups
which may be unsubstituted or substituted by 1 to 3 substituents: C1-C4 alkyl, nitro,
amino, amido, amide, C1-C4 alkoxy, methylthio, phenyl, phenoxy, aryl, aralkyl,
trifluoromethyl, acyl, aroyl, sulfonic group, sulfamoyl, isocyanate, or alkyl isocyanate;
                                               30

wherein said substituents are selected from: halogen, hydroxyl, C1-C3 alkyl, nitro or
amino; R2 , R3 , R4 , R2 ', R3 ', R4' and R5' independently represent H, halogen, hydroxyl,
sulfhydryl, or the following groups which may be unsubstituted or substituted by 1 to 3
substituents: C1-C4 alkyl, nitro, amino, amido, amide, C1-C4 alkoxy, methylthio, phenyl,
phenoxy, aryl, aralkyl, trifluoromethyl, acyl, aroyl, sulfonic group, sulfamoyl, isocyanate,
or alkyl isocyanate; wherein said substituents are selected from: halogen, hydroxyl, C1
C3  alkyl, nitro or amino; R represents oxygen, sulfur, or selenium, or a NR6 or NOR 6
group, wherein R6 is H or the following groups which may be unsubstituted or
substituted by 1 to 3 substituents: C1-C6 straight-chain or branched chain alkyl, aryl,
aralkyl, C3-C6 alicyclic group, acyl, aroyl, sulfonyl, or phosphoryl, wherein the
substituents are selected from halogen, hydroxyl, C1-C3 alkyl, nitro, or amino; (2)
compounds of Formulas (XXIII), (XXIV), (XXV), and (XXVI) in which: R, R1 , R', R2, R3
R4 , R2 ', R3 ', R4' and R5' are defined as above in compounds of the general schematic
formula Y=Z; and (3) compounds of Formulas (XXIII), (XXIV), (XXV), and (XXVI) in
which: R1 and R1' independently are hydrogen, C1-C6 alkyl, aryl, aralkyl, acyl, aroyl,
glycosyl protected by acyl, or glycosyl; R2 , R3 , R4 , R2 ', R3 ', R4 ' and R5 ' are hydrogen,
halogen, hydroxyl, sulfhydryl, C1-C4 alkyl, amino, amide, C1-C4 alkoxy, methylthio,
phenyl, phenyloxy, aryl, aralkyl, trifluoromethyl, acyl, aroyl, sulfonic group, or
isocyanate; and R represents oxygen, sulfur, or selenium, or a NR6 or NOR 6 group,
wherein R6 is H or the following groups which may be unsubstituted or substituted by 1
to 3 substituents: C1-C6 straight-chain or branched chain alkyl, aryl, aralkyl, C3-C6
alicyclic group, acyl, aroyl, sulfonyl, or phosphoryl, wherein the substituents are selected
from halogen, hydroxyl, C1-C3 alkyl, nitro, or amino. In these compounds, compounds
of Formula (XXIII) are 5-azaindirubin derivatives, compounds of Formula (XXIV) are 5
azaindigo derivatives, compounds of Formula (XXV) are 7-azaindirubin derivatives, and
compounds of Formula (XXVI) are 7-azaindigo derivatives. Specific compounds
include: 3'-oximido-7-azaindirubin; 7-azaindirubin-3'-oxime ether; 1-methyl-5
azaindirubin; 1-benzyl-5'-chloro-5-azaindirubin; 1-butyl-5-azaindirubin-3'-oxime; 1-butyl
5-azaindirubin-3'-oxime O-methyl ether; 1-isopropyl-5-azaisoindigo; 1-methyl-7
                                                  31

azaindirubin; 1-benzyl-5'-bromo-7-azaindirubin; 1-butyl-7-azaindirubin-3'-oxime; 1-butyl
7-azaindirubin-3'-oxime 0-methyl ether; 1-isopropyl-7-azaisoindigo.
                                R2
                       N       4
                                       3
                       7
                     4
                   R            N2  2
                                                                                    (XIX)
                                     R2
                             5
                  R4    s/        \
                           N
                         7
                                    N2   o
                                    R'
                                                                                     (XX)
                  R            Y
                3        7,
             Nr
             Rl
                                                                                    (XXI)
                                           32

    I,
       5,
          xi''
                         (XXV1)
                   I,
R3
 60            2'      ~
                    7'
          t            R
                         (XXV 1)
            R,    33

                                                                                              (XXVI)
        [0061] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2010/0160318 by Tang
et al. discloses 3-pyrrolo[b]cyclohexylene-2-dihydroindolinone derivatives of Formula
(XXVII), wherein: R1 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halo, alkyl,
cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclic, hydroxy, alkoxy, -C(O)R 7 , -NR8 R9 ,
-(CH 2)nR0 , and C(O)NR 1 R12 ; R2 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
halo, alkyl, haloalkyl, hydroxyl, alkoxy, haloalkoxy, nitro, cyano, -NR8 R9, -NR8 C(O)R 9 ,
-C(O)R 7 , aryl, heteroaryl, -C(O)NR 1 R12     , -S(O) 2 R8R9, and -S(O) 2 R13 ; R3 is selected
from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, haloalkyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, -C(O)R ,
-NR8 R9, aryl, heteroaryl, -S(O) 2 R8R9, -NR8C(O)R 9, -NR8C(O)OR 9 , and -NR8C(O)R 9 ; R4
is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halo, alkyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, and
-NR8 R9; R5 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, and C(O)R 14 ; R6 is
selected from the group consisting of hydroxy, alkoxy, aryloxy, -N(R1 5 )(CH 2)rR16 ,
-NR8 R9, and -N(R     17)-CH(R 1 8 )-CR 1 9(OH)-CH(R 20 )Z; R7 is selected from the group
consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy, alkoxy, and aryloxy; R8 and R9 are each independently
selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl, or
R8 and R9 together with the atoms to which they are attached may form a heteroalicyclic
ring; R10 is selected from the group consisting of hydroxy, -C(O)R 7 , -NR8 R9, and
C(O)NR 8 R9; R" and R12 are each independently selected from the group consisting of
hydrogen, alkyl, and aryl, or R" and R12 together with the nitrogen atom to which they
are attached may form a heteroalicyclic ring; R13 is selected from the group consisting of
alkyl, aryl, aralkyl, heteroaryl, and heteroaralkyl; R14 is selected from the group
consisting of hydroxy, alkoxy, aryloxy, and -NR8 R9; R15 is selected from the group
consisting of hydrogen and alkyl; R16 is selected from the group consisting of hydroxy,
                                                  34

-NR8 R9, -C(O)R 7 , aryl, heteroaryl, -N*(O-)R 8 R9 , N(OH)R 8 , and NHC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is
selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted alkyl, R17 , R1 8 , R19 , and R2 0 are
each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl; Z is
selected from the group consisting of aryl, heteroaryl, and -NR8 R9; and n and r are each
independently an integer from 1 to 4.
                            0
             RR6
            R4
                                                                                          (XVII)
        [0062] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2010/0331327 by Meijer
et al. discloses 7-substituted indirubin-3'-oximes of Formula (XXVIII) wherein R is N-OH,
N-O-alkyl, or N-O-CO-alkyl, NO-(Ra)n1-Het, or N-O-(Y)nl-NRaRb, N-O-CO-N(Rb, Rc)
radical with Het representing an aliphatic nitrogeneous heterocycle, Y is an optionally
substituted -CH 2- radical, n1 is 1 to 3, X is a halogen atom selected from the group
consisting of Fl, Cl, Br, or I, and Z is H or methyl, and the salts thereof.
                            R
                              3'            7  X
                                        N
                  ONHNz
                                                                                         (XVIII)
        [0063] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2011/0136808 by Meijer
et al. discloses 3',6-substituted indirubins of Formula (XXIX) wherein R is -(A)o-Rl or
-CO-N-(R 2 , R3 ) wherein A is a C1-C5 alkylene group, optionally substituted by one or
several Al radicals, wherein A1 is Br, OH, OR 4 , or NH2 , wherein R4 is C1-C5 alkyl, -R1 is
                                               35

halogen, OH, or N(R2 , R3 ) wherein R2 and R3 are identical or different and are C1-C5
alkyl optionally substituted by A as defined above, or R2 and R3 are part of a cyclic
structure with 5 or 6 members optionally comprising another heteroatom such as 0 or
N, and n is 1 to 5.
                R
                                      Br
                  \N                6
                3'
         01
                 NH            NHT_
                                                                                       (XXIX)
        [0064] PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO 1999/062503 by Eisenbrand
et al. discloses indigoid bisindole derivatives of either Formula (XXX), Formula (XXXI),
or Formula (XXII) wherein: R1 and R6 are the same or different, and are hydrogen,
halogen, hydroxy, methylenehydroxy, a straight-chain or branched-chain C1-C18 alkyl
group, a straight-chain or branched-chain C1-C18 alkyloxy group, a straight-chain or
branched-chain C1-C18 methylenealkyloxy group, a C3-C7 cycloalkyl group which can
comprise one or more heteroatoms, a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group which can
comprise one or more heteroatoms, a substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl group which
can comprise one or more heteroatoms, a substituted or unsubstituted aryloxy group
which can comprise one or more heteroatoms, a mono-, di-, or trialkylsilyl group having
1 to 6 carbon atoms independently of each other in each instance in the straight-chain
or branched-chain alkyl group, a mono-, di-, or triarylsilyl group with substituted or
unsubstituted aryl groups independently of each other in each instance, a trifluoromethyl
group; a -COM group, a -COOM group, or a -CH 2 COOM group, wherein M is
hydrogen, a straight-chain or branched-chain C1-C18 alkyl group which can additionally
carry one or more hydroxyl and/or amino groups, or an aryl group which can comprise
one or more heteroatoms and can be substituted with one or more halogen atoms, one
or more alkyl groups, or one or more alkoxy groups; a -NR      1 R1 2 group, wherein R" and
R    are the same or different and are hydrogen, a straight-chain or branched-chain C1
                                              36

C18   alkyl group which can additionally carry one or more hydroxyl and/or amino groups,
a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group which can comprise one or more heteroatoms,
or an acyl group; -CH 2NRR 1 R,   wherein R" and R1 are as defined above; a benzyl
group, wherein the benzene nucleus can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a C3-C7
methylenecycloalkyl group which can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a
physiological amino acid residue bound to the nitrogen as an amide; an 0-glycoside or
an N-glycoside, wherein the glycoside is selected from monosaccharides and
disaccharides; or a methylenesulfonate group; R2 , R3 , R4, R5 , R7 , R8 , R9 and R10 can be
the same or different and are hydrogen, halogen, hydroxy, nitroso, nitro, alkoxy, a
straight-chain or branched-chain C1-C18 alkyl group which can additionally carry one or
more hydroxyl and/or amino groups, a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group which can
comprise one or more heteroatoms; a substituted or unsubstituted aralkyl group which
can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a substituted or unsubstituted aryloxy group
which can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a substituted or unsubstituted
methylenearyloxy group which can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a C3-C7
cycloalkyl group which can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a C3-C7
methylenecycloalkyl group which can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a
trifluoromethyl group; a -COM group, a -COOM group, or a -CH 2 COOM group, wherein
M is hydrogen, a straight-chain or branched-chain C1-C18 alkyl group which can
additionally carry one or more hydroxyl and/or amino groups, or an aryl group which can
comprise one or more heteroatoms and which can be substituted with one or more
halogen atoms, one or more alkyl groups, or one or more alkoxy groups; a -NRRR2
group, wherein R" and R12 are the same or different and are hydrogen, a straight-chain
or branched-chain C1-C18 alkyl group which can additionally carry one or more hydroxyl
and/or amino groups, a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group which can comprise one
or more heteroatoms, or an acyl group, or wherein the nitrogen atom is part of a C3-C7
cycloalkyl group which can comprise one or more heteroatoms; a -CONR           1 R1 2 group,
wherein R" and R12 are as defined above; a hydroxylamino group; a phosphate group;
a phosphonate group; a sulfate group; a sulfonate group; a sulfonamide group; a
-SG 2 NR 1 R    group, wherein R" and R1 are as defined above; an azo group -N=NR
                                              37

wherein R1 3 is an aromatic system which can be substituted by one or more carboxyl
groups, phosphoryl groups, or sulfonate groups; or an 0-glycoside or an N-glycoside,
wherein the glycoside is selected from the group consisting of monosaccharides and
disaccharides; or R1 and R5 , and R6 and R10 can, respectively, form independently from
each other a ring having 1 to 4, optionally substituted, CH 2 groups; and X and Y can be
the same or different and can be an oxygen atom, a sulfur atom, a selenium atom, a
tellurium atom, a -NR14 group in which R1 4 represents a hydrogen atom, a C1-C18
straight-chain or branched-chain alkyl group which can be substituted by one or more
carboxyl groups, phosphoryl groups, or sulfonate groups, a substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group which can comprise one or more heteroatoms, an aralkyl group, or a
sulfonate group; or an -NR14 group in which R1 4 is defined above. The compounds
include: 5-iodoindirubin, 5-bromoindirubin, 5-chloroindirubin, 5-fluoroindirubin, 5
methylindirubin, 5-nitroindirubin, 5'-bromoindirubin, 5,5'-dibromoindirubin, indirubin-3'
oxime, indirubin-5-sulfonic acid, and isoindigo. The compounds can be covalently
bound to a polyethylene glycol ester or a polyethylene glycol ether.
              R
              Re 4'
                RioR*   2 1
                      y   N  \
                             17    R4
                               RS
                                                                                      (XXX)
                   R10
                                      R2
                R8              2'       4 R3
                                                                                     (XXXI)
                                              38

                       7     X        R'        R2
          R        -7-                         7      6R
                    R10     R6                  R5
                                                                                      (XXXII)
        [0065] United States Patent No. 8,349,822 to Yu, incorporated herein by this
reference, discloses several indirubin derivatives as GSK-3 antagonists and Wnt
canonical pathway agonists, including 6-bromoindirubin-3'-oxime and 1-methyl-6
bromoindirubin-3'-oxime.
        [0066] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2012/0295948 by Kim et
al., incorporated herein by this reference, discloses 5-nitroindirubin-3'-oxime, 5'-bromo
5-nitroindirubin-3'-oxime, 5'-hydroxy-5-nitroindirubin-3'-oxime, 5'-hydroxy-5
chloroindirubin-3'-oxime, 5'-hydroxy-5-fluoroindirubin-3'-oxime, 5'-chloro-5
nitroindirubin-3'-oxime, and 5'-methyl-5-nitroindirubin-3'-oxime. Additional compounds
of Formula (XXXIII) are disclosed:
                                                 NoHl
                                                  N
                                                         NH,
                                                  H
                                                                                     (XXXIII)
wherein: R1 is selected from the group consisting of F, Cl, OH, and CH 3; and R2 is
selected from the group consisting of F, Cl, and NO2 .
        [0067] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2012/0101042 by
Duffield et al., incorporated herein by this reference, discloses indirubin-5-sulfonic acid
(2-hydroxyethyl)-amide.
                                              39

        [0068] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2012/0053208 by Li et
al., incorporated herein by this reference, discloses (3-[3-(3,4-dihydroxybutoxyamino)
1H-indol-2-yl]indol-2-one). This compound is compound E804 from a publication, S.
Nam et al., "Indirubin Derivatives Inhibit Stat Signaling and Induce Apoptosis in Human
Cancer Cells," Proc. NatI. Acad. Sci. 102: 5998-6003 (2005), incorporated herein by this
reference, which discloses compounds of Formula (XXXIV):
                                                         R21
                                            R2 ,
                                               N
                                            N                 NH
                                               H      O
                                                                                             (XXXIV)
with the following alternatives for R20 and R21: (i) R20 is                          ;R21 is H
(compound E564); (ii) R20 is       e       ; R2 1 is H (compound E565); (iii) R20 is
                     R2 1 is H (compound E673); (iv) R20 is          . ....            ; R2 1 is I
(compound E692); (v) E721: R20 is H; R2 1 is COOH (compound E721); (vi) E728: R20 is
H; R2 1 is OCH 3 (compound E728); (vii) R2 0 is                         ; R2 1 is OCH 3
(compound E729); (viii) R2 0 is                       ; R2 1 is H (compound E804); (ix) R2 0 is
                     R2 1 is H (compound E805); and R20 is               o         \    ; and R21 is
H (compound E806).
        [0069] Additional indirubin derivatives and analogs are disclosed in: United
States Patent No. 6,989,362 to Bibb et al.; United States Patent No. 7,196,090 to
                                                 40

Connolly et al.; United States Patent No. 7,572,923 to Kim et al.; United States Patent
Application Publication No. 2006/0204980 by Altieri et al.; United States Patent
Application Publication No. 2006/0217368 by Morishita et al.; United States Patent
Application Publication No. 2007/0276025 by Meijer et al.; United States Patent
Application Publication No. 2010/0016252 by Keana et al.; and United States Patent
Application Publication No. 2010/068303 by Wu, all of which are incorporated herein by
this reference.
        [0070] Accordingly, the following indirubin analogs, indirubin derivatives, and
derivatives of indirubin analogs are usable in compositions and methods according to
the present invention: (1) indirubin 3'-monooxime; (2) indirubin 5-sulfonic acid; (3) 5
chloroindirubin; (4) 1H,1'H-[2,3'] biindolylidene-3,2'-dione; (5) 5-fluoro-1 H,1'H-[2,3']
biindolylidene-3,2'-dione; (6) 1H,1'H-[2,3'] biindolylidene-3,2'-dione-3-oxime; (7) 1
acetyl-1 H,1'H-[2,3'] biindolylidene-3,2'-dione; (8) 5'-nitro-1 H,1'H-[2,3'] biindolylidene
3,2'-dione; (9) 5'-nitro-1 H,1'H-[2,3'] biindolylidene-3,2'-dione-3-oxime; (10) 5-fluoro
1H,1 'H-[2,3'] biindolylidene-3,2'-dione-3-oxime; (11) 5'-methyl-1 H,1'H-[2,3']
biindolylidene-3,2'-dione-3-oxime; (12) 5'-chloro-1 H,1'H-[2,3'] biindolylidene-3,2'-dione
3-oxime; (13) 5'-iodo-1 H,1'H-[2,3'] biindolylidene-3,2'-dione-3-oxime; (14) 5',7'-dimethyl
1H,1 'H-[2,3'] biindolylidene-3,2'-dione-3-oxime; (15) 5'-chloro-7'-methyl-1 H,1'H-[2,3']
biindolylidene-3,2'-dione-3-oxime; (16) 5-bromo-1 H,1'H-[2,3'] biindolylidene-3,2'-dione
3-oxime; (17) 3,2'-dioxo-1,3,1',2'-tetrahydro-[2,3']biindolylidene-5'-sodium sulfonate;
(18) 3-hydroxyimino-2'-oxo-,3,1',2'-tetrahydro-[2,3']biindolylidene-5'-sodium sulfonate;
(19) 5-bromo-1 H,1'H-[2,3']-biindolylidene-3,2'-dione; (20) 5-bromo-5'-nitro-1 H,1'H-[2,3']
biindolylidene-3,2'-dione-3-oxime; (21) 5'-methyl-1 H,1'H-[2,3']-biindolylidene-3,2'-dione;
(22) 5'-chloro-1 H,1'H-[2,3']-biindolylidene-3,2'-dione; (23) 5'-iodo-1 H,1'H-[2,3']
biindolylidene-3,2'-dione; (24) 5',7'-dimethyl-1 H,1'H-[2,3']-biindolylidene-3,2'-dione; (25)
5'-chloro,7'-methyl-1 H,1'H-[2,3']-biindolylidene-3,2'-dione; (26) 5'-amino-1 H,1'H-[2,3']
biindolylidene-3,2'-dione; (27) 5-NH-trimethylacetyl-indirubin-3-oxime; (28) 5'-amino
1H,1 'H-[2,3']-biindolylidene-3,2'-dione-3-oxime; (29) 6-hydroxy-5-methylindirubin; (30)
6,7'-dihydroxy-5-methylindirubin; (31) 3,4,5-trihydroxy-6-(5-methyl-1 H,1'H-[2',3]bis
                                               41

indolyliden-2,3'-dion-6-yl)-tetrahydropyran-2-carboxyl ic acid; (32) 3,4,5-trihydroxy-6-(7'
hydroxy-5-methyl-1 H1 'H-[2',3]bisindolyliden-2,3'-dion-6-yl)-tetrahydropyran-2-carboxyl ic
acid; (33) 5-methylindirubin; (34) indirubin-5-sulfonamide; (35) indirubin-5-sulfonic acid
(2-hydroxyethyl)-amide; (36) 5-iodoindirubin-3'-monooxime; (37) 5-fluoroindirubin; (38)
5,5'-dibromoindirubin; (39) 5-nitroindirubin; (40) 5-bromoindirubin; (41) (2'Z,3'E)-6
bromoindirubin-3'-oxime (BIG); (42) 5-iodoindirubin; (43) indirubin-5-sulfonic acid-3'
monooxime; (44) 3,4-bis(1 -methylindole-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (45) 3-(1
methylindole-3-yl)-4-(1 -propylindole-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (46) 3-[1-(3
cyanopropyl)indole-3-yl]-4-(1 -methyl-indole-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (47) 3-[1-(3
aminopropyl)-indole-3-yl]-4-(1 -methylindole-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (48) 3-[1-(3
carboxypropyl)indole-3-yl]-4-(1 -methyl-indole-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (49) 3-[1-(3
carbamoyl-propyl)indole-3-yl]-4-(1 -methylindole-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (50) 3-[1-(3
aminopropyl)indole-3-yl]-4-(1 -methyl-5-propyloxyindole-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (51)
3-[1-(3-hydroxypropyl)indole-3-yl]-4-(1 -methyl-5-phenylindole-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-2,5
dione; (52) 3-[1-(3-aminopropyl)indole-3-yl]-4-(1 -methyl-5-phenylindole-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrole
2,5-dione; (53) 3-[1-(3-hydroxypropyl)indole-3-yl]-4-(1-methyl-5-methoxycarbonylindole
3-yl)-l H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (54) 3-[1-(3-hydroxypropyl)indole-3-yl]-4-(1 -methyl-5
nitroindole-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (55) 3-(1 -methylindole-3-yl)-4-[1 -(3
hydroxypropyl)-5-nitroindole-3-yl]-1 H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (56) 3-(2-chlorophenyl)-4-(1
methylindole-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (57) 3-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-(1 -methylindole
3-yl)-l H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (58) 3-(2-chlorophenyl)-4-[1-(3-hydroxypropyl)indole-3-yl]
1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione; (59) 4-[1-(3-aminopropyl)indole-3-yl]-3-(2-chlorophenyl)-1 H
pyrrole-2,5-dione; (60) 7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (61) 2
bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (62) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (63) 9-chloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (64) 11 -chloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin
6(5H)-one; (65) 10-bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (66) 8
bromo-6, 11 -dihydro-thieno[3',2':2,3]azepino-[4,5-b]indol-5(4H)-one; (67) 9-bromo-7,12
dihydro-4-methoxy-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (68) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-4
hydroxy-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (69) 7,12-dihydro-4-methoxy-indolo[3,2
                                              42

d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (70) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (71) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-2,3-di-hydroxy-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (72) 7,12-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (73) 7,1 2-dihydro-9-trifluormethyl-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (74) 7,1 2-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-9-trifluoromethyl
indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6-(5H)-one; (75) 2-bromo-7,1 2-dihydro-9-trifluoromethyl
indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (76) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-thione; (77) 9-bromo-5,12-bis-(t-butyloxycarbonyl)-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (78) 9-bromo-1 2-(t-butyloxycarbonyl)-7,12
dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6-(5H)-one; (79) 9-bromo-5,7-bis-(t
butyloxycarbonyl)-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (80) 9-bromo
5,7,12-tri-(t-butyloxycarbonyl)-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (81)
9-bromo-7,1 2-dihydro-5-methyloxycarbonylmethyl-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)
one; (82) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-12-methyloxycarbonylmethyl-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (83) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-1 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6-(5H)-one; (84) 2,9-dibromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin
6(5H)-one; (85) 8,1 0-dichloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo-[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (86)
9-cyano-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (87) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro
5-methyl-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (88) 5-benzyl-9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-5
methyl-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (89) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-1 2-methyl
indolo-[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (90) 9-bromo-1 2-ethyl-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (91) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-1 2-(2-propenyl)-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (92) 7,1 2-dihydro-9-methyl-indolo[3,2-d][1]-benzazepin
6(5H)-one; (93) 7,12-dihydro-9-methoxy-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (94) 9
fluoro-7,12-dihydro-1 2-(2-propenyl)-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (95) 11
bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (96) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro
2-(methyliminoamine)-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (97) 9-bromo-7,12
dihydro-2-(carboxylic acid)-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (98) 9-bromo-7,12
dihydro-1 0-hydroxy-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (99) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro
11 -hydroxymethyl-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (100) 7,12-dihydro-4-hydroxy
                                             43

indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (101) 7,12-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxy-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (102) 2,3-dimethoxy-9-nitro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (103) 9-cyano-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin
6(5H)-one; (104) 2,3-dimethoxy-9-cyano-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)
one; (105) 9-nitro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (106) 3-(6-oxo-9
trifluoromethyl-5,6,7,12-tetrahydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-2-yl)-propionitrile; (107) 2
bromo-9-nitro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (108) 3-(6-oxo-9
trifluoromethyl-5,6,7,12-tetrahydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-2-yl)acrylonitrile; (109) 2
(3-hydroxy-1 -propinyl)-9-trifluoromethyl-7,1 2-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)
one; (110) 2-iodo-9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (111) 2
(3-oxo-1 -butenyl)-9-trifluoromethyl-7,12-tetrahydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)
one; (112) 8-chloro-6,1 1-dihydro-thieno[3',2':2,3]azepino[4,5-b]indol-5(4H)-one; (113) 2
iodo-9-trifluoromethyl-7,1 2-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (114) 7,12
dihydro-pyrido[3',2':4,5]-pyrrolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (115) 11 -methyl-7,12
dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (116) 2-[2-(1-hydroxycyclohexyl)
ethinyl]-9-trifluoromethyl-7,1 2-dihydro-indolo-[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (117) 2
cyano-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (118) 2-iodo-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (119) 11 -ethyl-7,1 2-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (120) 8-methyl-6,11-dihydro-thieno[3',2':2,3]azepino[4,5
b]indol-5(4H)-one; (121) 3-(6-oxo-9-trifluoromethyl-5,6,7,1 2-tetrahydro-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-2-yl)acrylic acid methyl ester; (122) 9-cyano-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (123) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (124) 2-bromo-7,1 2-dihydro-9-trifluoromethyl-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (125) 7,1 2-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-9-trifluoromethyl
indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (126) 2,9-dibromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]
benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (127) 7,12-dihydro-9-trifluoromethyl-indolo-[3,2-d][1]benzazepin
6(5H)-one; (128) 9-chloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (129) 8
bromo-6,1 1-dihydro-thieno[3',2':2,3]azepino[4,5-b]indole-5(4H)-one; (130) 7,12-dihydro
9-methoxy-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (131) 10-bromo-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (132) 11 -bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]
                                              44

benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (133) 11 -chloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d]-[1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)
one; (134) 9-fluoro-7,12-dihydro-indolo-[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (135) 9-methyl
7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (136) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-thione; (137) 8,1 0-dichloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (138) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-1 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (139) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxy-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (140) 2-bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin
6(5H)-one; (141) 7,12-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one;
(142) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-12-methyl-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (143) 9
bromo-7,1 2-dihydro-5-methyloxycarbonylmethyl-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one;
(144) 7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (145) 9-cyano-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (146) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (147) 2-bromo-7,1 2-dihydro-9-trifluoromethyl
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (148) 7,12-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-9
trifluoromethyl-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (149) 2,9-dibromo-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (150) 7,1 2-dihydro-9-trifluoromethyl-indolo-[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (151) 9-chloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin
6(5H)-one; (152) 8-bromo-6,1 1-dihydro-thieno[3',2':2,3]azepino[4,5-b]indol-5(4H)-one;
(153) 7,12-dihydro-9-methoxy-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (154) 9-bromo
7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (155) 9-chloro-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (156) 11 -chloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (157) 10-bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin
6(5H)-one; (158) 8-bromo-6,1 1-dihydro-thieno[3',2':2,3]azepino-[4,5-b]indol-5(4H)-one;
(159) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-4-methoxy-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (160) 9
bromo-7,12-dihydro-4-hydroxy-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (161) 7,12
dihydro-4-methoxy-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (162) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro
2,3-dimethoxy-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (163) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-2,3
di-hydroxy-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (164) 7,12-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (165) 7,1 2-dihydro-9-trifluormethyl-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (166) 7,1 2-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-9-trifluoromethyl
                                            45

indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6-(5H)-one; (167) 2-bromo-7,1 2-dihydro-9-trifluoromethyl
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (168) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-thione; (169) 9-bromo-5,12-bis-(t-butyloxycarbonyl)-7,12
dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (170) 9-bromo-12-(t-butyloxycarbonyl)
7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6-(5H)-one: (171) 9-bromo-5,7-bis-(t
butyloxycarbonyl)-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (172) 9-bromo
5,7,12-tri-(t-butyloxycarbonyl)-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (173)
9-bromo-7,1 2-dihydro-5-methyloxycarbonylmethyl-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)
one; (174) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-1 2-methyloxycarbonylmethyl-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (175) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-1 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6-(5H)-one: (176) 2,9-dibromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (177) 8,1 0-dichloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo-[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one: (178) 9-cyano-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin
6(5H)-one: (179) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-5-methyl-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one;
(180) 5-benzyl-9-bromo-7,1 2-dihydro-5-methyl-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one;
(181) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-1 2-methyl-indolo-[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (182) 9
bromo-12-ethyl-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (183) 9-bromo
7,12-dihydro-1 2-(2-propenyl)-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (184) 7,12-dihydro
9-methyl-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (185) 7,12-dihydro-9-methoxy
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (186) 9-fluoro-7,12-dihydro-1 2-(2-propenyl)
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (187) 11 -bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (188) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-2-(methyliminoamine)
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (189) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-2-(carboxylic acid)
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (190) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-1 0-hydroxy
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one: (191) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-1 1-hydroxymethyl
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one: (192) 7,12-dihydro-4-hydroxy-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (193) 7,12-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxy-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (194) 2,3-dimethoxy-9-nitro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (195) 9-cyano-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin
6(5H)-one; (196) 2,3-dimethoxy-9-cyano-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)
                                             46

one; (197) 9-nitro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (198) 3-(6-oxo-9
trifluoromethyl-5,6,7,12-tetrahydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-2-yl)-propionitrile; (199) 2
bromo-9-nitro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (200) 3-(6-oxo-9
trifluoromethyl-5,6,7,12-tetrahydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-2-yl)acrylonitrile; (201) 2
(3-hydroxy-1 -propinyl)-9-trifluoromethyl-7,1 2-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)
one; (202) 2-iodo-9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (203) 2
(3-oxo-1 -butenyl)-9-trifluoromethyl-7,1 2-tetrahydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)
one; (204) 8-chloro-6, 11 -dihydro-thieno[3',2':2,3]azepino[4,5-b]indol-5(4H)-one; (205) 2
iodo-9-trifluoromethyl-7,1 2-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (206) 7,12
dihydro-pyrido[3',2':4,5]-pyrrolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (207) 11 -methyl-7,12
dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (208) 2-[2-(1 -hydroxycyclohexyl)
ethinyl]-9-trifluoromethyl-7,12-dihydro-indolo-[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (209) 2
cyano-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (210) 2-iodo-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (211) 11 -ethyl-7,1 2-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (212) 8-methyl-6,1 1-dihydro-thieno[3',2':2,3]azepino[4,5
b]indol-5(4H)-one; (213) 3-(6-oxo-9-trifluoromethyl-5,6,7,1 2-tetrahydro-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-2-yl)acrylic acid methyl ester; (214) 9-cyano-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (215) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (216) 2-bromo-7,1 2-dihydro-9-trifluoromethyl-indolo[3,2
d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (217) 7,1 2-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-9-trifluoromethyl
indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (218) 2,9-dibromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]
benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (219) 7,12-dihydro-9-trifluoromethyl-indolo-[3,2-d][1]benzazepin
6(5H)-one; (220) 9-chloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (221) 8
bromo-6,1 1-dihydro-thieno[3',2':2,3]azepino[4,5-b]indole-5(4H)-one: (222) 7,12-dihydro
9-methoxy-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (223) 10-bromo-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (224) 11 -bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]
benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (225) 11 -chloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d]-[1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)
one: (226) 9-fluoro-7,12-dihydro-indolo-[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (227) 9-methyl
7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (228) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-thione; (229) 8,1 0-dichloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2
                                              47

d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one: (230) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-1 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-indolo[3,2
d][1]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (231) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxy-indolo[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (232) 2-bromo-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin
6(5H)-one; (233) 7,12-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one;
(234) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-1 2-methyl-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (235) 9
bromo-7,1 2-dihydro-5-methyloxycarbonylmethyl-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one;
(236) 7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (237) 9-cyano-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (238) 9-bromo-7,12-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy
indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (239) 2-bromo-7,1 2-dihydro-9-trifluoromethyl
indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (240) 7,12-dihydro-2,3-dimethoxy-9
trifluoromethyl-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (241) 2,9-dibromo-7,12-dihydro
indolo[3,2-d][1]-benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (242) 7,1 2-dihydro-9-trifluormethyl-indolo-[3,2
d][1 ]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (243) 9-chloro-7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1 ]benzazepin
6(5H)-one: (244) 8-bromo-6,1 1-dihydro-thieno[3',2':2,3]azepino[4,5-b]indol-5(4H)-one;
(245) 7,12-dihydro-9-methoxy-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one; (246) 9-bromo
7,12-dihydro-indolo[3,2-d][1]benzazepin-6(5H)-one (247) 6-bromoindirubin; (248) 6,6'
dibromoindirubin-3-oxime; (249) 6-bromoindirubin-3'-methoxime; (250) 6-bromo-5
methyl-indirubin; (251) 6-bromo-5-aminoindirubin; (252) 6-bromo-5-methyl-indirubin-3'
oxime; (253) 6-bromo-indirubin-3'-acetoxime; (254) 5-amino-indirubin; (255) 5-amino
indirubin-3'-oxime; (256) 1-methylindirubin; (257) N-1-methylisoindigo; (258) indirubin-5
sulfone-(2-hydroxyethyl)amide; (259) 5-ethylindirubin; (260) 5-isopropylindirubin; (261)
5-n-propylindirubin; (262) 5-carboxymethylindirubin; (263) 5-[2-(piperazin-1-yl)-ethan-2
on-1 -yl]indirubin; (264) 5-[2-(morpholin-1 -yl)-ethan-2-on-1 -yl]indirubin; (265) N-(2
aminoethyl)-2-[3-(3'-oxo-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene)-(2H,3H)indol-2-one-5-yl]acetamide;
(266) N-methyl-2-[3-(3'-oxo-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene)-(2H,3H)indol-2-one-5
yl]acetamide; (267) N,N-dimethyl-2-[3-(3'-oxo-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene)-(2H,3H)indol-2
one-5-yl]acetamide; (268) 2-{2-[3'-oxo-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene)-(2H,3H)indol-2-one-5
yl]-acetylamino}-acetic acid; (269) methyl-2-{2-[3'-oxo-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene)
(2H,3H)indol-2-one-5-yl]-acetylamino}-acetate; (270) [3'-oxo-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene)
                                               48

(2H,3H)indol-2-one-5-yl]-methylphosphonic acid; (271) diethyl-[3'-oxo-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'
ylidene)-(2H,3H)indol-2-one-5-yl]-methylphosphonate; (272) 5-acetylaminoindirubin;
(273) [3'-oxo-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene)-(2H,3H)indol-2-one-5-yl]-succinamic acid; (274)
2-amino-N-[3'-oxo-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene)-(2H,3H)indol-2-one-5-yl]-acetamide; (275)
2-amino-N-[3'-oxo-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene)-(2H,3H)indol-2-one-5-yl]-propionamide;
(276) 5-(2-aminoethyl)-aminoindirubin; (277) 5-(2-hydroxyethyl)-aminoindirubin; (278)
indirubin-5-sulfonic acid-(piperazin-1-yl-amide); (279) indirubin-5-sulfonic acid
(morpholin-1-yl-amide); (280) methyl-2-{[3'-oxo-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene)-(2H,3H)indol
2-one-5-yl]-sulfonamidyl}-acetate; (281) 5-methylindirubin-3'-monooxime; (282) 5
ethylindirubin-3'-monooxime; (283) 5-isopropylindirubin-3'-monooxime; (284) 5
aminoindirubin-3'-monooxime; (285) 5-acetylaminoindirubin-3'-monooxime; (286) 2
amino-N-[3-(3'-hydroxyimino)(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene)-(2H,3H)indol-2-one-5-yl]
acetamide; (287) 3-[3'-(iminooxy-O-(2-hydroxyethyl)-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene]
(2H,3H)indol-2-one; (288) 3-[3'-(iminooxy-O-(3-hydroxypropyl)-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'
ylidene]-(2H,3H)indol-2-one; (289) 3-[3'-(iminooxy-O-(2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)ethyl)
(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene]-(2H,3H)indol-2-one; (290) 3-[3'-(iminooxy-O-(2-(2-hydroxy-2
methyl)propyl)-(2'H,3'H)indol-2'-ylidene]-(2H,3H)indol-2-one; (291) 2-{O-[2'-(2-oxo
(2H,3H)indol-3-ylidene)-2'H,3'H-indol-3'-ylidene]aminoxy}acetic acid sodium salt; (292)
3-{O-[2'-(2-oxo-(2H,3H)indol-3-ylidene)-2'H,3'H-indol-3'-ylidene]aminoxy}propionic acid
sodium salt; (293) 4-{O-[2'-(2-oxo-(2H,3H)indol-3-ylidene)-2'H,3'H-indol-3'
ylidene]aminoxy}butyric acid sodium salt; (294) 5-{O-[2'-(2-oxo-(2H,3H)indol-3-ylidene)
2'H,3'H-indol-3'-ylidene]aminoxy}pentanoic acid sodium salt; (295) 3-[3'-iminooxy-O
carbethoxy)-(2'H,3'H)-indol-2'-ylidene]-(2H,3H)indol-2-one; (296) ethyl-2-{O-2'-(2-oxo
(2H,3H)indol-3-ylidene-(2'H,3'H)-indol-3'-ylidene]-aminooxy}-acetate; (297) 3-[3'
iminooxy-O-(N,N)-dimethylcarbamoyl)]-(2'H,3'H)-indol-2'-ylidene]-(2H,3H)indol-2-one);
(298) 3'-oximido-7-azaindirubin; (299) 7-azaindirubin-3'-oxime ether; (300) 1-methyl-5
azaindirubin; (301) 1-benzyl-5'-chloro-5-azaindirubin; (302) 1-butyl-5-azaindirubin-3'
oxime; (303) 1-butyl-5-azaindirubin-3'-oxime 0-methyl ether; (304) 1-isopropyl-5
azaisoindigo; (305) 1-methyl-7-azaindirubin; (306) 1-benzyl-5'-bromo-7-azaindirubin;
                                             49

(307) 1-butyl-7-azaindirubin-3'-oxime; (308) 1-butyl-7-azaindirubin-3'-oxime 0-methyl
ether; (309) 1-isopropyl-7-azaisoindigo; (310) 2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol
(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxylic acid; (311) 2-methyl-7-[1,2
dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxylic
acid; (312) 2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-chloro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7
tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxylic acid; (313) 2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-methyl-2-oxo
3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxylic acid; (314) ethyl 2
methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H
indole-3-carboxylate; (315) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2
oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (316) N-(2
(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-chloro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (317) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl
7-[1,2-dihydro-5-methyl-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3
carboxamide; (318) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol
(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (319) N-(2
(dimethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indo-l-(Z)-3-ylidene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (320) N-(3-(dimethylamino)propyl)-2
methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-chloro-2-oxo-3H-ind-ol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H
indole-3-carboxamide; (321) N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol
(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (322) N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-2
methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H
indole-3-carboxamide; (323) 2-methyl-3-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)-7-[1,2-dihydro-5
fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole; (324) 2-methyl-3
(morpholine-4-carbonyl)-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-chloro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7
tetrahydro-1 H-indole; (325) 2-methyl-3-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo
3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole; (326) 2-methyl-3-(4
methylpiperazine-1 -carbonyl)-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7
tetrahydro-1 H-indole; (327) 2-methyl-3-(4-methylpiperazine-1 -carbonyl)-7-[1,2-dihydro
5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole; (328) N,N,2
trimethyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3
                                             50

carboxamide; (329) N-(2-morpholinoethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-methyl-2-oxo-3H
indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (330) N-(2
morpholinoethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-methyl-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (331) N-(2-morpholinoethyl)-2-methyl-7
[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide;
(332) N-(2-morpholinoethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-chloro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3
ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (333) N-(2-morpholinoethyl)-2
methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H
indole-3-carboxamide; (334) N-(3-morpholinopropyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2
oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (335) N-(3
morpholinopropyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-bromo-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (336) N-(2-morpholinoethyl)-2-methyl-7
[1,2-dihydro-7-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3
carboxamide; (337) N-(2-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol
(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (338) N-(2-(piperidin-1
yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1    H
indole-3-carboxamide; (339) N-(2-(piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro
2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (340) N-(2
(pyrrolidin-1 -yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (341) N-(3-(pyrrolidin-1 -yl)propyl)-2
methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H
indole-3-carboxamide; (342) N-(3-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2
dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3
carboxamide; (343) N-(3-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-bromo-2-oxo
3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (344) N-(2
(piperidin-1 -yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-6-chloro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-yl idene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (345) N-(3-(pyrrolidin-1 -yl)propyl)-2
methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-4-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H
indole-3-carboxamide; (346) N-(3-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-7
fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (347)
                                               51

N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5,7-dimethyl-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3
ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (348) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2
methyl-7-[N-isopropyl-1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-5-sulfonamide-(Z)-3-yl idene]-4,5,6,7
tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (349) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2
dihydro-5-bromo-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3
carboxamide; (350) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-nitro-2-oxo-3H
indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (351) N-(3
(dimethylamino)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (352) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl
7-[1,2-dihydro-5-methoxy carbonyl-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H
indole-3-carboxamide; (353) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-7-fluoro
2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (354) N-(2
(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[N-(4-fluorophenyl)-1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-5
sulfonamide-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide); (355) N-(2
(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[5-(piperidin-1 -ylsulfonyl)-1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-5
sulfonamide-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (356) N-(3
(diethylamino)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indo- -(Z)-3-ylidene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (357) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl
7-[1,2-dihydro-5-carboxyl-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3
carboxamide; (358) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-carboxyl-2-oxo
3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (359) N-(2
(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-6-chloro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (360) N-(3-(diethylamino)propyl)-2-methyl
7-[1,2-dihydro-6-chloro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3
carboxamide; (361) N-(3-(diethylamino)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-bromo-2-oxo
3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (362) N-(2
(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-4-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (363) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl
7-[5-(pyrrolidine-1 -carbonyl)-1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7
tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (364) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[N-(4
                                             52

fluorophenyl)-5-carboxamide-1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7
tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (365) N-(3-(diethylamino)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2
dihydro-7-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3
carboxamide; (366) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-methoxy-2-oxo
3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (367) N-(2
(diethylamino)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-trifluoromethoxy-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3
ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (368) N-(2-(diethylamino)ethyl)-2
methyl-7-[N-methyl-1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-5-sulfonamide-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7
tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (369) N-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2
dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3
carboxamide; (370) N-(2-(dimethylamino)ethyl)-N,2-dimethyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2
oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (371) N-(2
(dimethylamino)ethyl)-N,2-dimethyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-6-chloro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3
ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (372) N-benzyl-N,2-dimethyl-7
[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3
carboxamide; (373) 2-methyl-3-[(S)-2-(pyrrolidin-1-ylmethyl)pyrrolidin-1-carbonyl)]-7
[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole; (374)
2-methyl-3-[4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-piperazin-1 -carbonyl]-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H
indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole; (375) 2-methyl-3-(1,4'-bipiperidin-1'
carbonyl)-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3-H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H
indole; (376) N-(3-(diethylamino)-2-hydroxypropyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H
indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (377) N-(3
(diethylamino)-2-hydroxypropyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (378) N-(3-(diethylamino)-2
hydroxypropyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-chloro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-yl idene]-4,5,6,7
tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (379) N-(3-(dimethylamino)-2-hydroxypropyl)-2
methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H
indole-3-carboxamide; (380) N-(2-hydroxy-3-morpholinopropyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro
2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (381) N-(2
hydroxy-3-morpholinopropyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3-H-indol-(Z)-3
                                             53

ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (382) N-(2-hydroxy-3
morpholinopropyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-chloro-2-oxo-3-H-indol-(Z)-3-yI idene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (383) N-(2-hydroxy-3-(pyrrolidin-1
yl)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H
indole-3-carboxamide; (384) N-(2-hydroxy-3-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2
dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3
carboxamide; (385) N-(2-hydroxy-3-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5
chloro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (386)
N-(2-hydroxy-3-(piperidin-1 -yl)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3
ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (387) N-(2-hydroxy-3-(piperidin-1
yl)propyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7
tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (388) N-(2-hydroxy-3-(piperidin-1 -yl)propyl)-2
methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-chloro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-yl idene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H
indole-3-carboxamide; (389) N-[2-hydroxy-3-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)propyl]-2-methyl-7
[1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide;
(390) N-[2-hydroxy-3-(4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl)propyl]-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2
oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (391) N-[2
hydroxy-3-(4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl)propyl]-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5 chloro-2-oxo-3H
indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (392) N-[3
(cyclohexyl(methyl)amino)-2-hydroxypropyl]-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-methyl-2-oxo-3H
indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (393) N-(3
(diethylamino)-2-hydroxypropyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-bromo-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3
ylidene]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (394) N-(2-hydroxy-3
morpholinopropyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-6-chloro-2-oxo-3-H-indol-(Z)-3-yl idene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (395) N-[3-(cyclohexyl(methyl)amino)-2
hydroxypropyl]-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-fluoro-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]-4,5,6,7
tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (396) 5-bromoindirubin-3'-oxime; (397) 7
bromoindirubin-3'-oxime; (398) 7-chloroindirubin-3'-oxime; (399) 7-iodoindirubin-3'
oxime; (400) 7-fluoroindirubin-3'-oxime; (401) 1-methyl-7-bromoindirubin-3'-oxime;
(402) (2'Z)-7-fluoroindirubin; (403) (2'Z)-7-chloroindirubin; (404) (2'Z)-7-bromoindirubin;
                                              54

(405) (2'Z)-7-iodoindirubin; (406) (2'Z)-7-fluoro-1-methylindirubin; (407) (2'Z)-7-chloro-1
methylindirubin; (408) (2'Z)-7-bromo-1-methylindirubin; (409) (2'Z)-7-iodo-1
methylindirubin; (410) (2'Z,3'E)-7-fluoroindirubin-3'-oxime; (411) (2'Z,3'E)-7
chloroindirubin-3'-oxime; (412) (2'Z,3'E)-7-bromoindirubin-3'-oxime; (413) (2'Z,3'E)-7
iodoindirubin-3'-oxime; (414) (2'Z,3'E)-7-fluoro-1-methylindirubin-3'-oxime; (415)
(2'Z,3'E)-7-chloro-1-methylindirubin-3'-oxime; (416) (2'Z,3'E)-7-bromo-1
methylindirubin-3'-oxime; (417) (2'Z,3'E)-7-iodo-1-methylindirubin-3'-oxime; (418)
(2'Z,3'E)-7-fluoroindirubin-3'-acetoxime; (419) (2'Z,3'E)-7-chloroindirubin-3'-acetoxime;
(420) (2'Z,3'E)-7-bromoindirubin-3'-acetoxime; (421) (2'Z,3'E)-7-iodoindirubin-3'
acetoxime; (422) (2'Z,3'E)-7-fluoro-1-methylindirubin-3'-acetoxime; (423) (2'Z,3'E)-7
chloro-1-methylindirubin-3'-acetoxime; (424) (2'Z,3'E)-7-bromo-1-methylindirubin-3'
acetoxime; (425) (2'Z,3'E)-7-iodo-1-methylindirubin-3'-acetoxime; (426) (2'Z,3'E)-7
fluoroindirubin-3'-methoxime; (427) (2'Z,3'E)-7-chloroindirubin-3'-methoxime; (428)
(2'Z,3'E)-7-bromoindirubin-3'-methoxime: (429) (2'Z,3'E)-7-iodoindirubin-3'-methoxime;
(430) (2'Z,3'E)-7-fluoro-1-methylindirubin-3'-methoxime; (431) (2'Z,3'E)-7-chloro-1
methylindirubin-3'-methoxime; (432) (2'Z,3'E)-7-bromo-1-methylindirubin-3'-methoxime,
(2'Z,3'E)-7-iodo-1-methylindirubin-3'-methoxime; (433) (2'Z,3'E)-7-bromoindirubin-3'-[O
(2-bromoethyl)-oxime]; (434) (2'Z,3'E)-1-methyl-7-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-bromoethyl)
oxime]; (435) (2'Z,3'E)-7-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(N,N-diethylcarbamyl)-oxime]; (436)
2'Z,3'E)-1-methyl-7-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(N,N-diethylcarbamyl)-oxime]; (437) (2'Z,3'E)
7-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-pyrrolidin-1-yl-ethyl)-oxime]; (438) (2'Z,3'E)-1-methyl-7
bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-pyrrolidin-1-yl-ethyl)-oxime], (439) (2'Z,3'E)-7-bromoindirubin
3'-[O-(2-morpholin-1-yl-ethyl)-oxime], (440) (2'Z,3'E)-1-methyl-7-bromoindirubin-3'-[O
(2-morpholin-1-yl-ethyl)-oxime]; (441) (2'Z,3'E)-7-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-imidazol-1-yl
ethyl)-oxime]; (442) (2'Z,3'E)-1-methyl-7-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-imidazol-1-yl-ethyl)
oxime]; (443) (2'Z,3'E)-7-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-piperazin-1-yl-ethyl)-oxime]; (444)
(2'Z,3'E)-7-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)-oxime]; (445) (2'Z,3'E)-1
methyl-7-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)-oxime]; (446) (2'Z,3'E)-7
                                              55

bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-diethylaminoethyl)-oxime] (447) (2'Z,3'E)-1-methyl-7
bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-diethylaminoethyl)-oxime]; (448) N-(2-hydroxy-3
morpholinopropyl)-2-methyl-7-[1,2-dihydro-5-bromo-2-oxo-3H-indol-(Z)-3-ylidene]
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1 H-indole-3-carboxamide; (449) 6-bromoindirubin-3'-oxime; (450)
(2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-bromoethyl)-oxime]; (451) (2'Z,3'E)-6
bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-hydroxyethyl)-oxime]; (452) (2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin-3'-[O
(2,3-dihydroxypropyl)-oxime]; (453) (2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin-3-[O-(N,N
diethylcarbamyl)-oxime]; (454) (2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)
oxime]; (455) (2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin-3-[O-(2-diethylaminoethyl)-oxime]; (456)
(2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-pyrrolidin-1-ylethyl)-oxime]; (457) (2'Z,3'E)-6
bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-morpholin-1-ylethyl)-oxime]; (458) (2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin
3'-[O-(2-N,N-(2-hydroxyethyl)aminoethyl)-oxime]; (459) (2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin-3'
(O-{2-N,N-dimethyl, N-(2,3-dihydroxypropyl)amino]ethyl}oxime; (460) (2'Z,3'E)-6
bromoindirubin-3'-[O-(2-piperazin-1-ylethyl)-oxime]; (461) (2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin-3'
{O-[2-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)ethyl]oxime; (462) (2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin-3'-O-{2-[4
(2-hydroxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl]ethyl}oxime; (463) (2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin-3'-O-{2-[4
(2-methoxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl]ethyl}oxime; (464) (2'Z,3'E)-6-bromoindirubin-3'-O-[O-2
{4-[2-(2-hydroxyethoxy)-ethyl]piperazin-1 -yl}ethyl)oxime; (465) isoindigo; (466) 5
nitroindirubin-3'-oxime; (467) 5'-bromo-5-nitroindirubin-3'-oxime; (468) 5'-hydroxy-5
nitroindirubin-3'-oxime; (469) 5'-hydroxy-5-chloroindirubin-3'-oxime; (470) 5'-hydroxy-5
fluoroindirubin-3'-oxime; (471) 5'-chloro-5-nitroindirubin-3'-oxime; (472) 5'-methyl-5
nitroindirubin-3'-oxime; (473) indirubin-5-sulfonic acid (2-hydroxyethyl)-amide; (474) (3
[3-(3,4-dihydroxybutoxyamino)-1 H-indol-2-yl]indol-2-one); and the salts, solvates,
analogues, congeners, bioisosteres, hydrolysis products, metabolites, precursors, and
prodrugs thereof (referred to herein as "Alternatives (1)-(474)").
        [0071] As described above, and as detailed more generally below, derivatives
and analogs of meisoindigo can be optionally substituted with one or more groups that
do not substantially affect the pharmacological activity of the derivative or analog.
These groups are generally known in the art. Definitions for a number of common
                                             56

groups that can be used as optional substituents are provided below; however, the
omission of any group from these definitions cannot be taken to mean that such a group
cannot be used as an optional substituent as long as the chemical and pharmacological
requirements for an optional substituent are satisfied.
        [0072] As used herein, the term "alkyl" refers to an unbranched, branched, or
cyclic saturated hydrocarbyl residue, or a combination thereof, of from 1 to 12 carbon
atoms that can be optionally substituted; the alkyl residues contain only C and H when
unsubstituted. Typically, the unbranched or branched saturated hydrocarbyl residue is
from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, which is referred to herein as "lower alkyl." When the alkyl
residue is cyclic and includes a ring, it is understood that the hydrocarbyl residue
includes at least three carbon atoms, which is the minimum number to form a ring. As
used herein, the term "alkenyl" refers to an unbranched, branched or cyclic hydrocarbyl
residue having one or more carbon-carbon double bonds. As used herein, the term
"alkynyl" refers to an unbranched, branched, or cyclic hydrocarbyl residue having one or
more carbon-carbon triple bonds; the residue can also include one or more double
bonds. With respect to the use of "alkenyl" or "alkynyl," the presence of multiple double
bonds cannot produce an aromatic ring. As used herein, the terms "hydroxyalkyl,"
"hydroxyalkenyl," and "hydroxyalkynyl," respectively, refer to an alkyl, alkenyl, or alkynyl
group including one or more hydroxyl groups as substituents; as detailed below, further
substituents can be optionally included. As used herein, the term "aryl" refers to a
monocyclic or fused bicyclic moiety having the well-known characteristics of aromaticity;
examples include phenyl and naphthyl, which can be optionally substituted. As used
herein, the term "hydroxyaryl" refers to an aryl group including one or more hydroxyl
groups as substituents; as further detailed below, further substituents can be optionally
included. As used herein, the term "heteroaryl" refers to monocyclic or fused bicylic ring
systems that have the characteristics of aromaticity and include one or more
heteroatoms selected from 0, S, and N. The inclusion of a heteroatom permits
aromaticity in 5-membered rings as well as in 6-membered rings. Typical
heteroaromatic systems include monocyclic C5-C6 heteroaromatic groups such as
pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazinyl, thienyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, thiazolyl, oxazolyl,
                                                57

triazolyl, triazinyl, tetrazolyl, tetrazinyl, and imidazolyl, as well as the fused bicyclic
moieties formed by fusing one of these monocyclic heteroaromatic groups with a phenyl
ring or with any of the heteroaromatic monocyclic groups to form a C8-C10 bicyclic group
such as indolyl, benzimidazolyl, indazolyl, benzotriazolyl, isoquinolyl, quinolyl,
benzothiazolyl, benzofuranyl, pyrazolylpyridyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl, cinnolinyl, and
other ring systems known in the art. Any monocyclic or fused ring bicyclic system that
has the characteristics of aromaticity in terms of delocalized electron distribution
throughout the ring system is included in this definition. This definition also includes
bicyclic groups where at least the ring that is directly attached to the remainder of the
molecule has the characteristics of aromaticity, including the delocalized electron
distribution that is characteristic of aromaticity. Typically the ring systems contain 5 to
12 ring member atoms and up to four heteroatoms, wherein the heteroatoms are
selected from the group consisting of N, 0, and S. Frequently, the monocyclic
heteroaryls contain 5 to 6 ring members and up to three heteroatoms selected from the
group consisting of N, 0, and S; frequently, the bicyclic heteroaryls contain 8 to 10 ring
members and up to four heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of N, 0, and S.
The number and placement of heteroatoms in heteroaryl ring structures is in
accordance with the well-known limitations of aromaticity and stability, where stability
requires the heteroaromatic group to be stable enough to be exposed to water at
physiological temperatures without rapid degradation. As used herein, the term
"hydroxheteroaryl" refers to a heteroaryl group including one or more hydroxyl groups
as substituents; as further detailed below, further substituents can be optionally
included. As used herein, the terms "haloaryl" and "haloheteroaryl" refer to aryl and
heteroaryl groups, respedively, substituted with at least one halo group, where "halo"
refers to a halogen selected from the group consisting of fluorine, chlorine, bromine, and
iodine, typically, the halogen is selected from the group consisting of chlorine, bromine,
and iodine; as detailed below, further substituents can be optionally included. As used
herein, the terms "haloalkyl," "haloalkenyl," and "haloalkynyl" refer to alkyl, alkenyl, and
alkynyl groups, respectively, substituted with at least one halo group, where "halo"
refers to a halogen selected from the group consisting of fluorine, chlorine, bromine, and
                                                  58

iodine, typically, the halogen is selected from the group consisting of chlorine, bromine,
and iodine; as detailed below, further substituents can be optionally included.
       [0073] As used herein, the term "optionally substituted" indicates that the
particular group or groups referred to as optionally substituted may have no non
hydrogen substituents, or the group or groups may have one or more non-hydrogen
substituents consistent with the chemistry and pharmacological activity of the resulting
molecule. If not otherwise specified, the total number of such substituents that may be
present is equal to the total number of hydrogen atoms present on the unsubstituted
form of the group being described; fewer than the maximum number of such
substituents may be present. Where an optional substituent is attached via a double
bond, such as a carbonyl oxygen (C=O), the group takes up two available valences on
the carbon atom to which the optional substituent is attached, so the total number of
substituents that may be included is reduced according to the number of available
valiences. As used herein, the term "substituted," whether used as part of "optionally
substituted" or otherwise, when used to modify a specific group, moiety, or radical,
means that one or more hydrogen atoms are, each, independently of each other,
replaced with the same or different substituent or substituents.
       [0074] Substituent groups useful for substituting saturated carbon atoms in the
specified group, moiety, or radical include, but are not limited to, -Za, =O, -OZb,
SZb, =S-, -NZcZc,       =NZb, =N-OZb, trihalomethyl, -CF         3, -CN,  -OCN,    -SCN,    -NO,
-NO   2, =N2 , -N  3 , -S(O)   2Zb, -S(O)    2 NZb, -S(02)0-,   -S(O   2)OZb, -OS(O   2 )OZb,
OS(O2)O-, -OS(O        2)OZb,  -P(O)(-)     2,  -P(O)(OZb)(O-),     -P(O)(OZ)(OZb),    -C(O)Zb,
 -C(S)Zb, -C(NZ)Zb,         -C(O)O-,      -C(O)OZb,     -C(S)OZb, -C(O)NZcZc,
C(NZb)NZcZc, -OC(O)Zb,           -OC(S)Zb, -OC(O)O-,          -OC(O)OZb,     -OC(S)OZb,
NZbC(O)Zb, -NZbC(S)Zb,          -NZbC(O)O-,      -NZbC(O)OZb,       -NZbC(S)OZb,
NZbC(O)NZZc, -NZC(NZb)Zb,              -NZC(NZ)NZcZc,          wherein Za is selected from the
group consisting of alkyl, cycloalkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloheteroalkyl, aryl, arylalkyl,
heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl; each Zb is independently hydrogen or Za; and each Zc is
independently Zb or, alternatively, the two Zc's may be taken together with the nitrogen
atom to which they are bonded to form a 4-, 5-, 6-, or 7-membered cycloheteroalkyl ring
                                                    59

structure which may optionally include from 1 to 4 of the same or different heteroatoms
selected from the group consisting of N, 0, and S. As specific examples, -NZcZc                       is
meant to include -NH          2, -NH-alkyl,     -N-pyrrolidinyl,    and -N-morpholinyl,        but is not
limited to those specific alternatives and includes other alternatives known in the art.
Similarly, as another specific example, a substituted alkyl is meant to include
alkylene-O-alkyl, -alkylene-heteroaryl,            -alkylene-cycloheteroaryl,       -alkylene
C(O)OZb', -alkylene-C(O)NZbZb,               and -CH     2-CH   2-C(O)-CH    3, but  is not limited to
those specific alternatives and includes other alternatives known in the art. The one or
more substituent groups, together with the atoms to which they are bonded, may form a
cyclic ring, including, but not limited to, cycloalkyl and cycloheteroalkyl.
        [0075] Similarly, substituent groups useful for substituting unsaturated carbon
atoms in the specified group, moiety, or radical include, but are not limited to, -Za
halo, -O-,     -OZb,     -SZb, -S-,       -NZcZc,    trihalomethyl, -CF    3, -CN,     -OCN,     -SCN,
-NO,    -NO     2, -N  3 , -S(O)    2Zb,   -S(O2)O-,     -S(O   2)OZb,  -OS(O   2)OZb,   -OS(O2)O,
P(O)(O-)2,    -P(O)(OZb)(O-),         -P(O)(OZb)(OZb'         -C(O)Zb,    -C(S)Zb, -C(NZb)Zb,
C(O)O-,    -C(O)OZb',         C(S)OZb',     -C(O)NZcZc,      -C(NZ)NZcZc,       -OC(O)Zb,       -OC(S)Zb,
-OC(O)O-,        -OC(O)OZb',          OC(S)OZb', -NZbC(O)OZb,           -NZbC(S)OZb,
NZbC(O)NZZc, -NZC(NZb)Zb,                   and -NZC(NZb)NZcZc,          wherein Za,   Zb, and Zc are as
defined above.
        [0076] Similarly, substituent groups useful for substituting nitrogen atoms in
heteroalkyl and cycloheteroalkyl groups include, but are not limited to, -Za, halo, -O-,
  -OZb,   -SZb, -S-,      -NZcZc,      trihalomethyl, -CF      3, -CN,   -OCN,    -SCN,      -NO,
NO2, -S(O)     2Zb,  -S(O2)O-,       -S(O     2)OZb, -OS(O     2)OZb,  -OS(O2)O-,      -P(O)(O-)   2,
P(O)(OZb)(O-), -P(O)(OZ)(OZb),                 -C(O)Zb,     -C(S)Zb, -C(NZb)Zb,        -C(O)OZb,
C(S)OZb', -C(O)NZcZc,           -C(NZ)NZcZc,          -OC(O)Zb,      -OC(S)Zb,    -OC(O)OZb',
OC(S)OZb', -NZbC(O)Zb,            -NZbC(S)Zb,       -NZbC(O)OZb,        -NZbC(S)OZb,
NZbC(O)NZZc, -NZC(NZb)Zb,                   and -NZC(NZb)NZcZc,          wherein Za,   Zb, and Zc are as
defined above.
        [0077] The compounds described herein may contain one or more chiral centers
and/or double bonds and therefore, may exist as stereoisomers, such as double-bond
                                                        60

isomers (i.e., geometric isomers such as E and Z), enantiomers or diastereomers. The
invention includes each of the isolated stereoisomeric forms (such as the
enantiomerically pure isomers, the E and Z isomers, and other stereoisomeric forms) as
well as mixtures of stereoisomers in varying degrees of chiral purity or percetange of E
and Z, including racemic mixtures, mixtures of diastereomers, and mixtures of E and Z
isomers. Accordingly, the chemical structures depicted herein encompass all possible
enantiomers and stereoisomers of the illustrated compounds including the
stereoisomerically pure form (e.g., geometrically pure, enantiomerically pure or
diastereomerically pure) and enantiomeric and stereoisomeric mixtures. Enantiomeric
and stereoisomeric mixtures can be resolved into their component enantiomers or
stereoisomers using separation techniques or chiral synthesis techniques well known to
the skilled artisan. The invention includes each of the isolated stereoisomeric forms as
well as mixtures of stereoisomers in varying degrees of chiral purity, including racemic
mixtures. It also encompasses the various diastereomers. Other structures may
appear to depict a specific isomer, but that is merely for convenience, and is not
intended to limit the invention to the depicted olefin isomer. When the chemical name
does not specify the isomeric form of the compound, it denotes any one of the possible
isomeric forms or mixtures of those isomeric forms of the compound.
        [0078] The compounds may also exist in several tautomeric forms, and the
depiction herein of one tautomer is for convenience only, and is also understood to
encompass other tautomers of the form shown. Accordingly, the chemical structures
depicted herein encompass all possible tautomeric forms of the illustrated compounds.
The term "tautomer" as used herein refers to isomers that change into one another with
great ease so that they can exist together in equilibrium. For example, ketone and enol
are two tautomeric forms of one compound.
        [0079] As used herein, the term "solvate" means a compound formed by
solvation (the combination of solvent molecules with molecules or ions of the solute), or
an aggregate that consists of a solute ion or molecule, i.e., a compound of the invention,
with one or more solvent molecules. When water is the solvent, the corresponding
solvate is a "hydrate." Examples of hydrates include, but are not limited to,
                                              61

hemihydrate, monohydrate, dihydrate, trihydrate, hexahydrate, and other hydrated
forms. It should be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the
pharmaceutically acceptable salt and/or prodrug of the present compound may also
exist in a solvate form. The solvate is typically formed via hydration which is either part
of the preparation of the present compound or through natural absorption of moisture by
the anhydrous compound of the present invention.
        [0080] As used herein, the term "ester" means any ester of a present compound
in which any of the --COOH functions of the molecule is replaced by a --COOR function,
in which the R moiety of the ester is any carbon-containing group which forms a stable
ester moiety, including but not limited to alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl,
cycloalkylalkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl and substituted derivatives
thereof. The hydrolyzable esters of the present compounds are the compounds whose
carboxyls are present in the form of hydrolyzable ester groups. That is, these esters are
pharmaceutically acceptable and can be hydrolyzed to the corresponding carboxyl acid
in vivo.
        [0081] In addition to the substituents described above, alkyl, alkenyl and alkynyl
groups can alternatively or in addition be substituted by C1-C8 acyl, C2-C8 heteroacyl,
C6-C10   aryl, C3-C8 cycloalkyl, C3-C8 heterocyclyl, or C5-C10 heteroaryl, each of which can
be optionally substituted. Also, in addition, when two groups capable of forming a ring
having 5 to 8 ring members are present on the same or adjacent atoms, the two groups
can optionally be taken together with the atom or atoms in the substituent groups to
which they are attached to form such a ring.
        [0082] "Heteroalkyl," "heteroalkenyl," and "heteroalkynyl" and the like are
defined similarly to the corresponding hydrocarbyl (alkyl, alkenyl and alkynyl) groups,
but the 'hetero' terms refer to groups that contain 1-3 0, S or N heteroatoms or
combinations thereof within the backbone residue; thus at least one carbon atom of a
corresponding alkyl, alkenyl, or alkynyl group is replaced by one of the specified
heteroatoms to form, respectively, a heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, or heteroalkynyl group.
For reasons of chemical stability, it is also understood that, unless otherwise specified,
                                                62

such groups do not include more than two contiguous heteroatoms except where an
oxo group is present on N or S as in a nitro or sulfonyl group.
         [0083] While "alkyl" as used herein includes cycloalkyl and cycloalkylalkyl
groups, the term "cycloalkyl" may be used herein to describe a carbocyclic non-aromatic
group that is connected via a ring carbon atom, and "cycloalkylalkyl" may be used to
describe a carbocyclic non-aromatic group that is connected to the molecule through an
alkyl linker.
         [0084] Similarly, "heterocyclyl" may be used to describe a non-aromatic cyclic
group that contains at least one heteroatom (typically selected from N, 0 and S) as a
ring member and that is connected to the molecule via a ring atom, which may be C
(carbon-linked) or N (nitrogen-linked); and "heterocyclylalkyl" may be used to describe
such a group that is connected to another molecule through a linker. The heterocyclyl
can be fully saturated or partially saturated, but non-aromatic. The sizes and
substituents that are suitable for the cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heterocyclyl, and
heterocyclylalkyl groups are the same as those described above for alkyl groups. The
heterocyclyl groups typically contain 1, 2 or 3 heteroatoms, selected from N, 0 and S as
ring members; and the N or S can be substituted with the groups commonly found on
these atoms in heterocyclic systems. As used herein, these terms also include rings
that contain a double bond or two, as long as the ring that is attached is not aromatic.
The substituted cycloalkyl and heterocyclyl groups also include cycloalkyl or
heterocyclic rings fused to an aromatic ring or heteroaromatic ring, provided the point of
attachment of the group is to the cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl ring rather than to the
aromatic/heteroaromatic ring.
         [0085] As used herein, "acyl" encompasses groups comprising an alkyl, alkenyl,
alkynyl, aryl or arylalkyl radical attached at one of the two available valence positions of
a carbonyl carbon atom, and heteroacyl refers to the corresponding groups wherein at
least one carbon other than the carbonyl carbon has been replaced by a heteroatom
chosen from N, 0 and S.
         [0086] Acyl and heteroacyl groups are bonded to any group or molecule to
which they are attached through the open valence of the carbonyl carbon atom.
                                               63

Typically, they are C1-C8 acyl groups, which include formyl, acetyl, pivaloyl, and
benzoyl, and C2-C8 heteroacyl groups, which include methoxyacetyl, ethoxycarbonyl,
and 4-pyridinoyl.
        [0087] Similarly, "arylalkyl" and "heteroarylalkyl" refer to aromatic and
heteroaromatic ring systems which are bonded to their attachment point through a
linking group such as an alkylene, including substituted or unsubstituted, saturated or
unsaturated, cyclic or acyclic linkers. Typically the linker is C1-C8 alkyl. These linkers
may also include a carbonyl group, thus making them able to provide substituents as an
acyl or heteroacyl moiety. An aryl or heteroaryl ring in an arylalkyl or heteroarylalkyl
group may be substituted with the same substituents described above for aryl groups.
Preferably, an arylalkyl group includes a phenyl ring optionally substituted with the
groups defined above for aryl groups and a C1-C4 alkylene that is unsubstituted or is
substituted with one or two C1-C4 alkyl groups or heteroalkyl groups, where the alkyl or
heteroalkyl groups can optionally cyclize to form a ring such as cyclopropane,
dioxolane, or oxacyclopentane. Similarly, a heteroarylalkyl group preferably includes a
C5-C6   monocyclic heteroaryl group that is optionally substituted with the groups
described above as substituents typical on aryl groups and a C1-C4 alkylene that is
unsubstituted or is substituted with one or two C1-C4 alkyl groups or heteroalkyl groups,
or it includes an optionally substituted phenyl ring or C5-C6 monocyclic heteroaryl and a
C1-C4   heteroalkylene that is unsubstituted or is substituted with one or two C1-C4 alkyl
or heteroalkyl groups, where the alkyl or heteroalkyl groups can optionally cyclize to
form a ring such as cyclopropane, dioxolane, or oxacyclopentane.
        [0088] Where an arylalkyl or heteroarylalkyl group is described as optionally
substituted, the substituents may be on either the alkyl or heteroalkyl portion or on the
aryl or heteroaryl portion of the group. The substituents optionally present on the alkyl
or heteroalkyl portion are the same as those described above for alkyl groups generally;
the substituents optionally present on the aryl or heteroaryl portion are the same as
those described above for aryl groups generally.
        [0089] "Arylalkyl" groups as used herein are hydrocarbyl groups if they are
unsubstituted, and are described by the total number of carbon atoms in the ring and
                                              64

alkylene or similar linker. Thus a benzyl group is a C7-arylalkyl group, and phenylethyl
is a C8-arylalkyl.
         [0090] "Heteroarylalkyl" as described above refers to a moiety comprising an
aryl group that is attached through a linking group, and differs from "arylalkyl" in that at
least one ring atom of the aryl moiety or one atom in the linking group is a heteroatom
selected from N, 0 and S. The heteroarylalkyl groups are described herein according to
the total number of atoms in the ring and linker combined, and they include aryl groups
linked through a heteroalkyl linker; heteroaryl groups linked through a hydrocarbyl linker
such as an alkylene; and heteroaryl groups linked through a heteroalkyl linker. Thus,
for example, C7-heteroarylalkyl would include pyridylmethyl, phenoxy, and N
pyrrolylmethoxy.
         [0091] "Alkylene" as used herein refers to a divalent hydrocarbyl group; because
it is divalent, it can link two other groups together. Typically it refers to -(CH   2 )n
where n is 1-8 and preferably n is 1-4, though where specified, an alkylene can also be
substituted by other groups, and can be of other lengths, and the open valences need
not be at opposite ends of a chain. The general term "alkylene" encompasses more
specific examples such as "ethylene," wherein n is 2, "propylene," wherein n is 3, and
"butylene," wherein n is 4. The hydrocarbyl groups of the alkylene can be optionally
substituted as described above.
         [0092] In general, any alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, acyl, or aryl or arylalkyl group that
is contained in a substituent may itself optionally be substituted by additional
substituents. The nature of these subtituents is similar to those recited with regard to
the primary substituents themselves if the substituents are not otherwise described.
         [0093] "Amino" as used herein refers to -NH      2, but where an amino is described
as "substituted" or "optionally substituted", the term includes NR'R" wherein each R'
and R" is independently H, or is an alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, acyl, aryl, or arylalkyl group,
and each of the alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, acyl, aryl, or arylalkyl groups is optionally
substituted with the substituents described herein as suitable for the corresponding
group; the R' and R" groups and the nitrogen atom to which they are attached can
optionally form a 3- to 8-membered ring which may be saturated, unsaturated or
                                               65

aromatic and which contains 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from N, 0 and S
as ring members, and which is optionally substituted with the substituents described as
suitable for alkyl groups or, if NR'R" is an aromatic group, it is optionally substituted with
the substituents described as typical for heteroaryl groups.
        [0094] As used herein, the term "carbocycle," "carbocyclyl," or "carbocyclic"
refers to a cyclic ring containing only carbon atoms in the ring, whereas the term
"heterocycle" or "heterocyclic" refers to a ring comprising a heteroatom. The carbocyclyl
can be fully saturated or partially saturated, but non-aromatic. For example, the general
term "carbocyclyl" encompasses cycloalkyl. The carbocyclic and heterocyclic structures
encompass compounds having monocyclic, bicyclic or multiple ring systems; and such
systems may mix aromatic, heterocyclic, and carbocyclic rings. Mixed ring systems are
described according to the ring that is attached to the rest of the compound being
described.
        [0095] As used herein, the term "heteroatom" refers to any atom that is not
carbon or hydrogen, such as nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur. When it is part of the backbone
or skeleton of a chain or ring, a heteroatom must be at least divalent, and will typically
be selected from N, 0, P, and S.
        [0096] As used herein, the term "alkanoyl" refers to an alkyl group covalently
linked to a carbonyl (C=O) group. The term "lower alkanoyl" refers to an alkanoyl group
in which the alkyl portion of the alkanoyl group is C1-C6. The alkyl portion of the
alkanoyl group can be optionally substituted as described above. The term
"alkylcarbonyl" can alternatively be used. Similarly, the terms "alkenylcarbonyl" and
"alkynylcarbonyl" refer to an alkenyl or alkynyl group, respectively, linked to a carbonyl
group.
        [0097] As used herein, the term "alkoxy" refers to an alkyl group covalently
linked to an oxygen atom; the alkyl group can be considered as replacing the hydrogen
atom of a hydroxyl group. The term "lower alkoxy" refers to an alkoxy group in which
the alkyl portion of the alkoxy group is C1-C6. The alkyl portion of the alkoxy group can
be optionally substituted as described above. As used herein, the term "haloalkoxy"
                                              66

refers to an alkoxy group in which the alkyl portion is substituted with one or more halo
groups.
        [0098] As used herein, the term "sulfo" refers to a sulfonic acid (-SO       3 H)
substituent.
        [0099] As used herein, the term "sulfamoyl" refers to a substituent with the
structure -S(0    2 )NH2 , wherein the nitrogen of the NH2 portion of the group can be
optionally substituted as described above.
        [0100] As used herein, the term "carboxyl" refers to a group of the structure
C(0 2 )H.
        [0101] As used herein, the term "carbamyl" refers to a group of the structure
C(0 2 )NH2 , wherein the nitrogen of the NH2 portion of the group can be optionally
substituted as described above.
        [0102] As used herein, the terms "monoalkylaminoalkyl" and "dialkylaminoalkyl"
refer to groups of the structure -Alk    1 -NH-Alk 2 and -Alk1-N(Alk   2)(Alk3), wherein Alk1 ,
Alk 2, and Alk3 refer to alkyl groups as described above.
        [0103] As used herein, the term "alkylsulfonyl" refers to a group of the structure
-S(O)   2 -Alk wherein Alk refers to an alkyl group as described above. The terms
"alkenylsulfonyl" and "alkynylsulfonyl" refer analogously to sulfonyl groups covalently
bound to alkenyl and alkynyl groups, respectively. The term "arylsulfonyl" refers to a
group of the structure -S(O)     2 -Ar wherein Ar refers to an aryl group as described above.
The term "aryloxyalkylsulfonyl" refers to a group of the structure -S(O)      2-Alk-O-Ar,
where Alk is an alkyl group as described above and Ar is an aryl group as described
above. The term "arylalkylsulfonyl" refers to a group of the structure -S(O)       2-AlkAr,
where Alk is an alkyl group as described above and Ar is an aryl group as described
above.
        [0104] As used herein, the term "alkyloxycarbonyl" refers to an ester substituent
including an alkyl group wherein the carbonyl carbon is the point of attachment to the
molecule. An example is ethoxycarbonyl, which is CH 3 CH 2 0C(O)-. Similarly, the
terms "alkenyloxycarbonyl," "alkynyloxycarbonyl," and "cycloalkylcarbonyl" refer to
similar ester substituents including an alkenyl group, alkenyl group, or cycloalkyl group
                                                67

respectively. Similarly, the term "aryloxycarbonyl" refers to an ester substituent
including an aryl group wherein the carbonyl carbon is the point of attachment to the
molecule. Similarly, the term "aryloxyalkylcarbonyl" refers to an ester substituent
including an alkyl group wherein the alkyl group is itself substituted by an aryloxy group.
        [0105] Other combinations of substituents are known in the art and, are
described, for example, in United States Patent No. 8,344,162 to Jung et al.,
incorporated herein by this reference. For example, the term "thiocarbonyl" and
combinations of substituents including "thiocarbonyl" include a carbonyl group in which
a double-bonded sulfur replaces the normal double-bonded oxygen in the group. The
term "alkylidene" and similar terminology refer to an alkyl group, alkenyl group, alkynyl
group, or cycloalkyl group, as specified, that has two hydrogen atoms removed from a
single carbon atom so that the group is double-bonded to the remainder of the structure.
        [0106] Accordingly, methods and compositions according to the present
invention encompass meisoindigo derivatives and analogs including one or more
optional substituents as defined above, provided that the optionally substituted
meisoindigo derivative or analog possesses substantially equivalent pharmacological
activity to the meisoindigo derivative or analog as defined in terms of cell cycle arrest or
apoptosis enhancement. Methods for determining cell cycle arrest are known in the art
and are described in K. Polyak et al., "p27Kipl, a Cyclin-Cdk Inhibitor, Links
Transforming Growth Factor-Beta and Contact Inhibition to Cell Cycle Arrest," Genes &
Develop. 8: 9-22 (1994), incorporated herein by this reference. Methods for determining
enhancement of apoptosis are known in the art and are described in M. Faber et al.,
"Overexpression of the Rabies Virus Glycoprotein Results in Enhancement of Apoptosis
and Antiviral Immune Response," J. Virol. 76: 3374-3381 (2002), incorporated herein by
this reference.
        [0107] A number of indirubin derivatives have the activity of glycogen synthase
kinase-3 antagonists or Wnt agonists, as described in United States Patent No.
8,349,822 to Yu, incorporated herein by this reference. The Wnt signaling pathway is
described in C.Y. Logan & R. Nusse, "The Wnt Signaling Pathway in Development and
Disease," Annu. Rev. Cell. Dev. Biol. 20: 781-810 (2004), incorporated herein by this
                                             68

reference. The Wnt pathway involves a diverse family of Wnt glycoproteins that act as
ligands to regulate the production of intracellular signaling molecules to produce a
cellular response. These Wnt glycoprotein ligands include several different proteins
such as WNT1, WNT2, WNT2B, WNT3, WNT3A, WNT4, WNT5A, WNT5B, WNT6,
WNT7A, WNT7B, WNT8A, WNT8B, WNT9A, WNT9B, WNT1 0A, WNT1 OB, WNT1 1,
and WNT1 6. There are several variations of the Wnt pathway, namely the canonical
Wnt pathway, the noncanonical Planar Cell Polarity pathway, and the noncanonical
Wnt/calcium pathway. The canonical pathway, the best known, causes an
accumulation of p-catenin in the cytoplasm and the eventual translocation of the p
catenin to the nucleus to act as a transcriptional coactivator of transcription factors that
belong to the TCF/LEF family. GSK-3 is a kinase that phosphorylates serine and
threonine amino acid residues in glycogen synthase and other proteins. GSK-3
phosphorylates p-catenin, thus tying GSK-3 to the Wnt pathway; phosphorylated p
catenin is targeted for degradation. The activity of GSK-3 is described in R.S. Jope,
"The Glamour and Gloom of Glycogen Synthase Kinase-3," Trends Biochem. Sci. 29:
95-102 (2004), incorporated herein by this reference. Indirubin and some indirubin
derivatives also have the activity of inhibiting cyclin-dependent protein kinase-2 (CDK2).
CDK2 is a member of the cyclin-dependent family of serine/threonine protein kinase and
regulates the cell cycle. The activity of CDK2 is described in J. Du et al., "Critical Role
of CDK2 for Melanoma Growth Linked to Its Melanocyte-Specific Transcriptional
Regulation by MITF," Cancer Cell: 6: 565-576 (2004), incorporated herein by this
reference. Accordingly, within the scope of the present invention are indirubin
derivatives and analogs that are GSK-3 antagonists. Also within the scope of the
present invention are indirubin derivatives and analogs that are Wnt agonists.
Additionally, within the scope of the present invention are indirubin derivatives and
analogs that are CDK2 inhibitors.
        [0108] Also within the scope of the present invention are pharmaceutically
acceptable salts of indirubin analogs and derivatives as described above, including
pharmaceutically acceptable salts of meisoindigo. "Pharmaceutically acceptable salt"
refers to conventional acid-addition or base-addition salts that retain the biological
                                               69

effectiveness and properties of the indirubin analogs and derivatives described above
and are formed from suitable non-toxic organic or inorganic acids or organic or
inorganic bases. All of these salts may be prepared by conventional means from the
corresponding compound of the invention by reacting, for example, the appropriate acid
or base with the compound of the invention. When a basic group and an acid group are
present in the same molecule, a compound of the invention may also form internal salts.
Accordingly, when the indirubin analog or derivative is negatively charged,
pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be formed with the following positively-charged
ions: sodium, potassium, aluminum, lithium, calcium, magnesium, zinc, ammonium,
caffeine, arginine, diethylamine, N-ethylpiperidine, histidine, glucamine, isopropylamine,
lysine, morpholine, N-ethylmorpholine, piperazine, piperidine, triethylamine,
trimethylamine, ethanolamine, diethanolamine, N-methylglucamine, and
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane. When the indirubin analog or derivative is positively
charged, pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be formed with the following negatively
charged ions: chloride, bromide, iodide, carbonate, nitrate, sulfate, bisulfate, phosphate,
monohydrogen phosphate, dihydrogen phosphate, metaphosphate, pyrophosphate,
formate, acetate, adipate, butyrate, propionate, succinate, glycolate, gluconate, lactate,
malate, tartrate, citrate, ascorbate, glucuronate, maleate, fumarate, pyruvate, aspartate,
glutamate, benzoate, anthranilate, mesylate, 4'-hydroxybenzoate, phenylacetate,
mandelate, embonate (pamoate), methanesulfonate, ethanesulfonate,
ethanedisulfonate, benzenesulfonate, pantothenate, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonate, p
toluenesulfonate, sulfanilate, cyclohexylaminosulfonate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate,
digluconate, cyclopentanepropionate, dodecylsulfonate, glucoheptanoate,
glycerophosphonate, heptanoate, hexanoate, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonate, nicotinate,
isonicotinate, 1-naphthalenesulfonate, 2-naphthalenesulfonate, oxalate, palmoate,
pectinate, persulfurate, 2-phenylpropionate, picrate, pivalate, thiocyanate, mesylate,
undecanoate, stearate, algenate, p-hydroxybutyrate, salicylate, galactarate,
galacturonate, caprylate, isobutyrate, malonate, suberate, sebacate, chlorobenzoate,
methylbenzoate, dinitrobenzoate, phthalate, phenylacetate, isethionate, lactobionate, p
                                             70

aminobenzoate, sulfamate, diethylacetate, pimelate, aminosulfonate, acrylate, y
hydroxybutyrate, and methoxybenzoate.
        [0109] Prodrugs of indirubin and analogs and derivatives thereof, including
prodrugs of meisoindigo, are described below.
        [0110] (II)   Dose Modification
        [0111] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations to the
time that the compound is administered, the use of dose-modifying agents that control
the rate of metabolism of the compound, normal tissue protective agents, and other
alterations. General examples include: variations of infusion schedules (e.g., bolus i.v.
versus continuous infusion), the use of lymphokines (e.g., G-CSF, GM-CSF, EPO) to
increase leukocyte count for improved immune response or for preventing anemia
caused by myelosuppressive agents, or the use of rescue agents. Specific inventive
examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo,
include: continuous i.v. infusion for hours to days; biweekly administration; doses
greater than 5 mg/m 2/day; progressive escalation of dosing from 1 mg/m 2/day based on
                                             2
patient tolerance; doses less than 1 mg/m       for greater than 14 days; use of caffeine to
modulate metabolism; use of isoniazid to modulate metabolism; selected and
intermittent boost dose administrations; bolus single and multiple doses escalating from
5mg/m 2, oral doses below 30 or above 130 mg/m 2 ; chronic low dose administration of
from about 10 mg/day to about 25 mg/day; intermittent administration of from about 50
mg to about 150 mg twice weekly or three times weekly; administration of from about 50
mg/day to about 150 mg/day for 10-14 days per month; or chronic daily dosing at a
dose of equal to or greater than 100 mg/day.
        [0112] (III)  Route of Administration
        [0113] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations in the
route by which the compound is administered. General examples include: changing
route from oral to intravenous administration and vice versa; or the use of specialized
routes such as subcutaneous, intramuscular, intraarterial, intraperitoneal, intralesional,
                                               71

intralymphatic, intratumoral, intrathecal, intravesicular, intracranial. Specific inventive
examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo,
include: topical; intravesicular for bladder cancer; oral administration; slow release oral
delivery; intrathecal; intraarterial; continuous infusion; or intermittent infusion.
        [0114] (IV)    Schedule of Administration
        [0115] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations to the
time that the compound is administered. General examples include: changing from a
monthly administration to a weekly or daily dosing or variations of the schedule.
Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof , including
meisoindigo, include: daily; weekly for three weeks, weekly for two weeks, biweekly;
biweekly for three weeks with a 1-2 week rest period; intermittent boost dose
administration; daily for one week then once per week for multiple weeks.
        [0116] (V)     Indications for Use
        [0117] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations in the
types of disease or the clinical stage of disease that the compound is administered.
General examples include: the use of solid tumor agents for leukemias and vice versa,
the use of antitumor agents for the treatment of benign hyperproliferative disease such
as psoriasis or benign prostate hypertrophy. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: use for the treatment of
leukemias (acute and chronic, ALL, CLL, CML, CLL); use for the treatment of acute
promyelocytic leukemia (APL); use for the treatment of myelodysplastic syndrome
(MDS); use for the treatment of T-cell lymphomas; use for the treatment of B-cell
lymphomas; use for the treatment of mantle cell lymphomas; use for the suppression of
proliferation of cancer stem cells; use for the treatment of malignant pericardial
effusions; use for the treatment of ovarian carcinoma; use for the treatment of
carcinoma of the lung; use for the treatment of angiogenic diseases; use for the
treatment of benign prostate hypertrophy; use for the treatment of psoriasis; use for the
treatment of gout; use for the treatment of autoimmune conditions; use for the treatment
                                               72

of rheumatoid arthritis; use for treatment of insulin-resistant diabetes; use for prevention
of transplantation rejection; use for restenosis prevention in cardiovascular disease; use
for the treatment of mycosis fungoides; use in bone marrow transplantation; use as an
antiinfective; use for the treatment of AIDS; or use for the treatment of Alzheimer's
disease, including disease prevention, slowing of disease progression, and amelioration
or reversal of disease symptoms, due to the effect of meisoindigo on the
phosphorylation of T (tau) protein.
        [0118] (VI)    Disease Stages
        [0119] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations in the
stage of disease at diagnosis/progression that the compound is administered. General
examples include: the use of chemotherapy for non-resectable local disease,
prophylactic use to prevent metastatic spread or inhibit disease progression or
conversion to more malignant stages. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: use for the treatment of
localized polyp stage colon cancer; leukoplakia in the oral cavity; angiogenesis inhibition
to prevent or limit metastatic spread; against HIV with AZT, DDI, reverse transcriptase
inhibitors.
        [0120] (VII) Other Indications
        [0121] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by using the
compound for non-malignant diseases and conditions. General examples include:
premalignant conditions, benign hyperproliferative conditions, treatment of infections,
parasites, usage to relieve pain, control of pleural effusions. Specific inventive
examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo,
include: use as antiinfectives, antivirals; antibacterials; for pleural effusions; antifungals;
antiparasitics; eczema; shingles; condylomata; anti HPV; or anti HSV.
        [0122] (VIII) Patient Selection
        [0123] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations to the
                                              73

type of patient that would best tolerate or benefit from the use of the compound.
General examples include: use of pediatric doses for elderly patients, altered doses for
obese patients; exploitation of co-morbid disease conditions such as diabetes, cirrhosis,
or other conditions that may uniquely exploit a feature of the compound. Specific
inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including
meisoindigo, include: patients with disease conditions with high levels of metabolic
enzymes, histone deacetylase, protein kinases, ornithine decarboxylase; patients with
disease conditions with low levels of metabolic enzymes, histone deacetylase, protein
kinases, ornithine decarboxylase; patients with low or high susceptibility to
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia; patients intolerant of GI toxicities; over- or under
expression of jun, GPCR's and signal transduction proteins, VEGF, prostate specific
genes, protein kinases, or telomerase.
        [0124] (IX) Patient/Disease Phenotype
        [0125] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by more precise
identification of a patient's ability to tolerate, metabolize and exploit the use of the
compound. General examples include: use of diagnostic tools and kits to better
characterize a patient's ability to process/metabolize a chemotherapeutic agent or their
susceptibility to toxicity caused by potential specialized cellular, metabolic, or organ
system phenotypes. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and
derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: diagnostic tools, techniques, kits and
assays to confirm a patient's particular phenotype and for the measurement of
metabolism enzymes and metabolites, histone deacetylase, protein kinases, ornithine
decarboxylase, VEGF, prostate specific genes, protein kinases, telomerase, jun
GPCR's; or surrogate compound dosing or low dose drug pre-testing for enzymatic
status.
        [0126] (X) Patient/Disease Genotype
        [0127] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof , including meisoindigo, are made by testing and
analyzing a patient's genotype for unique features that may be of value to predict
                                                 74

efficacy, toxicity, metabolism, or other factors affecting the therapeutic efficacy of the
drug. General examples include: biopsy samples of tumors or normal tissues (e.g.,
white blood cells) that may also be taken and analyzed to specifically tailor or monitor
the use of a particular drug against a gene target; studies of unique tumor gene
expression patterns; or analysis of SNP's (single nucleotide polymorphisms), to
enhance efficacy or to avoid particular drug-sensitive normal tissue toxicities. Specific
inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including
meisoindigo, include: diagnostic tools, techniques, kits and assays to confirm a patient's
particular genotype; gene/protein expression chips and analysis; Single Nucleotide
Polymorphisms (SNP's) assessment; SNP's for histone deacetylase, ornithine
decarboxylase, GPCR's, protein kinases, telomerase, jun; or identification and
measurement of metabolism enzymes and metabolites.
        [0128] (XI) Pre/Post-Treatment Preparation
        [0129] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by specialized preparation of a patient
prior to or after the use of a chemotherapeutic agent. General examples include:
induction or inhibition of metabolizing enzymes, specific protection of sensitive normal
tissues or organ systems. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and
derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: the use of colchicine or analogs; use
of diuretics such as probenecid; use of uricase; non-oral use of nicotinamide; sustained
release forms of nicotinamide; use of inhibitors of polyADP ribose polymerase; use of
caffeine; leucovorin rescue; infection control; or antihypertensives.
        [0130] (XII) Toxicity Management
        [0131] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by use of additional
drugs or procedures to prevent or reduce potential side-effects or toxicities. General
examples include: the use of anti-emetics, anti-nausea, hematological support agents to
limit or prevent neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, vitamins, antidepressants,
treatments for sexual dysfunction, and other supportive techniques. Specific inventive
examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo,
                                              75

include: the use of colchicine or analogs; use of diuretics such as probenecid; use of
uricase; non-oral use of nicotinamide; sustained release forms of nicotinamide; use of
inhibitors of poly ADP-ribose polymerase; use of caffeine; leucovorin rescue; use of
sustained release allopurinol; non-oral use of allopurinol; bone marrow transplant
stimulants, blood, platelet infusions, Neupogen, G-CSF; GM-CSF; pain management;
anti-inflammatories; fluids; corticosteroids; insulin control medications; anti-pyretics;
anti-nausea treatments; anti-diarrhea treatment; N-acetyl cysteine; or antihistamines.
        [0132] (XIII) Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic Monitoring
        [0133] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof are made by the use of monitoring drug levels after
dosing in an effort to maximize a patient's drug plasma level, to monitor the generation
of toxic metabolites, monitoring of ancillary medicines that could be beneficial or harmful
in terms of drug-drug interactions. General examples include: the monitoring of drug
plasma protein binding, and monitoring of other pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic
variables. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof
include: multiple determinations of drug plasma levels; or multiple determinations of
metabolites in the blood or urine.
        [0134] (XIV) Drug Combinations
        [0135] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by exploiting unique
drug combinations that may provide a more than additive or synergistic improvement in
efficacy or side-effect management. General examples include: alkylating agents with
anti-metabolites, topoisomerase inhibitors with antitubulin agents. Specific inventive
examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo,
include: use with topoisomerase inhibitors; use with fraudulent nucleosides; use with
fraudulent nucleotides; use with thymidylate synthetase inhibitors; use with signal
transduction inhibitors; use with cisplatin or platinum analogs such as oxaliplatin,
satraplatin, or carboplatin; use with alkylating agents such as the nitrosoureas (BCNU,
Gliadel wafers, CCNU) bendamustine (Treanda); use with anti-tubulin agents; use with
antimetabolites; use with berberine; use with apigenin; use with amonafide; use with
                                              76

colchicine and analogs; use with genistein; use with etoposide; use with cytarabine; use
with camptothecins; use with vinca alkaloids; use with 5-fluorouracil; use with curcumin;
use with NF-KB inhibitors; use with rosmarinic acid; use with mitoguazone; use with
tetrandrine; use with antineoplastic agents not metabolized by cytochrome P450 CYP
1A2 or CYP 2C19; use in combination with biological therapies such as antibodies such
as Avastin, Rituxan, Herceptin, or Erbitux; use with tyrosine kinase inhibitors; use with
all-trans-retinoic acid; use with arsenicals such as arsenic trioxide; use with
hydroxyurea; use with thioguanine; use with mercaptopurine; use with
homoharringtonine; use with oridonin; use with uracil mustard; use with nilotinib; use
with dasatinib; use with lonidamine; use with 5-azacytidine; use with thalidomide or
analogs thereof; use with EGFR inhibitors such as erlotinib, afatinib, lapatinib, or
dacomitinib; use with gold salts such as aurothiomalate or aurothioglucose; use with
dibromodulcitol; use with dianhydrogalactitol; use with decitabine; or use with
bortezomib or other proteasome inhibitors.
        [0136] (XV) Chemosensitization
        [0137] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by exploiting them as
chemosensitizers where no measureable activity is observed when used alone but in
combination with other therapeutics a more than additive or synergistic improvement in
efficacy is observed. General examples include: misonidazole with alkylating agents, or
tirapazamine with cisplatin. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and
derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: as a chemosensitizer in combination
with topoisomerase inhibitors; use with fraudulent nucleosides; use with fraudulent
nucleotides; use with thymidylate synthetase inhibitors; use with signal transduction
inhibitors; use with cisplatin or platinum analogs; use with alkylating agents such as
BCNU Gliadel wafers, CCNU, bendamustine (Treanda) Temozoloimide (Temodar); use
with anti-tubulin agents; use with antimetabolites; use with berberine; use with apigenin;
use with amonafide; use with colchicine or analogs thereof; use with genistein; use with
etoposide; use with cytarabine; use with camptothecins; use with vinca alkaloids; use
                                              77

with topoisomerase inhibitors; use with 5-fluorouracil; use with curcumin; use with NF
KB  inhibitors; use with rosmarinic acid; use with mitoguazone; or use with tetrandrine.
        [0138] (XVI) Chemopotentiation
        [0139] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by exploiting them as
chemopotentiators where minimal therapeutic activity is observed alone but in
combination with other therapeutics unique drug a more than additive or synergistic
improvement in efficacy is observed. General examples include: amonafide with
cisplatin or 5-FU. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives
thereof, including meisoindigo, include: as a chemopotentiator in combination with
topoisomerase inhibitors; use with fraudulent nucleosides; use with thymidylate
synthetase inhibitors; use with signal transduction inhibitors; use with cisplatin or
platinum analogs; use with alkylating agents such as BCNU, BCNU wafers, Gliadel,
bendamustine (Treanda); use with anti-tubulin agents; use with antimetabolites; use
with berberine; use with apigenin; use with amonafide; use with colchicine or analogs
thereof; use with genistein; use with etoposide; use with cytarabine; use with
camptothecins; use with vinca alkaloids; use with topoisomerase inhibitors; use with 5
fluorouracil; use with curcumin; use with NF-KB inhibitors; use with rosmarinic acid; use
with mitoguazone; or use with tetrandrine.
        [0140] (XVII) Post-Treatment Patient Management
        [0141] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by drugs, treatments
and diagnostics to allow for the maximum benefit to patients treated with a compound.
General examples include: pain management, nutritional support, anti-emetics, anti
nausea therapies, anti-anemia therapy, anti-inflammatories. Specific inventive
examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo,
include: use with therapies associated with pain management; nutritional support; anti
emetics; anti-nausea therapies; anti-anemia therapy; anti-inflammatories: antipyretics;
or immune stimulants.
        [0142] (XVIII) Alternative Medicine/Therapeutic Support
                                             78

       [0143] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by the use of
unapproved/non-conventional therapeutics or methods to enhance effectiveness or
reduce side effects. General examples include: hypnosis, acupuncture, meditation,
herbal medications and extracts, applied kinesiology, prayer. Specific inventive
examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo,
include: hypnosis; acupuncture; meditation; herbal medications created either
synthetically or through extraction including NF-KB inhibitors (such as parthenolide,
curcumin, rosmarinic acid); natural anti-inflammatories (including rhein, parthenolide);
immunostimulants (such as those found in Echinacea); antimicrobials (such as
berberine); flavonoids, isoflavones, and flavones (such as apigenenin, genistein,
genistin, 6"-O-malonylgenistin, 6"-O-acetylgenistin, daidzein, daidzin, 6"-O
malonyldaidzin, 6"-O-acetylgenistin, glycitein, glycitin, 6"-O-malonylglycitin, and 6-0
acetylglycitin); or applied kinesiology.
       [0144] (XIX) Bulk Drug Product Improvements
       [0145] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations in the
pharmaceutical bulk substance. General examples include: salt formation,
homogeneous crystalline structure, pure isomers. Specific inventive examples for
indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: salt
formation; homogeneous crystalline structure; pure isomers; increased purity; or lower
residual solvents and heavy metals.
       [0146] (XX) Diluent Systems
       [0147] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations in the
diluents used to solubilize and deliver/present the compound for administration.
General examples include: Cremophor-EL, cyclodextrins for poorly water soluble
compounds. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives
thereof, including meisoindigo, include: use of emulsions; dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO);
N-methylformamide (NMF); dimethylformamide (DMF); dimethylacetamide (DMA);
                                             79

ethanol; benzyl alcohol; dextrose containing water for injection; Cremophor;
cyclodextrins; or polyethylene glycol (PEG).
        [0148] (XXI) Solvent Systems
        [0149] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations in the
solvents used or required to solubilize a compound for administration or for further
dilution. General examples include: ethanol, dimethylacetamide (DMA). Specific
inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including
meisoindigo, include: the use of emulsions; DMSO; NMF; DMF; DMA; ethanol; benzyl
alcohol; dextrose containing water for injection; Cremophor; or PEG.
        [0150] (XXII) Excipients
        [0151] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations in the
materials/excipients, buffering agents, or preservatives required to stabilize and present
a chemical compound for proper administration. General examples include: mannitol,
albumin, EDTA, sodium bisulfite, benzyl alcohol. Specific inventive examples for
indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: the use of
mannitol; albumin; EDTA; sodium bisulfite; benzyl alcohol; carbonate buffers; or
phosphate buffers.
        [0152] (XXIII) Dosage Forms
        [0153] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations in the
potential dosage forms of the compound dependent on the route of administration,
duration of effect, plasma levels required, exposure to side-effect normal tissues and
metabolizing enzymes. General examples include: tablets, capsules, topical gels,
creams, patches, suppositories. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs
and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: the use of tablets; capsules;
topical gels; topical creams; patches; suppositories; or lyophilized dosage fills.
        [0154] (XXIV) Dosage Kits and Packaging
                                             80

        [0155] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations in the
dosage forms, container/closure systems, accuracy of mixing and dosage preparation
and presentation. General examples include: amber vials to protect from light, stoppers
with specialized coatings. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and
derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: the use of amber vials to protect
from light; or stoppers with specialized coatings to improve shelf-life stability.
        [0156] (XXV) Drug Delivery Systems
        [0157] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by the use of delivery
systems to improve the potential attributes of a pharmaceutical product such as
convenience, duration of effect, reduction of toxicities. General examples include:
nanocrystals, bioerodible polymers, liposomes, slow release injectable gels,
microspheres. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives
thereof, including meisoindigo, include: the use of nanocrystals; bioerodible polymers;
liposomes; slow release injectable gels; or microspheres.
        [0158] (XXVI) Drug Conjugate Forms
        [0159] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations to the
parent molecule with covalent, ionic, or hydrogen bonded moieties to alter the efficacy,
toxicity, pharmacokinetics, metabolism, or route of administration. General examples
include: polymer systems such as polyethylene glycols, polylactides, polyglycolides,
amino acids, peptides, or multivalent linkers. Specific inventive examples for indirubin
or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: the use of polymer
systems such as polyethylene glycols; polylactides; polyglycolides; amino acids;
peptides; or multivalent linkers.
        [0160] (XXVII) Compound Analogs
        [0161] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations to the
parent structure of a molecule with additional chemical functionalities that may alter
                                            81

efficacy, or reduce toxicity, pharmacological performance, route of administration, or
another relevant factor for therapeutic efficacy. General examples include: alteration of
side chains to increase or decrease lipophilicity, additional chemical functionalities to
alter reactivity, electron affinity, binding capacity, salt forms. Specific inventive
examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo,
include: alteration of side chains to increase or decrease lipophilicity; additional
chemical functionalities to alter reactivity; electron affinity; binding capacity; or salt
forms. The additional chemical functionalities to alter reactivity can include, but are not
necessarily limited to, alkylating functionalities or binding sites for colchicine.
        [0162] (XXVIII) Prodrugs
        [0163] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by alterations to the
molecule such that improved pharmaceutical performance is gained with a variant of the
active molecule in that after introduction into the body a portion of the molecule is
cleaved to reveal the preferred active molecule. General examples include: enzyme
sensitive esters, dimers, Schiff bases. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: the use of enzyme
sensitive esters; the use of dimers; the use of Schiff bases; the use of pyridoxal
complexes; the use of caffeine complexes; the use of N-substituted carbohydrate
derivatives; the use of Mannich N-oxides; the use of products of reaction with an
acylating or carbamylating agent; the use of hexanoate conjugates; the use of polymer
agent conjugates; or the use of prodrugs that are subject to redox activation.
        [0164] (XXIX) Multiple Drug Systems
        [0165] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by the use of
additional compounds, biological agents that when administered in the proper fashion, a
unique and beneficial effect can be realized. General examples include: inhibitors of
multi-drug resistance, specific drug resistance inhibitors, specific inhibitors of selective
enzymes, signal transduction inhibitors, repair inhibition. Specific inventive examples
for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: the use
                                                82

of inhibitors of multi-drug resistance; specific drug resistance inhibitors; specific
inhibitors of selective enzymes; signal transduction inhibitors; repair inhibition; or
topoisomerase inhibitors with non-overlapping side effects.
        [0166] (XXX) Biotherapeutic Enhancement
        [0167] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by their use in
combination as sensitizers/potentiators with biological response modifiers. General
examples include: use in combination as sensitizers/poteniators with biological
response modifiers, cytokines, lymphokines, therapeutic antibodies, antisense
therapies, gene therapies. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and
derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: use in combination as
sensitizers/potentiators with biological response modifiers; cytokines; lymphokines;
therapeutic antibodies; antisense therapies such as Avastin, Herceptin, Rituxan, and
Erbitux; gene therapies; ribozymes; or RNA interference.
        [0168] (XXXI) Biotherapeutic Resistance Modulation
        [0169] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by exploiting their
selective use to overcome developing or complete resistance to the efficient use of
biotherapeutics. General examples include: tumors resistant to the effects of biological
response modifiers, cytokines, lymphokines, therapeutic antibodies, antisense
therapies, gene therapies. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and
derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, include: the use against tumors resistant to
the effects of biological response modifiers; cytokines; lymphokines; therapeutic
antibodies; antisense therapies; therapies such as Avastin, Rituxan, Herceptin, Erbitux;
gene therapies; ribozymes; or RNA interference.
        [0170] (XXXII) Radiation Therapy Enhancement
        [0171] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by exploiting their use
in combination with ionizing radiation, phototherapies, heat therapies, or radio
frequency generated therapies. General examples include: hypoxic cell sensitizers,
                                             83

radiation sensitizers/protectors, photosensitizers, radiation repair inhibitors. Specific
inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including
meisoindigo, include: the use with hypoxic cell sensitizers; radiation
sensitizers/protectors; photosensitizers; radiation repair inhibitors; thiol depletion; vaso
targeted agents; use with radioactive seeds; use with radionuclides; use with
radiolabeled antibodies; or use with brachytherapy.
         [0172] (XXXIII) Novel Mechanisms of Action
         [0173] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by optimizing their
utility by determining the various mechanisms of action, biological targets of a
compound for greater understanding and precision to better exploit the utility of the
molecule. General examples include: Gleevec for chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML),
arsenic trioxide for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), retinoic acid for APL. Specific
inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof, including
meisoindigo, include: the use with inhibitors of poly-ADP ribose polymerase; agents that
effect vasculature; vasodilation; oncogenic targeted agents; signal transduction
inhibitors; EGFR inhibition; Protein Kinase C inhibition; Phospholipase C down
regulation; jun down-regulation; histone genes; VEGF; ornithine decarboxylase; jun D;
v-jun; GPCRs; protein kinase A; telomerase, prostate specific genes; protein kinases; or
histone deacetylase.
         [0174] (XXXIV) Selective Target Cell Population Therapeutics
         [0175] Improvements for suboptimal chemotherapeutics including indirubin or
analogs and derivatives thereof, including meisoindigo, are made by more precise
identification and exposure of the compound to those select cell populations where the
compound's effect can be maximally exploited. General examples include:
tirapazamine and mitomycin C for hypoxic cells, vinca alkaloids for cells entering
mitosis. Specific inventive examples for indirubin or analogs and derivatives thereof,
including meisoindigo, include: use against radiation sensitive cells; radiation resistant
cells; energy depleted cells; or endothelial cells.
                                             84

        [0176] Additional alternatives specifically applicable to indirubin derivatives and
analogs, including meisoindigo, are further described below in the description of
detailed alternatives for these categories.
        [0177] Accordingly, one aspect of the present invention is a method to improve
the efficacy and/or reduce the side effects of suboptimally administered drug therapy
employing a therapeutic agent selected from the group consisting of indirubin and an
analog or derivative thereof comprising the steps of:
               (1)    identifying at least one factor or parameter associated with the
efficacy and/or occurrence of side effects of the drug therapy employing a therapeutic
agent selected from the group consisting of indirubin and an analog or derivative
thereof; and
               (2)    modifying the factor or parameter to improve the efficacy and/or
reduce the side effects of the drug therapy.
        [0178] Typically, the factor or parameter is selected from the group consisting of:
               (1)    dose modification;
               (2)    route of administration;
               (3)    schedule of administration;
               (4)    indications for use;
               (5)    selection of disease stage;
               (6)    other indications;
               (7)    patient selection;
               (8)    patient/disease phenotype;
               (9)    patient/disease genotype;
               (10)   pre/post-treatment preparation
               (11)   toxicity management;
               (12)   pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic monitoring;
               (13)   drug combinations;
               (14)   chemosensitization;
               (15)   chemopotentiation;
               (16)   post-treatment patient management;
                                              85

                (17)  alternative medicine/therapeutic support;
                (18)  bulk drug product improvements;
                (19)  diluent systems;
                (20)  solvent systems;
                (21)  excipients;
                (22)  dosage forms;
                (23)  dosage kits and packaging;
                (24)  drug delivery systems;
                (25)  drug conjugate forms;
                (26)  compound analogs;
                (27)  prodrugs;
                (28)  multiple drug systems;
                (29)  biotherapeutic enhancement;
                (30)  biotherapeutic resistance modulation;
                (31)  radiation therapy enhancement;
                (32)  novel mechanisms of action; and
                (33)  selective target cell population therapeutics.
        [0179] Typically, the hyperproliferative disease is cancer. Methods according to
the present invention are applicable to many forms of cancer, including, but not limited
to: (A) breast cancer, including: (1) ductal carcinoma, including ductal carcinoma in situ
(DCIS) (comedocarcinoma, cribriform, papillary, micropapillary), infiltrating ductal
carcinoma (IDC), tubular carcinoma, mucinous (colloid) carcinoma, papillary carcinoma,
metaplastic carcinoma, and inflammatory carcinoma; (2) lobular carcinoma, including
lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) and invasive lobular carcinoma; and (3) Paget's
disease of the nipple; (B) cancers of the female reproductive system, including: (1)
cancers of the cervix uteri, including cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (Grade 1), cervical
intraepithelial neoplasia (Grade 11), cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (Grade Ill) (squamous
cell carcinoma in situ), keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, nonkeratinizing squamous
cell carcinoma, verrucous carcinoma, adenocarcinoma in situ, adenocarcinoma in situ,
endocervical type, endometrioid adenocarcinoma, clear cell adenocarcinoma,
                                               86

adenosquamous carcinoma, adenoid cystic carcinoma, small cell carcinoma, and
undifferentiated carcinoma; (2) cancers of the corpus uteri, including endometrioid
carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, adenocanthoma (adenocarcinoma with squamous
metaplasia), adenosquamous carcinoma (mixed adenocarcinoma and squamous cell
carcinoma, mucinous adenocarcinoma, serous adenocarcinoma, clear cell
adenocarcinoma, squamous cell adenocarcinoma, and undifferentiated
adenocarcinoma; (3) cancers of the ovary, including serous cystadenoma. serous
cystadenocarcinoma, mucinous cystadenoma, mucinous cystadenocarcinoma,
endometrioid tumor, endometrioid adenocarcinoma, clear cell tumor, clear cell
cystadenocarcinoma, and unclassified tumor; (4) cancers of the vagina, including
squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma; and (5) cancers of the vulva, including
vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (Grade 1), vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (Grade 11),
vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (Grade Ill) (squamous cell carcinoma in situ); squamous
cell carcinoma, verrucous carcinoma, Paget's disease of the vulva, adenocarcinoma
(NOS), basal cell carcinoma (NOS), and Bartholin's gland carcinoma; (C) cancers of the
male reproductive system, including: (1) cancers of the penis, including squamous cell
carcinoma; (2) cancers of the prostate, including adenocarcinoma, sarcoma, and
transitional cell carcinoma of the prostate; (3) cancers of the testis, including
seminomatous tumor, nonseminomatous tumor, teratoma, embryonal carcinoma, yolk
sac tumor, and Choriocarcinoma; (D) cancers of the cardiac system, including sarcoma
(angiosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, liposarcoma), myxoma,
rhabdomyoma, fibroma, lipoma and teratoma; (E) cancers of the respiratory system,
including squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx, primary pleural mesothelioma, and
squamous cell carcinoma of the pharynx; (F) cancers of the lung, including squamous
cell carcinoma (epidermoid carcinoma), variants of squamous cell carcinoma, spindle
cell carcinoma, small cell carcinoma, carcinoma of other cells, carcinoma of
intermediate cell type, combined oat cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, acinar
adenocarcinoma, papillary adenocarcinoma, bronchiolo-alveolar carcinoma, solid
carcinoma with mucus formation, large cell carcinoma, giant cell carcinoma, clear cell
carcinoma, and sarcoma; (G) cancers of the gastrointestinal tract, including: (1) cancers
                                              87

of the ampulla of Vater, including primary adenocarcinoma, carcinoid tumor, and
lymphoma; (2) cancers of the anal canal, including adenocarcinoma, squamous cell
carcinoma, and melanoma; (3) cancers of the extrahepatic bile ducts, including
carcinoma in situ, adenocarcinoma, papillary adenocarcinoma, adenocarcinoma,
intestinal type, mucinous adenocarcinoma, clear cell adenocarcinom, segnet-ring cell
carcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, small cell (oat)
carcinoma, undifferentiated carcinoma, carcinoma (NOS), sarcoma, and carcinoid
tumor; (4) cancers of the colon and rectum, including adenocarcinoma in situ,
adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenocarcinoma (colloid type; greater than 50% mucinous
carcinoma), signet ring cell carcinoma (greater than 50% signet ring cell), squamous
cell (epidermoid) carcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma, small cell (oat cell)
carcinoma, undifferentiated carcinoma, carcinoma (NOS), sarcoma, lymphoma, and
carcinoid tumor; (5) cancers of the esophagus, including squamous cell carcinoma,
adenocarcinoma, leiomyosarcoma, and lymphoma; (6) cancers of the gallbladder,
including adenocarcinoma, adenocarcinoma, intestinal type, adenosquamous
carcinoma, carcinoma in situ, carcinoma (NOS), clear cell adenocarcinoma, mucinous
adenocarcinoma, papillary adenocarcinoma, signet-ring cell carcinoma, small cell (oat
cell) carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and undifferentiated carcinoma; (7) cancers
of the lip and oral cavity, including squamous cell carcinoma; (8) cancers of the liver,
including hepatoma (hepatocellular carcinoma), cholangiocarcinoma, hepatoblastoma,
angiosarcoma, hepatocellular adenoma, and hemangioma; (9) cancers of the exocrine
pancreas, including duct cell carcinoma, pleomorphic giant cell carcinoma, giant cell
carcinoma, osteoclastoid type, adenocarcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma, mucinous
(colloid) carcinoma, cystadenocarcinoma, acinar cell carcinoma, papillary carcinoma,
small cell (oat cell) carcinoma, mixed cell typed, carcinoma (NOS), undifferentiated
carcinoma, endocrine cell tumors arising in the islets of langerhans, and carcinoid; (10)
cancers of the salivary glands, including acinic (acinar) cell carcinoma, adenoid cystic
carcinoma (cylindroma), adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, carcinoma in
pleomorphic adenoma (malignant mixed tumor), mucoepidermoid carcinoma (well
differentiated or low grade), and mucoepidermoid carcinoma (poorly differentiated or
                                             88

high grade); (11) cancers of the stomach, including adenocarcinoma, papillary
adenocarcinoma, tubular adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenocarcinoma, signet ring cell
carcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, small cell
carcinoma, undifferentiated carcinoma, lymphoma, sarcoma, and carcinoid tumor; and
(12) cancers of the small intestine, including adenocarcinoma, lymphoma, carcinoid
tumors, Kaposi's sarcoma, leiomyoma, hemangioma, lipoma, neurofibroma, and
fibroma; (H) cancers of the urinary system, including: (1) cancers of the kidney,
including renal cell carcinoma, carcinoma of Bellini's collecting ducts, adenocarcinoma,
papillary carcinoma, tubular carcinoma, granular cell carcinoma, clear cell carcinoma
(hypernephroma), sarcoma of the kidney, and nephroblastoma; (2) cancers of the renal
pelvis and ureter, including transitional cell carcinoma, papillary transitional cell
carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma; (3) cancers of the urethra,
including transitional cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma;
and (4) cancers of the urinary bladder, including carcinoma in situ, transitional urothelial
cell carcinoma, papillary transitional cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma,
adenocarcinoma, undifferentiated; (1)cancers of muscle, bone, and soft tissue,
including: (1) cancers of bone, including: (a) bone-forming: osteosarcoma; (b) cartilage
forming: chondrosarcoma and mesenchymal chondrosarcoma; (c) diant cell tumor,
malignant; (d) Ewing's sarcoma; (e) vascular tumors: hemangioendothelioma,
hemangiopericytoma, and angiosarcoma; (f) connective tissue tumors: fibrosarcoma,
liposarcoma, malignant mesenchymoma, and undifferentiated sarcoma; and (g) other
tumors: chordoma and adamantinoma of long bones; (2) cancers of soft tissues,
including: alveolar soft-part sarcoma, angiosarcoma, epithelioid sarcoma, extraskeletal
chondrosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma, liposarcoma, malignant fibrous
histiocytoma, malignant hemangiopericytoma, malignant mesenchymoma, malignant
schwannoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, synovial sarcoma, and sarcoma (NOS); (3) cancers
of the nervous system, including cancers of the skull (osteoma, hemangioma,
granuloma, xanthoma, osteitis deformans), cancers of the meninges (meningioma,
meningiosarcoma, gliomatosis), cancers of the brain (astrocytoma, medulloblastoma,
glioma, ependymoma, germinoma (pilealoma), glioblastoma multiform,
                                               89

oligodendroglioma, schwannoma, retinoblastoma, congenital tumors), and cancers of
the spinal cord neurofibroma, meningioma, glioma, sarcoma); (4) hematologic cancers,
including myeloid leukemia (acute and chronic), acute lymphloblastic leukemia, chronic
lymphocytic leukemia, myeloproliferative diseases, multiple myeloma; myelodysplastic
syndrome), Hodgkin's disease, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (malignant lymphoma);
(5) cancers of the endocrine system, including: (a) cancers of the thyroid gland,
including papillary carcinoma (including those with follicular foci), follicular carcinoma,
medullary carcinoma, and undifferentiated (anaplastic) carcinoma; and (b)
neuroblastomas, including sympathicoblastoma, sympathicogonioma, malignant
ganglioneuroma, gangliosympathicoblastoma, and ganglioneuroma; (6) cancers of the
skin, including squamous cell carcinoma, spindle cell variant of squamous cell
carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma developing from sweat or sebaceous
gland, and malignant melanoma; (7) cancers of the eye, including: (a) cancers of the
conjunctiva, including carcinoma of the conjunctiva; (b) cancers of the eyelid, including
basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, melanoma of the eyelid, and
sebaceous cell carcinoma; (c) cancers of the lacrimal gland, including adenocarcinoma,
adenoid cystic carcinoma, carcinoma in pleomorphic adenoma, mucoepidermoid
carcinoma, and squamous cell carcinoma; (d) cancers of the uvea, including spindle cell
melanoma, mixed cell melanoma, and epithelioid cell melanoma; (e) cancers of the
orbit, including sarcoma of the orbit, soft tissue tumor, and sarcoma of bone; and (f)
retinoblastoma; and (1)cancers of unknown primary origin. In particular, methods
according to the present invention and compositions suitable for use according to those
methods are applicable to lower grade astrocytomas and other primary central nervous
system tumors besides glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), as well as to central nervous
system metastases of other tumors including solid tumors and hematologic tumors (e.g.,
breast, lung, bladder, and bowel tumors, leukemias, and lymphomas), in addition to
squamous cell non-small cell lung cancer. In addition, methods according to the
present invention and compositions suitable for use according to those methods are
applicable to melanoma, breast lymphoma (both Hodgkins and non-Hodgkins),
colorectal cancer, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and for lowering the incidence of
                                               90

central nervous system leukemia, non-small cell lung cancer, cervical carcinoma,
bladder carcinoma, and metastatic hemangiopericytoma. In particular, when the
therapeutically active compound is meisoindigo, methods according to the present
invention and compositions suitable for use according to those methods are applicable
to acute myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, and colon cancer.
       [0180] In one alternative, the therapeutic agent is indirubin, an analog thereof, or
a derivative of indirubin or an analog thereof. Analogs of indirubin and derivatives of
indirubin and analogs of indirubin are described above as Alternatives (1)-(474). In
particular, methods and compositions according to the present invention are applicable
to meisoindigo.
       [0181] The following improvements all apply either to indirubin, analogs of
indirubin, or derivatives of indirubin or analogs of indirubin, including, but not limited to,
Alternatives (1)-(474), as indicated with respect to the specific improvement described
below. Methods according to the present invention are particularly applicable to
meisoindigo, and all methods encompass the use of meisoindigo or a derivative thereof
as specifically described.
       [0182] When the improvement is dose modification, the dose modification can
be, but is not limited to, at least one dose modification selected from the group
consisting of:
                       (a)     continuous i.v. infusion for hours to days;
                       (b)     biweekly administration;
                       (c)     doses greater than 5 mg/m 2 /day;
                       (d)     progressive escalation of dosing from 1 mg/m 2/day based on
patient tolerance;
                       (e)     use of caffeine to modulate metabolism;
                       (f)     use of isonazid to modulate metabolism;
                       (g)     selected and intermittent boosting of dosage administration;
                       (h)     administration of single and multiple doses escalating from
5mg/m 2/day via bolus;
                       (i)     oral dosages of below 30 mg/m 2;
                                                91

                     (j)    oral dosages of above 130 mg/m 2;
                     (k)    chronic low dose administration of from about 10 mg/day to
about 25 mg/day;
                     (I)    intermittent administration of from about 50 mg to about 150
mg twice weekly or three times weekly;
                     (m)    administration of from about 50 mg/day to about 150 mg/day
for 10-14 days per month; and
                     (n)    chronic daily dosing at a dose of equal to or greater than 100
mg/day.
        [0183] When the improvement is made by route of administration, the route of
administration can be, but is not limited to, at least one route of administration selected
from the group consisting of:
                     (a)    topical administration;
                     (b)    intravesicular administration for bladder cancer;
                     (c)    oral administration;
                     (d)    slow release oral delivery;
                     (e)    intrathecal administration;
                     (f)    intraarterial administration;
                     (g)    continuous infusion; and
                     (h)    intermittent infusion.
        [0184] When the improvement is made by schedule of administration, the
schedule of administration can be, but is not limited to, at least one schedule of
administration selected from the group consisting of:
                     (a)    daily administration;
                     (b)    weekly administration;
                     (c)    weekly administration for three weeks;
                     (d)    biweekly administration;
                     (e)    biweekly administration for three weeks with a 1-2 week rest
period;
                     (f)    intermittent boost dose administration; and
                                              92

                     (g)     daily administration for one week for multiple weeks.
       [0185] When the improvement is made by indication for use, the indication for
use can be, but is not limited to, at least one indication for use selected from the group
consisting of:
                     (a)     use for treatment of leukemias;
                     (b)     use for treatment of myelodysplastic syndrome;
                     (c)     use for treatment of T-cell lymphomas;
                     (d)     use for treatment of B-cell lymphomas;
                     (e)     use for treatment of mantle cell lymphoma;
                     (f)     use for suppression of proliferation of cancer stem cells;
                     (g)     use for treatment of ovarian carcinoma;
                     (h)     use for treatment of carcinoma of the lung;
                     (i)     use for treatment of angiogenic diseases;
                     (j)     use for treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia;
                     (k)     use for treatment of psoriasis;
                     (I)     use for treatment of gout;
                     (m)     use for treatment of autoimmune conditions;
                     (n)     use for treatment of treatment of insulin-resistant diabetes;
                     (o)     use for treatment of transplantation rejection;
                     (p)     use for prevention of restenosis in cardiovascular disease;
                     (q)     use for treatment of mycosis fungoides;
                     (r)     use in bone marrow transplantation;
                     (s)     use as an anti-infective agent;
                     (t)     use for treatment of AIDS; and
                     (u)     use for treatment of Alzheimer's disease, including disease
prevention, slowing of disease progression and amelioration or reversal or disease
symptoms, based on the effect of meisoindigo on phosphorylation of T (tau) protein.
       [0186] The leukemia to be treated can be, but is not limited to, acute myelocytic
leukemia (AML), chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML), acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL),
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), or acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL).
                                              93

        [0187] In one alternative, the indication for use is for treatment of AML with or
without administration of a therapeutically effective quantity of an antifungal agent,
wherein the antifungal agent is metabolized by a different cytochrome P450 enzyme
than the cytochrome P450 enzyme metabolizing the indirubin derivative or analog.
Antifungal agents include, but are not limited to, amphotericin B, voriconazole,
itraconazole, fluconazole, caspofungin, flucytosine, ketoconazole, posaconazole,
clotrimazole, miconazole, econazole, butozonazole, oxiconazole, sertaconazole,
sulconazole, and terconazole.
        [0188] In another alternative, the indication for use is for treatment of APL with
or without the administration of a therapeutically effective quantity of retinoic acids such
as all-trans-retinoic acid (tretinoin) and arsenicals such as arsenic trioxide.
        [0189] In still another alternative, the indication for use is for treatment of CML.
In one aspect of this alternative, the treatment of CML is of CML subsequent to or
simultaneously with failure of treatment by tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). In another
aspect of this alternative, the treatment of CML is of CML that is transitioning or has
transitioned to blast crisis. In still another aspect of this alternative, the treatment of
CML is in combination with administration of a therapeutically effective quantity of a
tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). Tyrosine kinase inhibitors used for treatment of chronic
myelocytic leukemia (CML) include, but are not limited to, imatinib, bosutinib, nilotinib,
dasatinib, erlotinib, afatinib, and dacomitinib. Additional tyrosine kinase inhibitors are
known in the art. For example, the use of tyrosine kinase inhibitors is described in
United States Patent Application Publication No. 2011/0206661 by Zhang et al., which
is directed to trimethoxyphenyl inhibitors of tyrosine kinase, and in United States Patent
Application Publication No. 2011/0195066, which is directed to quinoline inhibitors of
tyrosine kinase, both of which are incorporated herein by this reference. The use of
tyrosine kinase inhibitors is also described in United States Patent Application
Publication No. 2011/053968 by Zhang et al., incorporated herein by this reference,
which is directed to aminopyridine inhibitors of tyrosine kinase. The use of tyrosine
kinase inhibitors is also described in United States Patent Application Publication No.
2010/0291025, incorporated herein by this reference, which is directed to indazole
                                                94

inhibitors of tyrosine kinase. The use of tyrosine kinase inhibitors is also described in
United States Patent Application Publication No. 2010/0190749 by Ren et al.,
incorporated herein by this reference; these tyrosine kinase inhibitors are benzoxazole
compounds; compounds of this class can also inhibit mTOR and lipid kinases such as
phosphoinositide 3-kinases. The use of tyrosine kinase inhibitors is also described in
United States Patent No. 8,242,270 by Lajeunesse et al., incorporated herein by this
reference; these tyrosine kinase inhibitors are 2-aminothiazole-5-aromatic
carboxamides. Still other tyrosine kinase inhibitors are known in the art or are under
development, and are described in B.J. Druker & N.B. Lydon, "Lessons Learned from
the Development of an AbI Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor for Chronic Myelogenous
Leukemia," J. Clin. Invest. 105: 3-7 (2000), incorporated herein by this reference. In still
another aspect of this alternative, the treatment of CML is in combination with
administration of a therapeutically effective quantity of homoharringtonine.
Homoharringtonine (omacetaxine mepesuccinate) has the structure shown below:
                                         0
                                              HH
and is a protein translation inhibitor. Homoharringtonine inhibits protein translation by
preventing the initial elongation step of protein synthesis. It interacts with the ribosomal
A-site and prevents the correct positioning of amino acid side chains of incoming
aminoacyl-tRNAs. In still another aspect of this alterative, the treatment of CML is in
combination with administration of a therapeutically effective quantity of an alkylating
agent. Alkylating agents include, but are not limited to, Shionogi 254-S, aldo
phosphamide analogues, altretamine, anaxirone, Boehringer Mannheim BBR-2207,
bendamustine, bestrabucil, budotitane, busulfan, Wakunaga CA-1 02, carboplatin,
carmustine, Chinoin-139, Chinoin-153, chlorambucil, cisplatin, cyclophosphamide,
                                              95

American Cyanamid CL-286558, Sanofi CY-233, cyplatate, Degussa D-19-384,
Sumimoto DACHP(Myr) 2, dianhydrogalactitol, dibromodulcitol, other substituted
hexitols, diphenylspiromustine, diplatinum cytostatic, Erba distamycin derivatives,
Chugai DWA-2114R, ITI E09, elmustine, Erbamont FCE-24517, estramustine
phosphate sodium, fotemustine, Unimed G-6-M, Chinoin GYKI-17230, hepsul-fam,
ifosfamide, iproplatin, lomustine, mafosfamide, melphalan, mitolactol, Nippon Kayaku
NK-121, NCI NSC-264395, NCI NSC-342215, oxaliplatin, Upjohn PCNU,
prednimustine, Proter PTT-1 19, ranimustine, semustine, SmithKline SK&F-1 01772,
Yakult Honsha SN-22, spiromustine, Tanabe Seiyaku TA-077, tauromustine,
temozolomide, teroxirone, tetraplatin, trimelamol, and uramustine, as described in
United States Patent No. 7,446,122 by Chao et al., incorporated herein by this
reference. In still another aspect of this alternative, the treatment of CML is in
combination with administration of a therapeutically effective quantity of hydroxyurea.
       [0190] When the improvement is made by selection of disease stage, the
selection of disease stage can be, but is not limited to, at least one selection of disease
stage selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)    use for the treatment of localized polyp stage colon cancer;
                      (b)    use for leukoplakia in the oral cavity;
                      (c)    use for angiogenesis inhibition to prevent or limit metastatic
spread of a malignancy; and
                      (d)    use for treatment of HIV with a therapy selected from the
group consisting of azidothymidine (AZT), dideoxyadenosine (DDI), and reverse
transcriptase inhibitors.
       [0191] When the improvement is made by other indications, the other indications
can be, but are not limited, to at least one other indication selected from the group
consisting of:
                      (a)    use as an anti-infective agent;
                      (b)    use as an antiviral agent;
                      (c)    use as an antibacterial agent;
                      (d)    use as an agent to treat pleural effusion;
                                              96

                      (e)     use as an antifungal agent;
                      (f)     use as an anti-parasitic agent;
                      (g)     use as an agent to treat eczema;
                      (h)     use as an agent to treat herpes zoster (shingles);
                      (i)     use as an agent to treat condylomata;
                      (j)     use as an agent to treat human papilloma virus (HPV); and
                      (k)     use as an agent to treat herpes simplex virus (HSV).
        [0192] When the improvement is made by patient selection, the patient selection
can be, but is not limited to, a patient selection carried out by a criterion selected from
the group consisting of:
                      (a)     selecting patients with a disease condition characterized by
a high level of a metabolic enzyme selected from the group consisting of histone
deacetylase and ornithine decarboxylase;
                      (b)     selecting patients with a low or high susceptibility to a
condition selected from the group consisting of thrombocytopenia and neutropenia;
                      (c)     selecting patients intolerant of GI toxicities; and
                      (d)     selecting patients characterized by over- or under
expression of a gene selected from the group consisting of c-Jun, a GPCR, a signal
transduction protein, VEGF, a prostate-specific gene, and a protein kinase.
        [0193] The cellular proto-oncogene c-Jun encodes a protein that, in combination
with c-Fos, forms the AP-1 early response transcription factor. This proto-oncogene
plays a key role in transcription and interacts with a large number of proteins affecting
transcription and gene expression. It is also involved in proliferation and apoptosis of
cells that form part of a number of tissues, including cells of the endometrium and
glandular epithelial cells. G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) are important signal
transducing receptors. The superfamily of G protein coupled receptors includes a large
number of receptors. These receptors are integral membrane proteins characterized by
amino acid sequences that contain seven hydrophobic domains, predicted to represent
the transmembrane spanning regions of the proteins. They are found in a wide range of
organisms and are involved in the transmission of signals to the interior of cells as a
                                              97

result of their interaction with heterotrimeric G proteins. They respond to a diverse
range of agents including lipid analogues, amino acid derivatives, small molecules such
as epinephrine and dopamine, and various sensory stimuli. The properties of many
known GPCR are summarized in S. Watson & S. Arkinstall, "The G-Protein Linked
Receptor Facts Book" (Academic Press, London, 1994), incorporated herein by this
reference. GPCR receptors include, but are not limited to, acetylcholine receptors,      p
adrenergic receptors, p3-adrenergic receptors, serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine)
receptors, dopamine receptors, adenosine receptors, angiotensin Type II receptors,
bradykinin receptors, calcitonin receptors, calcitonin gene-related receptors,
cannabinoid receptors, cholecystokinin receptors, chemokine receptors, cytokine
receptors, gastrin receptors, endothelin receptors, y-aminobutyric acid (GABA)
receptors, galanin receptors, glucagon receptors, glutamate receptors, luteinizing
hormone receptors, choriogonadotrophin receptors, follicle-stimulating hormone
receptors, thyroid-stimulating hormone receptors, gonadotrophin-releasing hormone
receptors, leukotriene receptors, Neuropeptide Y receptors, opioid receptors,
parathyroid hormone receptors, platelet activating factor receptors, prostanoid
(prostaglandin) receptors, somatostatin receptors, thyrotropin-releasing hormone
receptors, vasopressin and oxytocin receptors.
         [0194] When the improvement is made by analysis of patient or disease
phenotype, the analysis of patient or disease phenotype can be, but is not limited to, a
method of analysis of patient or disease phenotype carried out by a method selected
from the group consisting of:
                       (a)     use of a diagnostic tool, a diagnostic technique, a diagnostic
kit, or a diagnostic assay to confirm a patient's particular phenotype;
                       (b)     use of a method for measurement of a marker selected from
the group consisting of histone deacetylase, ornithine decarboxylase, VEGF, a protein
that is a gene product of a prostate specific gene, a protein that is a gene product of jun,
and a protein kinase;
                       (c)     surrogate compound dosing; and
                       (d)     low dose pre-testing for enzymatic status.
                                               98

         [0195] When the improvement is made by analysis of patient or disease
genotype, the analysis of patient or disease genotype can be, but is not limited to, a
method of analysis of patient or disease genotype carried out by a method selected
from the group consisting of:
                       (a)    use of a diagnostic tool, a diagnostic technique, a diagnostic
kit, or a diagnostic assay to confirm a patient's particular genotype;
                       (b)    use of a gene chip;
                       (c)    use of gene expression analysis;
                       (d)    use of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis; and
                       (e)    measurement of the level of a metabolite or a metabolic
enzyme.
         [0196] The use of gene chips is described in A.J. Lee & S. Ramaswamy, "DNA
Microarrays in Biological Discovery and Patient Care" in Essentials of Genomic and
Personalized Medicine (G.S. Ginsburg & H.F. Willard, eds., Academic Press,
Amsterdam, 2010), ch. 7, pp. 73-88, incorporated herein by this reference.
         [0197] When the method is the use of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)
analysis, the SNP analysis can be carried out on a gene selected from the group
consisting of histone deacetylase, ornithine decarboxylase, VEGF, a prostate specific
gene, c-Jun, and a protein kinase. The use of SNP analysis is described in S. Levy and
Y.-H. Rogers, "DNA Sequencing for the Detection of Human Genome Variation" in
Essentials of Genomic and Personalized Medicine (G.S. Ginsburg & H.F. Willard, eds.,
Academic Press, Amsterdam, 2010), ch. 3, pp. 27-37, incorporated herein by this
reference.
         [0198] Still other genomic techniques such as copy number variation analysis
and analysis of DNA methylation can be employed. Copy number variation analysis is
described in C. Lee et al., "Copy Number Variation and Human Health" in Essentials of
Genomic and Personalized Medicine (G.S. Ginsburg & H.F. Willard, eds., Academic
Press, Amsterdam, 2010), ch. 5, pp. 46-59, incorporated herein by this reference. DNA
methylation analysis is described in S. Cottrell et al., "DNA Methylation Analysis:
Providing New Insight into Human Disease" in Essentials of Genomic and Personalized
                                              99

Medicine (G.S. Ginsburg & H.F. Willard, eds., Academic Press, Amsterdam, 2010), ch.
6, pp. 60-72, incorporated herein by this reference.
        [0199] When the improvement is made by pre/post-treatment preparation, the
pre/post-treatment preparation can be, but is not limited to, a method of pre/post
treatment preparation selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)     the use of colchicine or an analog thereof;
                      (b)     the use of a uricosuric;
                      (c)     the use of uricase;
                      (d)     the non-oral use of nicotinamide;
                      (e)     the use of a sustained-release form of nicotinamide;
                      (f)     the use of an inhibitor of poly-ADP ribose polymerase;
                      (g)     the use of caffeine;
                      (h)     the use of leucovorin rescue;
                      (i)     infection control; and
                      (j)     the use of an anti-hypertensive agent.
        [0200] Uricosurics include, but are not limited to, probenecid, benzbromarone,
and sulfinpyrazone. A particularly preferred uricosuric is probenecid. Uricosurics,
including probenecid, may also have diuretic activity.
        [0201] Poly-ADP ribose polymerase inhibitors are described in G.J. Southan &
C. Szab6, "Poly(ADP-Ribose) Inhibitors," Curr. Med. Chem. 10: 321-240 (2003),
incorporated herein by this reference, and include nicotinamide, 3-aminobenzamide,
substituted 3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-1 (2H)-ones and isoquinolin-1 (2H)-ones,
benzimidazoles, indoles, phthalazin-1(2H)-ones, quinazolinones, isoindolinones,
phenanthridinones, and other compounds.
        [0202] Leucovorin rescue comprises administration of folinic acid (leucovorin) to
patients in which methotrexate has been administered. Leucovorin is a reduced form of
folic acid that bypasses dihydrofolate reductase and restores hematopoietic function.
Leucovorin can be administered either intravenously or orally.
        [0203] In one alternative, wherein the pre/post treatment is the use of a
uricosuric, the uricosuric is probenecid or an analog thereof.
                                              100

       [0204] When the improvement is made by toxicity management, the toxicity
management can be, but is not limited to, a method of toxicity management selected
from the group consisting of:
                       (a)   the use of colchicine or an analog thereof;
                       (b)   the use of a uricosuric;
                       (c)   the use of uricase;
                       (d)   the non-oral use of nicotinamide;
                       (e)   the use of a sustained-release form of nicotinamide;
                       (f)   the use of an inhibitor of poly-ADP ribose polymerase;
                       (g)   the use of caffeine;
                       (h)   the use of leucovorin rescue;
                       (i)   the use of sustained-release allopurinol;
                       (j)   the non-oral use of allopurinol;
                       (k)   the use of bone marrow transplants;
                       (I)   the use of a blood cell stimulant;
                       (m)   the use of blood or platelet infusions;
                       (n)   the administration of an agent selected from the group
consisting of filgrastim (Neupogen@), G-CSF, and GM-CSF;
                       (o)   the application of a pain management technique;
                       (p)   the administration of an anti-inflammatory agent;
                       (q)   the administration of fluids;
                       (r)   the administration of a corticosteroid;
                       (s)   the administration of an insulin control medication;
                       (t)   the administration of an antipyretic;
                       (u)   the administration of an anti-nausea treatment;
                       (v)   the administration of an anti-diarrheal treatment;
                       (w)   the administration of N-acetylcysteine; and
                       (x)   the administration of an antihistamine.
       [0205] Filgrastim is a granulocytic colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) analog
produced by recombinant DNA technology that is used to stimulate the proliferation and
                                             101

differentiation of granulocytes and is used to treat neutropenia; G-CSF can be used in a
similar manner. GM-CSF is granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor and
stimulates stem cells to produce granulocytes (eosinophils, neutrophils, and basophils)
and monocytes; its administration is useful to prevent or treat infection.
        [0206] Anti-inflammatory agents are well known in the art and include
corticosteroids and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs). Corticosteroids
with anti-inflammatory activity include, but are not limited to, hydrocortisone, cortisone,
beclomethasone dipropionate, betamethasone, dexamethasone, prednisone,
methylprednisolone, triamcinolone, fluocinolone acetonide, and fludrocortisone. Non
steroidal anti-inflammatory agents include, but are not limited to, acetylsalicylic acid
(aspirin), sodium salicylate, choline magnesium trisalicylate, salsalate, diflunisal,
sulfasalazine, olsalazine, acetaminophen, indomethacin, sulindac, tolmetin, diclofenac,
ketorolac, ibuprofen, naproxen, flurbiprofen, ketoprofen, fenoprofin, oxaprozin,
mefenamic acid, meclofenamic acid, piroxicam, meloxicam, nabumetone, rofecoxib,
celecoxib, etodolac, nimesulide, aceclofenac, alclofenac, alminoprofen, amfenac,
ampiroxicam, apazone, araprofen, azapropazone, bendazac, benoxaprofen,
benzydamine, bermoprofen, benzpiperylon, bromfenac, bucloxic acid, bumadizone,
butibufen, carprofen, cimicoxib, cinmetacin, cinnoxicam, clidanac, clofezone, clonixin,
clopirac, darbufelone, deracoxib, droxicam, eltenac, enfenamic acid, epirizole,
esflurbiprofen, ethenzamide, etofenamate, etoricoxib, felbinac, fenbufen, fenclofenac,
fenclozic acid, fenclozine, fendosal, fentiazac, feprazone, filenadol, flobufen, florifenine,
flosulide, flubichin methanesulfonate, flufenamic acid, flufenisal, flunixin, flunoxaprofen,
fluprofen, fluproquazone, furofenac, ibufenac, imrecoxib, indoprofen, isofezolac,
isoxepac, isoxicam, licofelone, lobuprofen, lomoxicam, lonazolac, loxaprofen,
lumaricoxib, mabuprofen, miroprofen, mofebutazone, mofezolac, morazone, nepafanac,
niflumic acid, nitrofenac, nitroflurbiprofen, nitronaproxen, orpanoxin, oxaceprol,
oxindanac, oxpinac, oxyphenbutazone, pamicogrel, parcetasal, parecoxib, parsalmide,
pelubiprofen, pemedolac, phenylbutazone, pirazolac, pirprofen, pranoprofen, salicin,
salicylamide, salicylsalicylic acid, satigrel, sudoxicam, suprofen, talmetacin, talniflumate,
tazofelone, tebufelone, tenidap, tenoxicam, tepoxalin, tiaprofenic acid, tiaramide,
                                               102

tilmacoxib, tinoridine, tiopinac, tioxaprofen, tolfenamic acid, triflusal, tropesin, ursolic
acid, valdecoxib, ximoprofen, zaltoprofen, zidometacin, and zomepirac, and the salts,
solvates, analogues, congeners, bioisosteres, hydrolysis products, metabolites,
precursors, and prodrugs thereof.
        [0207] The clinical use of corticosteroids is described in B.P. Schimmer & K.L.
Parker, "Adrenocorticotropic Hormone; Adrenocortical Steroids and Their Synthetic
Analogs; Inhibitors of the Synthesis and Actions of Adrenocortical Hormones" in
Goodman & Gilman's The Pharmacoloqical Basis of Therapeutics (L.L. Brunton, ed.,
1 1th ed., McGraw-Hill, New York, 2006), ch. 59, pp. 1587-1612, incorporated herein by
this reference.
        [0208] Anti-nausea treatments include, but are not limited to, ondansetron,
metoclopramide, promethazine, cyclizine, hyoscine, dronabinol, dimenhydrinate,
diphenhydramine, hydroxyzine, medizine, dolasetron, granisetron, palonosetron,
ramosetron, domperidone, haloperidol, chlorpromazine, fluphenazine, perphenazine,
prochlorperazine, betamethasone, dexamethasone, lorazepam, and thiethylperazine.
        [0209] Anti-diarrheal treatments include, but are not limited to, diphenoxylate,
difenoxin, loperamide, codeine, racecadotril, octreoside, and berberine.
        [0210] N-acetylcysteine is an antioxidant and mucolytic that also provides
biologically accessible sulfur.
        [0211] When the improvement is made by pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic
monitoring, the pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic monitoring can be, but is not limited
to a method selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)     multiple determinations of blood plasma levels; and
                      (b)     multiple determinations of at least one metabolite in blood or
urine.
        [0212] Typically, determination of blood plasma levels or determination of at
least one metabolite in blood or urine is carried out by immunoassays. Methods for
performing immunoassays are well known in the art, and include radioimmunoassay,
ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay), competitive immunoassay,
immunoassay employing lateral flow test strips, and other assay methods.
                                              103

Immunoassays can be sandwich or competitive immunoassays. In another alternative,
the determination of plasma levels of meisoindigo can be determined by liquid
chromatograpy-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). The use of LC-MS is well known in the art
and is described in M.S. Lee & E.H. Kerns, "LC/MS Applications in Drug Development,"
Mass Spectrometry Rev. 18: 187-279 (1999), incorporated herein by this reference.
       [0213] When the improvement is made by drug combination, the drug
combination can be, but is not limited to, a drug combination selected from the group
consisting of:
                    (a)    use with topoisomerase inhibitors;
                    (b)    use with fraudulent nucleosides;
                    (c)    use with fraudulent nucleotides;
                    (d)    use with thymidylate synthetase inhibitors;
                    (e)    use with signal transduction inhibitors;
                    (f)    use with cisplatin or platinum analogs;
                    (g)    use with alkylating agents;
                    (h)    use with anti-tubulin agents;
                    (i)    use with antimetabolites;
                    (j)    use with berberine;
                    (k)    use with apigenin;
                    (I)    use with amonafide;
                    (m)    use with colchicine or an analog thereof;
                    (n)    use with genistein;
                    (o)    use with etoposide;
                    (p)    use with cytarabine;
                    (q)    use with a camptothecin;
                    (r)    use with a vinca alkaloid;
                    (s)    use with 5-fluorouracil;
                    (t)    use with curcumin;
                    (u)    use with an NF-KB inhibitor;
                    (v)    use with rosmarinic acid;
                                            104

                      (w)  use with mitoguazone;
                      (x)  use with tetandrine;
                      (y)  use with an antineoplastic agent not metabolized by
cytochrome P450 CYP 1A2 or CYP 2C19;
                      (z)  use with a biological therapy;
                      (aa) use with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor;
                      (ab) use with all-trans-retinoic acid;
                      (ac) use with an arsenical;
                      (ad) use with hydroxyurea;
                      (ae) use with thioguanine;
                      (af) use with mercaptopurine;
                      (ag) use with homoharringtonine;
                      (ah) use with oridonin;
                      (aj) use with uracil mustard;
                      (ak) use with nilotinib;
                      (al) use with dasatinib;
                      (am) use with lonidamine;
                      (an) use with 5-azacytidine;
                      (ao) use with thalidomide or an analog thereof;
                      (ap) use with an EGFR inhibitor such as erlotinib, afatinib,
lapatinib, or dacomitinib;
                      (aq) use with a gold salt such as aurothiomalate or
aurothioglucose;
                      (ar) use with dibromodulcitol;
                      (as) use with dianhydrogalactitol;
                      (at) use with decitabine; and
                      (au) use with a proteasome inhibitor.
        [0214] Topoisomerase inhibitors include, but are not limited to, irinotecan,
topotecan, camptothecin, lamellarin D, amsacrine, etoposide, etoposide phosphate,
teniposide, doxorubicin, and ICRF-193.
                                            105

         [0215] Fraudulent nucleosides include, but are not limited to, cytosine
arabinoside, gemcitabine, and fludarabine; other fraudulent nucleosides are known in
the art.
         [0216] Fraudulent nucleotides include, but are not limited to, tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate and adefovir dipivoxil; other fraudulent nucleotides are known in the art.
         [0217] Thymidylate synthetase inhibitors include, but are not limited to,
raltitrexed, pemetrexed, nolatrexed, ZD9331, GS7094L, fluorouracil, and BGC 945.
         [0218] Signal transduction inhibitors are described in A.V. Lee et al., "New
Mechanisms of Signal Transduction Inhibitor Action: Receptor Tyrosine Kinase Down
Regulation and Blockade of Signal Transactivation," Clin. Cancer Res. 9: 516s (2003),
incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference.
         [0219] Cisplatin or platinum analogs include, but are not limited to, cisplatin,
oxaliplatin, satraplatin, and carboplatin.
         [0220] Alkylating agents include, but are not limited to, Shionogi 254-S, aldo
phosphamide analogues, altretamine, anaxirone, Boehringer Mannheim BBR-2207,
bendamustine, bestrabucil, budotitane, Wakunaga CA-1 02, carboplatin, carmustine,
Chinoin-1 39, Chinoin-153, chlorambucil, cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, American
Cyanamid CL-286558, Sanofi CY-233, cyplatate, Degussa D-19-384, Sumimoto
DACHP(Myr) 2, diphenylspiromustine, diplatinum cytostatic, Erba distamycin derivatives,
Chugai DWA-2114R, ITI E09, elmustine, Erbamont FCE-24517, estramustine
phosphate sodium, fotemustine, Unimed G-6-M, Chinoin GYKI-17230, hepsul-fam,
ifosfamide, iproplatin, lomustine, mafosfamide, melphalan, mitolactol, Nippon Kayaku
NK-121, NCI NSC-264395, NCI NSC-342215, oxaliplatin, Upjohn PCNU,
prednimustine, Proter PTT-1 19, ranimustine, semustine, SmithKline SK&F-1 01772,
Yakult Honsha SN-22, spiromustine, Tanabe Seiyaku TA-077, tauromustine,
temozolomide, teroxirone, tetraplatin and trimelamol, as described in United States
Patent No. 7,446,122 by Chao et al., incorporated herein by this reference.
         [0221] Anti-tubulin agents include, but are not limited to, vinca alkaloids,
taxanes, podophyllotoxin, halichondrin B, and homohalichondrin B.
                                              106

        [0222] Antimetabolites include, but are not limited to: methotrexate, pemetrexed,
5-fluorouracil, capecitabine, cytarabine, gemcitabine, 6-mercaptopurine, and
pentostatin, alanosine, AG2037 (Pfizer), 5-FU-fibrinogen, acanthifolic acid,
aminothiadiazole, brequinar sodium, carmofur, Ciba-Geigy CGP-30694, cyclopentyl
cytosine, cytarabine phosphate stearate, cytarabine conjugates, Lilly DATHF, Merrill
Dow DDFC, deazaguanine, dideoxycytidine, dideoxyguanosine, didox, Yoshitomi
DMDC, doxifluridine, Wellcome EHNA, Merck & Co. EX-015, fazarabine, floxuridine,
fludarabine phosphate, N-(2'-furanidyl)-5-fluorouracil, Daiichi Seiyaku FO-152, isopropyl
pyrrolizine, Lilly LY-1 88011, Lilly LY-264618, methobenzaprim, methotrexate, Wellcome
MZPES, norspermidine, NCI NSC-127716, NCI NSC-264880, NCI NSC-39661, NCI
NSC-612567, Warner-Lambert PALA, piritrexim, plicamycin, Asahi Chemical PL-AC,
Takeda TAC-788, thioguanine, tiazofurin, Erbamont TIF, trimetrexate, tyrosine kinase
inhibitors, tyrosine protein kinase inhibitors, Taiho UFT and uricytin.
        [0223] Berberine has antibiotic activity and prevents and suppresses the
expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and E-selectin, as well as increasing
adiponectin expression.
        [0224] Apigenin is a flavone that can reverse the adverse effects of cyclosporine
and has chemoprotective activity, either alone or derivatized with a sugar.
        [0225] Amonafide is a topoisomerase inhibitor and DNA intercalator that has
anti-neoplastic activity.
        [0226] Curcumin is believed to have anti-neoplastic, anti-inflammatory,
antioxidant, anti-ischemic, anti-arthritic, and anti-amyloid properties and also has
hepatoprotective activity.
        [0227] NF-KB inhibitors include, but are not limited to, bortezomib.
        [0228] Rosmarinic acid is a naturally-occurring phenolic antioxidant that also has
anti-inflammatory activity.
        [0229] Mitoguazone is an inhibitor of polyamine biosynthesis through
competitive inhibition of S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase.
        [0230] Tetrandrine has the chemical structure 6,6',7,12-tetramethoxy-2,2'
dimethyl-1 P-berbaman and is a calcium channel blocker that has anti-inflammatory,
                                              107

immunologic, and antiallergenic effects, as well as an anti-arrhythmic effect similar to
that of quinidine. It has been isolated from Stephania tetranda and other Asian herbs.
        [0231] Etoposide is an antineoplastic agent that forms a ternary complex with
DNA and the enzyme topoisomerase 11and thereby prevents religation of the DNA
strands and causes DNA strand breakage. This causes errors in DNA synthesis and
promotes apoptosis of the cancer cells.
        [0232] Cytarabine (cytosine arabinoside) is an antimetabolite that interferes with
DNA synthesis in cancer cells when converted to its triphosphate, cytosine arabinoside
triphosphate.
        [0233] Camptothecins include, but are not limited to, camptothecin, topotecan,
and irinotecan. Other camptothecins include DB 67, BNP 1350, exatecan, lurtotecan,
ST 1481, and CKD 602. The activity of camptothecins is described in H. Ulukan & P.W.
Swaan, "Camptothecins, a Review of Their Chemotherapeutical Potential," Druqs 62:
2039-2057 (2002), incorporated herein by this reference.
        [0234] Vinca alkaloids include, but are not limited to, vinblastine, vincristine,
vinorelbine, and vindesine.
        [0235] 5-Fluorouracil is a pyrimidine analog that acts by inhibiting the enzyme
thymidylate synthase and thus prevents the synthesis of thymidine.
        [0236] Oridonin is a diterpenoid purified from Rabdosia rubescens and inhibits
proliferation of cells from lymphoid malignancies; its primary action appears to be
blockage of the NF-KB signal pathway; its activity is described in T. Ikezoe et al.,
"Oridonin, a Diterpenoid Purified from Rabdosia rubescens, Inhibits the Proliferation of
Cells from Lymphoid Malignancies in Association with Blockade of the NF-KB Signal
Pathways," Mol. Cancer Ther. 4: 578-586 (2005), incorporated herein by this reference.
        [0237] Nilotinib and dasatinib are tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
        [0238] Lonidamine (1-(2,4-dichlorobenzyl)-1 H-indazole-3-carboxylic acid) is an
aerobic glycolysis inhibitor in cancer cells; its activity is described in H. Pelicano et al.,
"Glycolysis Inhibition for Anticancer Treatment," Oncoqene 25: 4633-4646 (2006),
incorporated herein by this reference.
                                              108

        [0239] 5-Azacytidine inhibits DNA methyltransferase and can be incorporated
directly into RNA and DNA, causing cell death.
        [0240] Thalidomide, and its analogs lenalidomide and pomalidomide, inhibit
myeloma cells by a number of mechanisms, including inhibition of angiogenesis,
inhibition of production of interleukin-6, activation of apoptotic pathways through
caspase-8-mediated cell death, and other mechanisms. The antineoplastic activity of
thalidomide is described in W.D. Figg et al., "A Randomized Phase II Trial of
Thalidomide, an Angiogenesis Inhibitor, in Patients with Androgen-Independent
Prostate Cancer," Clin. Cancer Res. 7: 1888-1893 (2001), incorporated herein by this
reference.
        [0241] Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors include, but are not
limited to, erlotinib, afatinib, lapatinib, and dacomitinib. Other EGFR inhibitors are
known in the art.
        [0242] Hydroxyurea is an antineoplastic agent that may act by inhibiting the
enzyme ribonucleotide reductase and also may induce double-stranded DNA breaks.
        [0243] Thioguanine is a purine analog of guanine and is incorporated into DNA,
as well as inhibition of the GTP-binding protein Rac1.
        [0244] Mercaptopurine inhibits purine nucleotide synthesis and metabolism by
inhibiting the enzyme phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate amidotransferase.
        [0245] Gold salts, including, but not limited to, aurothiomalate or
aurothioglucose, act as inhibitors of lymphocyte proliferation.
        [0246] Decitabine (5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine) is an agent that inhibits DNA
methyltransferase and acts in a similar manner to 5-azacytidine.
        [0247] Proteasome inhibitors include, but are not limited to, bortezomib. Other
proteasome inhibitors are known in the art, including disulfiram, epigallocatechin-3
gallate, salinosporamide A, carfilzomib, oprozomib, delanzomib, MLN9708 (4
(carboxymethyl)-2-((R)-1 -(2-(2,5-dichlorobenzamido)acetamido)-3-methylbutyl)-6-oxo
1,3,2-dioxaborinane-4-carboxylic acid), epoxomicin, and MG132 (N
(benzyloxycarbonyl)leucinylleucinylleucinal-Z-Leu-Leu-Leu-al).
                                                109

         [0248] United States Patent Application Publication No. 2010/0069458 by Atadja
et al., incorporated herein by this reference discloses the use of the following additional
therapeutic agents, which can be used together with indirubin analogs and derivatives:
               (1) ACE inhibitors, including, but not limited to, benazepril, enazepril,
captopril, enalapril, fosinopril, lisinopril, moexipril, quinapril, ramipril, perindopril and
trandolapril;
               (2) adenosine kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, 5
iodotubericidin;
               (3) adrenal cortex antagonists, including, but not limited to, mitotane;
               (4) AKT pathway inhibitors (protein kinase B inhibitors) including, but not
limited to, deguelin and 1,5-dihydro-5-methyl-1-p-D-ribofuranosyl-1,4,5,6,8
pentaazaacenaphthylen-3-amine;
               (5) angiogenesis inhibitors, including, but not limited to, fumagillin,
Shikonin, Tranilast, ursolic acid; suramin; thalidomide, lenalidomide; phthalazines,
including, but not limited to, 1-(4-chloroanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(4
methylanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(3-chloroanilino)-4-(4
pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-anilino-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-benzylamino-4-(4
pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(4-methoxyanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(3
benzyloxyanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(3-methoxyanilino)-4-(4
pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, I-(2-Methoxyanilino}-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(4
trifluoromethylanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(4-fluoroanilino)-4-(4
pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(3-hydroxyanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(4
hydroxyanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(3-aminoanilino)-4-(4
pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(3,4-dichloroanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(4
bromoanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(3-chloro-4-methoxyanilino)-4-(4
pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(4-cyanoanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(3
chloro-4-fluoroanilino)-4-(4-pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, 1-(3-methylanilino)-4-(4
pyridylmethyl)phthalazine, and other phthalazines disclosed in PCT Patent Application
Publication No. WO 98/035958 by Bold et al., incorporated herein in its entirety by this
reference, isoquinolines disclosed in PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO
                                                110

00/09495 by Altmann et al., incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference,
including 1-(3,5-dimethylanilino)-4-(pyridin-4-ylmethyl)-isoquinoline; phthalazines
disclosed in PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO 00/59509 by Bold et al.,
incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference, including E-1-(3-methylanilino)-4-[(2
(pyridin-3-yl)vinyl]phthalazine, Z-1-(3-methylanilino)-4-[(2-(pyridin-3-yl)vinyl]phthalazine,
1-(3-methylanilino)-4-[(2-(pyridin-3-yl)ethyl]phthalazine, 1-(3-methylanilino)-4-[{2
(pyridin-4-yl)vinyl]phthalazine, 1-(4-chloro-3-trifluoromethylanilino)-4-[(2-(pyridin-3
yl)ethyl]phthalazine, 1-(4-chloroanilino)-4-[(2-(pyridin-3-yl)ethyl]phthalazine, 1-(3
chlorobenzylamino)-4-[(2-(pyridin-3-yl)ethyl]phthalazine, 1-(4-chloro-3
trifluoromethylanilino)-4-[3-(pyridin-3-yl)propyl]phthalazine, 1-(4-chloroanilino)-4-[3
(pyridin-3-yl)propyl]phthalazine, 1-(3-chloro-5-trifluoromethylanilino)-4-[3-(pyridin-3
yl)propyl]phthalazine, and 1-(4-tert-butylanilino)-4-[3-(pyridin-3-yl)propyl]phthalazine;
and monoclonal antibodies;
               (6) angiostatic steroids, including, but not limited to, anecortave,
triamcinolone, hydrocortisone, 11 a-epihydrocotisol, cortexolone, 17a
hydroxyprogesterone, corticosterone, desoxycorticosterone, testosterone, estrone, and
dexamethasone;
               (7) anti-androgens, including, but not limited to, nilutamide and
bicalutamide;
               (8) anti-estrogens, including, but not limited to, toremifene, letrozole,
testolactone, anastrozole, bicalutamide, flutamide, exemestane, tamoxifen, fulvestrant,
and raloxifene;
               (9) anti-hypercalcemia agents, including, but not limited to, gallium (111)
nitrate hydrate and pamidronate disodium;
               (10) apoptosis inducers, including, but not limited to, 2-[[3-(2,3
dichlorophenoxy)propyl]amino]-ethanol, gambogic acid, embellin, and arsenic trioxide;
               (11)  ATI receptor antagonists, including, but not limited to, valsartan;
               (12) aurora kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, binucleine 2;
               (13) aromatase inhibitors, including, but not limited to: (a) steroids,
including, but not limited to, atamestane, exemestane, and formestane; and (b) non
                                              111

steroids, including, but not limited to, aminoglutethimide, roglethimide,
pyridoglutethimide, trilostane, testolactone, ketokonazole, vorozole, fadrozole,
anastrozole, and letrozole;
                (14) bisphosphonates, including, but not limited to, etidronic acid,
clodronic acid, tiludronic acid, alendronic acid, ibandronic acid, risedronic acid, and
zoledronic acid;
                (15) Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, terreic
acid;
                (16) calcineurin inhibitors, including, but not limited to, cypermethrin,
deltamethrin, fenvalerate, and tyrphostin 8;
                (17) CaM kinase II inhibitors, including, but not limited to, the 5
isoquinolinesulfonic acid 4-[(2S)-2-[(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)methylamino]-3-oxo-3-(4
phenyl-1-piperazinyl)propyl]phenyl ester, and N-[2-[[[3-(4-chlorophenyl)-2
propenyl]methyl]am ino]methyl]phenyl]-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-4-methoxy
benzenesulfonamide;
                (18) CD45 tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
[[2-(4-bromophenoxy)-5-nitrophenyl]hydroxymethyl]-phosphonic acid;
                (19) CDC25 phosphatase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, 2,3
bis[(2-hydroyethyl)thio]-1,4-naphthalenedione;
                (20) CHK kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
debromohymenialdisine;
                (21) compounds targeting/decreasing a protein or lipid kinase activity; or
a protein or lipid phosphatase activity; or further anti-angiogenic compounds, including,
but not limited to, protein tyrosine kinase and/or serine and/or threonine kinase
inhibitors or lipid kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to:
                       (a) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the
vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR) or of vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF), including, but not limited to, 7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine derivatives,
including: [6-[4-(4-ethyl-piperazine-1-ylmethyl)-phenyl]-7H-pyrrolo[2,3
d]pyrimidinpyrimidin-4-yl]-(R)-1 -phenyl-ethyl)-amine (known as AEE788), BAY 43-9006;
                                               112

and isoquinoline compounds disclosed in PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO
00/09495, such as (4-tert-butyl-phenyl)-94-pyridin-4-ylmethyl-isoquinolin-1-yl)-amine;
                      (b) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the
platelet-derived growth factor-receptor (PDGFR), including, but not limited to: N-phenyl
2-pyrimidine-amine derivatives, e.g., imatinib, SU 01, SU6668 and GFB-1 11;
                      (c) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the
fibroblast growth factor-receptor (FGFR);
                      (d) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the
insulin-like growth factor receptor 1 (IGF-1 R), including, but not limited to: the
compounds disclosed in WO 02/092599 and derivatives thereof of 4-amino-5-phenyl-7
cyclobutyl-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine derivatives;
                      (e) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the
Trk receptor tyrosine kinase family;
                      (f) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the
Axl receptor tyrosine kinase family;
                      (g) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the
c-Met receptor;
                      (h) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the
Ret receptor tyrosine kinase;
                      (i) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the
Kit/SCFR receptor tyrosine kinase;
                      (j) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the
C-kit receptor tyrosine kinases, including, but not limited to, imatinib;
                      (k) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of
members of the c-Abl family and their gene-fusion products, e.g., BCR-Abl kinase, such
as N-phenyl-2-pyrimidine-amine derivatives, including, but not limited to: imatinib, 6
(2,6-d ichlorophenyl)-2-[(4-fluoro-3-methylphenyl)am ino]-8-methyl-pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimid in
7(8H)-one (PD180970), methyl-4-[N-(2',5'-dihydroxybenzyl)amino]benzoate (Tyrphostin
AG957), 4-[[(2,5-dihydroxyphenyl)methyl]amino]benzoic acid tricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]dec-1-yl
                                             113

ester (adaphostin or NSC 680410), 6-(2,6-dichlorophenyl)-8-methyl-2-(3
methylsulfanylanilino)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-7-one (PD173955), and desatinib;
                       (I) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of
members of the protein kinase C (PKC) and Raf family of serine/threonine kinases,
members of the MEK, SRC, JAK, FAK, PDK and Ras/MAPK family members, or PI(3)
kinase family, or of the PI(3)-kinase-related kinase family, and/or members of the cyclin
dependent kinase family (CDK) and are especially those staurosporine derivatives
disclosed in United States Patent No. 5,093,330, such as, but not limited to,
midostaurin; examples of further compounds include, e.g., UCN-01; safingol, sorafenib,
Bryostatin 1; Perifosine; Ilmofosine; 3-[3-[2,5-Dihydro-4-(1 -methyl-1 H-indol-3-yl)-2,5
dioxo-1 H-pyrrol-3-yl]-1 H-indol-1 -yl]propyl carbamimidothioic acid ester (RO 318220), 3
[(8 S)-8-[(dimethylamino)methyl]-6,7,8,9-tetrahydropyrido[1 ,2-a]indol-1 0-yl]-4-(1 -methyl
1H-indol-3-yl)-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione (RO 320432), 12-(2-cyanoethyl)-6,7,12,13
tetrahydro-1 3-methyl-5-oxo-5H-indolo[2,3-a]pyrrolo[3,4-c]carbazole (GO 6976); Isis
3521; (S)-1 3-[(dimethylamino)methyl]-1 0,11,1 4,15-tetrahydro-4,9:16, 21 -dimetheno-1 H,
13H-dibenzo[e,k]pyrrolo[3,4-h][1,4,13]oxadiazacy clohexadecene-1,3(2H)-dione
(LY333531), LY379196; isoquinoline compounds, such as those disclosed in PCT
Patent Application Publication No. WO 00/09495; farnesyltransferase inhibitors,
including, but not limited to, tipifarnib and lonafarnib; 2-(2-chloro-4-iodo-phenylamino)
N-cyclopropylmethoxy-3,4-difluoro-benzamide (PD184352); and QAN697, a P13K
inhibitor;
                       (m) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of
protein-tyrosine kinase, such as, but not limited to, imatinib mesylate, a tyrphostin,
pyrymidylaminobenzamide and derivatives thereof; a tyrphostin is preferably a low
molecular weight (Mr < 1500) compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
especially a compound selected from the benzylidenemalonitrile class or the S
arylbenzenemalonirile or bisubstrate quinoline class of compounds, more especially any
compound selected from the group consisting of Tyrphostin A23/RG-50810, Tyrphostin
AG 99, Tyrphostin AG 213, Tyrphostin AG 1748, Tyrphostin AG 490, Tyrphostin B44,
Tyrphostin B44 (+) enantiomer, Tyrphostin AG 555, AG 494, Tyrphostin AG 556;
                                               114

Tyrphostin AG957, and adaphostin (4-{[(2,5-dihydroxyphenyl)methyl]amino}-benzoic
acid adamantyl ester or NSC 680410);
                      (n) compounds targeting, decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the
epidermal growth factor family of receptor tyrosine kinases (EGFR, ErbB2, ErbB3,
ErbB4 as homodimers or heterodimers), such as, but not limited to, those compounds,
proteins or monoclonal antibodies generically and specifically disclosed in PCT Patent
Application Publication No. WO 97/02266 by Traxler et al. such as (R)-6-(4
hydroxyphenyl)-4-[(1-phenylethyl)-amino]-7H-pyrrolo-[2,3-d]pyrimidine, or in European
Patent Application Publication No. EP 0564409 by Zimmermann, PCT Patent
Application Publication No. WO 99/03854 by Zimmermann et al., European Patent
Application Publication No. EP 0520722 by Barker et al., European Patent Application
Publication No. EP 0566226 by Barker et al., European Patent Application Publication
EP 0787722 by Wissner et al., European Patent Application Publication EP 0837063 by
Arnold et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,747,498 by Schnur et al., PCT Patent Application
Publication WO 98/10767 by McMahon et al., PCT Patent Application Publication WO
97/30034 by Barker, PCT Patent Application Publication WO 97/49688 by Schnur, PCT
Patent Application Publication WO 97/38983 by Bridges et al., PCT Patent Application
Publication WO 96/30347 by Schnur et al., including, but not limited to, N-(3
ethylnylphenyl)-6,7-bis(2-methoxyethoxy)-4-quinazolinamine (CP 358774 or erlotinib),
PCT Patent Application Publication WO 96/33980 by Gibson et al., including, but not
limited to, N-(3-chloro-4-fluoro-phenyl)-7-methoxy-6-(3-morpholin-4
ylpropoxy)quinazolin-4-amine (gefitinib); and PCT Patent Application Publication WO
95/03283 by Barker et al., including, but not limited to, compound 6-amino-4-(3
methylphenyl-amino)-quinazoline (ZM105180); monoclonal antibodies, including, but
not limited to trastuzumab and cetuximab; and other small molecule inhibitors, including,
but not limited to: canertinib, pelitinib, lapatinib, and 7H-pyrrolo-[2,3-d]pyrimidine
derivatives which are disclosed in PCT Patent Application Publication WO 03/013541 by
Bold et al.;
               (22) compounds which target, decrease or inhibit the activity of a protein
or lipid phosphatase, including, but not limited to, inhibitors of phosphatase 1,
                                                115

phosphatase 2A, PTEN or CDC25, such as, but not limited to okadaic acid or a
derivative thereof;
               (23) compounds which induce cell differentiation processes, including, but
not limited to, retinoic acid, a-tocopherol, y-tocopherol, 6-tocopherol, a-tocotrienol, y
tocotrienol,, and 6-tocotrienol;
               (24) cRAF kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, 3-(3,5-dibromo
4-hydroxybenzylidene)-5-iodo-1,3-dihydroindol-2-one and 3-(dimethylamino)-N-[3-[(4
hydroxybenzoyl)am ino]-4-methylphenyl]-benzam ide;
               (25) cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, N9
isopropyl-olomoucine; olomoucine; purvalanol B, roascovitine, kenpaullone, and
purvalanol A;
               (26) cysteine protease inhibitors, including, but not limited to, N-[(1S)-3
fluoro-2-oxo-1 -(2-phenyl]ethyl)propyl]amino]-2-oxo-1 -(phenylmethyl)ethyl]-4
morpholinecarboxamide;
               (27) DNA intercalators, including, but not limited to, plicamycin and
dactinomycin;
               (28) DNA strand breakers, including, but not limited to, bleomycin;
               (29) E3 ligase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, N-((3,3,3-trifluoro-2
trifluoromethyl)propionyl)sulfanilamide;
               (30) EDG binders, including, but not limited to, FTY720;
               (31)  endocrine hormones, including, but not limited to, leuprolide and
megestrol acetate;
               (32) farnesyltransferase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, a
hydroxyfarnesylphosphonic acid, 2-[[(2S)-2-[[(2S,3S)-2-[[(2R)-2-amino-3
mercaptopropyl]amino]-3-methylpentyl]oxy]-1 -oxo-3-phenylpropyl]amino]-4
(methylsulfonyl)-, 1-methylethyl butanoic acid ester (2S), and manumycin A;
               (33) Flk-1 kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, 2-cyano-3-[4
hydroxy-3,5-bis(1 -methylethyl)phenyl]-N-(3-phenylpropyl)-,(2-E)-2-propenamide;
                                              116

               (34) Flt-3 inhibitors, including, but not limited to, N-benzoyl-staurosporine,
midostaurin, and N-(2-diethylaminoethyl)-5-[(Z)-(5-fluoro-2-oxo-1 H-indol-3
ylidene)methyl]-2,4-dimethyl-1 H-pyrrole-3-carboxamide (sunitinib);
               (35) gonadorelin agonists, including, but not limited to, abarelix, goserelin,
and goserelin acetate;
               (36) heparanase inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
phosphomannopentaose sulfate (PI-88);
               (37) histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
compounds disclosed in PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO 02/22577 by Bair
et al., including, but not limited to, N-hydroxy-3-[4-[[(2-hydroxyethyl)[2-(1 H-indol-3
yl)ethyl]-amino]methyl]phenyl]-2E-2-propenamide, suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, 4
(2-amino-phenylcarbamoyl)-benzyl]-carbamic acid pyridine-3-ylmethyl ester and
derivatives thereof, butyric acid, pyroxamide, trichostatin A, oxamflatin, apicidin,
depsipeptide, depudecin, trapoxin, HC toxin, and sodium phenylbutyrate;
               (38) HSP90 inhibitors, including, but not limited to: 17-allylamino,17
demethoxygeldanamycin (17AAG); a geldanamycin derivative; other geldanamycin
related compounds; radicicol; and 5-(2,4-dihydroxy-5-isopropyl-phenyl)-4-(4-morpholin
4-ylmethyl-phenyl)-isoxazole-3-carboxylic acid ethylamide;
               (39) IKBa inhibitors (IKKs), including, but not limited to, 3-[(4
methylphenyl)sulfonyl]-(2E)-2-propenen itrile;
               (40) insulin receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited
to, hydroxy-2-naphthalenylmethylphosphonic acid;
               (41) c-Jun N-terminal kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
pyrazoleanthrone and epigallocatechin gallate;
               (42) microtubule binding agents, including, but not limited to: vinblastine
sulfate; vincristine sulfate; vindesine; vinorelbine; docetaxel; paclitaxel; discodermolides;
colchicines; and epothilones and derivatives thereof, such as epothilone B or a
derivative thereof;
                                              117

                (43) mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase inhibitors, including, but not
limited to, N-[2-[[[3-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-propenyl]methyl]amino]methyl]phenyl]-N-(2
hydroxyethyl)-4-methoxy-benzenesulfonamide;
                (44) MDM2 inhibitors, including, but not limited to, trans-4-iodo,4'-boranyl
chalcone;
                (45) MEK inhibitors, including, but not limited to, bis[amino[2
aminophenyl)thio]methylene]-butanedinitrile;
                (46) methionine aminopeptidase inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
bengamide and derivatives thereof;
                (47) MMP inhibitors, including, but not limited to: actinonin;
epigallocatechin gallate; collagen peptidomimetic and non-peptidomimetic inhibitors;
tetracycline derivatives such as hydroxamate, batimastat, marimastat, primomastat,
TAA21 1, N-hydroxy-2(R)-[[(4-methoxyphenyl)sulfonyl](3-picolyl)amino]-3
methylbutanamide hydrochloride (MM1270B), and AAJ996;
                (48) NGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
Tyrphostin AG 879;
                (49) p38 MAP kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, 3
(dimethylamino)-N-[3-[(4-hydroxybenzoyl)amino]-4-methylphenyl]-benzamide;
                (50) p56 tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, 9,10
dihydro-3-hydroxy-1-methoxy-9,10-dioxo-2-anthracenecarboxaldehyde and Tyrphostin
46;
                (51)  PDGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
Tyrphostin AG 1296; Tyrphostin 9, 2-amino-4-(1 H-indol-5-yl)-1,3-butadiene-1,1,3
tricarbonitrile, and imatinib;
                (52) phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
wortmannin and quercetin dihydrate;
                (53) phosphatase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, cantharidic acid,
cantharidin, and (E)- N-[4-(2-carboxyethenyl)benzoyl]glycyl-L-a-glutamyl-L-leucinamide;
                (54) platinum agents, including, but not limited to, carboplatin, cisplatin,
oxaliplatin, satraplatin, and ZD0473;
                                             118

               (55) protein phosphatase inhibitors, including, but not limited to:
                      (a) PP1 and PP2A inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
cantharidic acid and cantharidin; and
                      (b) tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, L
P-bromotetramisole oxalate, benzylphosphonic acid, and (5R)-4-hydroxy-5
(hydroxymethyl)-3-(1 -oxohexadecyl)-2(5H)-furanone;
               (56) PKC inhibitors, including, but not limited to, -[1-[3
(dimethylamino)propyl]-1 H-indol-3-yl]-4-(1 H-indol-3-yl)-1 H-pyrrolo-2,5-dione,
sphingosine, staurosporine, Tyrphostin 51, and hypericin;
               (57) PKC delta kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, rottlerin;
               (58) polyamine synthesis inhibitors, including, but not limited to, (RS)-2,5
diamino-2-(difluoromethyl)pentanoic acid (DMFO);
               (59) proteasome inhibitors, including, but not limited to, aclacinomycin A,
gliotoxin, and bortezomib;
               (60) PTP1 B inhibitors, including, but not limited to, (E)-N-[4-(2
carboxyethenyl)benzoyl]glycyl-L-a-glutamyl-L-leucinamide;
               (61) protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to:
Tyrphostin AG 126; Tyrphostin AG 1288; Tyrphostin AG 1295; geldanamycin; and
genistein;
               (62) SRC family tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, 1
(1,1-dimethylethyl)-3-(1-naphthalenyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-4-amine, and 3-(4
chlorophenyl)-1 -(1,1 -dimethylethyl)-1 H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-4-amine;
               (63) Syk tyrosine kinase inhibitors including, but not limited to,
piceatannol;
               (64) Janus (JAK-2 and/or JAK-3) tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including, but
not limited to, Tyrphostin AG 490, and 2-naphthyl vinyl ketone;
               (65) inhibitors of Ras oncogenic isoforms, including, but not limited to,
(2S)-2-[[(2S)-2-[(2S,3S)-2-[(2R)-2-am ino-3-mercaptopropyl]am ino]-3-methylpentyl]oxy]
1-oxo-3-phenylpropyl]amino]-4-(methylsulfonyl)-butanoic acid 1-methylethyl ester (L
744832), DK8G557, and tipifarnib;
                                             119

               (66) retinoids, including, but not limited to, isotretinoin and tretinoin;
               (67) ribonucleotide reductase inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
hydroxyurea and 2-hydroxy-1 H-isoindole-1,3-dione;
               (68) RNA polymerase II elongation inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
5,6-dichloro-1 -beta-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole;
               (69) S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase inhibitors, including, but not
limited to, 5-amidino-1 -tetralone-2'-amidinohydrazone and other compounds disclosed
in United States Patent No. 5,461,076 to Stanek et al., incorporated herein by this
reference;
               (70) serine/threonine kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
sorafenib and 2-aminopurine;
               (71) compounds which target, decrease, or inhibit the activity or function
of serine/threonine mTOR kinase, including, but not limited to, everolimus, temsirolimus,
zotarolimus, rapamycin, derivatives and analogs of rapamycin, deforolimus, AP23841,
sirolimus, and everolimus;
               (72) somatostatin receptor antagonists, including, but not limited to,
octreotide and pasireotide (SOM230);
               (73) sterol biosynthesis inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
terbinadine;
               (74) telomerase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, telomestatin; and
               (75) topoisomerase inhibitors, including, but not limited to:
                      (a) topoisomerase I inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
topotecan, gimatecan, irinotecan, camptothecin and its analogues, 9-nitrocamptothecin
and the macromolecular camptothecin conjugate PNU-16614, macromolecular
camptothecin conjugates described in PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO
99/17804 by Angelucci et al., 10-hydroxycamptothecin acetate salt, etoposide idarubicin
hydrochloride, teniposide, doxorubicin; epirubicin hydrochloride, mitoxantrone
hydrochloride, and daunorubicin hydrochloride; and
                      (b) topoisomerase II inhibitors, including, but not limited to,
anthracyclines, such as doxorubicin, including liposomal formulations thereof,
                                              120

daunorubicin, including liposomal formulations thereof, epirubicin, idarubicin,
nemorubicin, mitoxantrone, losoxantrone, etoposide, and eniposide;
               (76) VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including, but not limited to, 3-(4
dimethylaminobenzylidenyl)-2-indolinone; and
               (77) RANKL inhibitors, including, but not limited to, denosumab.
       [0249] In one alternative, when the drug combination is use with an alkylating
agent, the alkylating agent can be selected from the group consisting of BCNU, BCNU
wafers (Gliadel), and CCNU.
       [0250] When the improvement is made by chemosensitization, the
chemosensitization can comprise, but is not limited to, the use of indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin as a chemosensitizer in
combination with an agent selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)     topoisomerase inhibitors;
                      (b)     fraudulent nucleosides;
                      (c)     fraudulent nucleotides;
                      (d)     thymidylate synthetase inhibitors;
                      (e)     signal transduction inhibitors;
                      (f)     cisplatin or platinum analogs;
                      (g)     alkylating agents;
                      (h)     anti-tubulin agents;
                      (i)     antimetabolites;
                      (j)     berberine;
                      (k)     apigenin;
                      (I)     amonafide;
                      (m)     vinca alkaloids;
                      (n)     5-fluorouracil;
                      (o)     curcumin;
                      (p)     NF-KB inhibitors;
                      (q)     rosmarinic acid;
                      (r)     mitoguazone;
                                                121

                      (s)     tetrandrine; and
                      (t)     proteasome inhibitors.
       [0251] When the improvement is made by chemopotentiation, the
chemopotentiation can comprise, but is not limited to, the use of indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin as a chemopotentiator
in combination with an agent selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)     topoisomerase inhibitors;
                      (b)     fraudulent nucleosides;
                      (c)     fraudulent nucleotides;
                      (d)     thymidylate synthetase inhibitors;
                      (e)     signal transduction inhibitors;
                      (f)     cisplatin or platinum analogs;
                      (g)     alkylating agents;
                      (h)     anti-tubulin agents;
                      (i)     antimetabolites;
                      (j)     berberine;
                      (k)     apigenin;
                      (I)     amonafide;
                      (m)     vinca alkaloids;
                      (n)     5-fluorouracil;
                      (o)     curcumin;
                      (p)     NF-KB inhibitors;
                      (q)     rosmarinic acid;
                      (r)     mitoguazone;
                      (s)     tetrandrine; and
                      (t)     proteasome inhibitors.
       [0252] In one alternative, when the chemopotentiation involves
chemopotentiation of an alkylating agent by the activity of indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin. the alkylating agent can
                                                122

be selected from the group consisting of BCNU, BCNU wafers (Gliadel), CCNU,
bendamustine (Treanda), and temozolimide (Temodar).
       [0253] When the improvement is made by post-treatment management, the
post-treatment management can be, but is not limited to, a method selected from the
group consisting of:
                      (a)   a therapy associated with pain management;
                      (b)   administration of an anti-emetic;
                      (c)   an anti-nausea therapy;
                      (d)   administration of an anti-inflammatory agent;
                      (e)   administration of an anti-pyretic agent; and
                      (f)   administration of an immune stimulant.
       [0254] When the improvement is made by alternative medicine/post-treatment
support, the alternative medicine/post-treatment support can be, but is not limited to, a
method selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)   hypnosis;
                      (b)   acupuncture;
                      (c)   meditation;
                      (d)   a herbal medication created either synthetically or through
extraction; and
                      (e)   applied kinesiology.
       [0255] In one alternative, when the method is a herbal medication created either
synthetically or through extraction, the herbal medication created either synthetically or
through extraction can be selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)   a NF-KB inhibitor;
                      (b)   a natural anti-inflammatory;
                      (c)   an immunostimulant;
                      (d)   an antimicrobial; and
                      (v)   a flavonoid, isoflavone, or flavone.
       [0256] When the herbal medication created either synthetically or through
extraction is a NF-KB inhibitor, the NF-KB inhibitor can be selected from the group
                                             123

consisting of parthenolide, curcumin, and rosmarinic acid. When the herbal medication
created either synthetically or through extraction is a natural anti-inflammatory, the
natural anti-inflammatory can be selected from the group consisting of rhein and
parthenolide. When the herbal medication created either synthetically or through
extraction is an immunostimulant, the immunostimulant can be a product found in or
isolated from Echinacea. When the herbal medication created either synthetically or
through extraction is an anti-microbial, the anti-microbial can be berberine. When the
herbal medication created either synthetically or through extraction is a flavonoid or
flavone, the flavonoid, isoflavone, or flavone can be selected from the group consisting
of apigenin, genistein, apigenenin, genistein, genistin, 6"-O-malonylgenistin, 6"-O
acetylgenistin, daidzein, daidzin, 6"-O-malonyldaidzin, 6"-O-acetylgenistin, glycitein,
glycitin, 6"-O-malonylglycitin, and 6-0-acetylglycitin.
        [0257] When the improvement is made by a bulk drug product improvement, the
bulk drug product improvement can be, but is not limited to, a bulk drug product
improvement selected from the group consisting of:
                       (a)    salt formation;
                       (b)    preparation as a homogeneous crystal structure;
                       (c)    preparation as a pure isomer;
                       (d)     increased purity;
                       (e)    preparation with lower residual solvent content; and
                       (f)    preparation with lower residual heavy metal content.
        [0258] When the improvement is made by use of a diluent, the diluent can be,
but is not limited to, a diluent selected from the group consisting of:
                       (a)    an emulsion;
                       (b)    dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO);
                       (c)     N-methylformamide (NMF)
                       (d)     DMF;
                       (e)    ethanol;
                       (f)    benzyl alcohol;
                       (g)    dextrose-containing water for injection;
                                              124

                       (h)    Cremophor;
                       (i)    cyclodextrin; and
                       (j)    PEG.
       [0259] When the improvement is made by use of a solvent system, the solvent
system can be, but is not limited to, a solvent system selected from the group consisting
of:
                       (a)    an emulsion;
                       (b)    dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO);
                       (c)    N-methylformamide (NMF)
                       (d)    DMF;
                       (e)    ethanol;
                       (f)    benzyl alcohol;
                       (g)    dextrose-containing water for injection;
                       (h)    Cremophor;
                       (i)    cyclodextrin; and
                       (j)    PEG.
       [0260] When the improvement is made by use of an excipient, the excipient can
be, but is not limited to, an excipient selected from the group consisting of:
group consisting of:
                       (a)    mannitol;
                       (b)    albumin;
                       (c)    EDTA;
                       (d)    sodium bisulfite;
                       (e)    benzyl alcohol;
                       (f)    a carbonate buffer;
                       (g)    a phosphate buffer; and
                       (h)    methylcellulose.
       [0261] When the improvement is made by use of a dosage form, the dosage
form can be, but is not limited to, a dosage form selected from the group consisting of:
                       (a)    tablets;
                                              125

                        (b)    capsules;
                        (c)    topical gels;
                        (d)    topical creams;
                        (e)    patches;
                        (f)    suppositories; and
                        (g)    lyophilized dosage fills.
        [0262] Formulation of pharmaceutical compositions in tablets, capsules, and
topical gels, topical creams or suppositories is well known in the art and is described, for
example, in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2004/0023290 by Griffin et
al., incorporated herein by this reference.
        [0263] Formulation of pharmaceutical compositions as patches such as
transdermal patches is well known in the art and is described, for example, in United
States Patent No. 7,728,042 to Eros et al., incorporated herein by this reference.
        [0264] Lyophilized dosage fills are also well known in the art. One general
method for the preparation of such lyophilized dosage fills, applicable to indirubin, an
analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin, comprises
the following steps:
                (1) Dissolve the drug in water for injection precooled to below 100 C.
Dilute to final volume with cold water for injection to yield a 40 mg/mL solution.
                (2) Filter the bulk solution through an 0.2-pm filter into a receiving
container under aseptic conditions. The formulation and filtration should be completed
in 1 hour.
                (3) Fill nominal 1.0 mL filtered solution into sterilized glass vials in a
controlled target range under aseptic conditions.
                (4) After the filling, all vials are placed with rubber stoppers inserted in the
lyophilizationn position" and loaded in the prechilled lyophilizer. For the lyophilizer, shelf
temperature is set at +50 C and held for 1 hour; shelf temperature is then adjusted to -50
C and held for one hour, and the condenser, set to -600 C, turned on.
                (5) The vials are then frozen to 300 C or below and held for no less than 3
hours, typically 4 hours.
                                                  126

                (6) Vacuum is then turned on, the shelf temperature is adjusted to -50 C,
and primary drying is performed for 8 hours; the shelf temperature is again adjusted to
50 C and drying is carried out for at least 5 hours.
                (7) Secondary drying is started after the condenser (set at -600 C) and
vacuum are turned on. In secondary drying, the shelf temperature is controlled at +50 C
for 1 to 3 hours, typically 1.5 hours, then at 250C for 1 to 3 hours, typically 1.5 hours,
and finally at 35-400 C for at least 5 hours, typically for 9 hours, or until the product is
completely dried.
                (8) Break the vacuum with filtered inert gas (e.g., nitrogen). Stopper the
vials in the lyophilizer.
                (9) Vials are removed from the lyophilizer chamber and sealed with
aluminum flip-off seals. All vials are visually inspected and labeled with approved
labels.
        [0265] When the improvement is made by use of dosage kits and packaging, the
dosage kits and packaging can be, but are not limited to, dosage kits and packaging
selected from the group consisting of the use of amber vials to protect from light and the
use of stoppers with specialized coatings to improve shelf-life stability.
        [0266] When the improvement is made by use of a drug delivery system, the
drug delivery system can be, but is not limited to, a drug delivery system selected from
the group consisting of:
                       (a)    nanocrystals;
                       (b)    bioerodible polymers;
                       (c)    liposomes;
                       (d)    slow release injectable gels;
                       (e)    microspheres;
                       (f)    vascular disrupting agents; and
                       (g)    polymer-coated stents.
        [0267] Nanocrystals are described in United States Patent No. 7,101,576 to
Hovey et al., incorporated herein by this reference.
                                              127

       [0268] Bioerodible polymers are described in United States Patent No.
7,318,931 to Okumu et al., incorporated herein by this reference. A bioerodible polymer
decomposes when placed inside an organism, as measured by a decline in the
molecular weight of the polymer over time. Polymer molecular weights can be
determined by a variety of methods including size exclusion chromatography (SEC),
and are generally expressed as weight averages or number averages. A polymer is
bioerodible if, when in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) of pH 7.4 and a temperature of
370 C, its weight-average molecular weight is reduced by at least 25% over a period of
6 months as measured by SEC. Useful bioerodible polymers include polyesters, such
as poly(caprolactone), poly(glycolic acid), poly(lactic acid), and poly(hydroxybutryate);
polyanhydrides, such as poly(adipic anhydride) and poly(maleic anhydride);
polydioxanone; polyamines; polyamides; polyurethanes; polyesteramides;
polyorthoesters; polyacetals; polyketals; polycarbonates; polyorthocarbonates;
polyphosphazenes; poly(malic acid); poly(amino acids); polyvinylpyrrolidone;
poly(methyl vinyl ether); poly(alkylene oxalate); poly(alkylene succinate);
polyhydroxycellulose; chitin; chitosan; and copolymers and mixtures thereof.
       [0269] Liposomes are well known as drug delivery vehicles. Liposome
preparation is described in European Patent Application Publication No. EP 1332755 by
Weng et al., incorporated herein by this reference.
       [0270] Slow release injectable gels are known in the art and are described, for
example, in B. Jeong et al., "Drug Release from Biodegradable Injectable
Thermosensitive Hydrogel of PEG-PLGA-PEG Triblock Copolymers," J. Controlled
Release 63: 155-163 (2000), incorporated herein by this reference.
       [0271] The use of microspheres for drug delivery is known in the art and is
described, for example, in H. Okada & H. Taguchi, "Biodegradable Microspheres in
Drug Delivery," Crit. Rev. Ther. Druq Carrier Sys. 12: 1-99 (1995), incorporated herein
by this reference.
       [0272] The use of vascular disrupting agents for delivery is disclosed in United
States Patent Application Publication No. 2010/0272717 by Evans et al., incorporated
                                            128

herein by this reference. Such vascular disrupting agents include, but are not limited to,
5,6-dimethylxanthenone-4-acetic acid.
       [0273] The use of polymer-coated stents for drug delivery is disclosed in United
States Patent No. 7,906,134 to Hauenstein, incorporated by this reference.
       [0274] When the improvement is made by use of a drug conjugate form, the
drug conjugate form can be, but is not limited to, a drug conjugate form selected from
the group consisting of:
                      (a)    a polymer system;
                      (b)    polylactides;
                      (c)    polyglycolides;
                      (d)    amino acids;
                      (e)    peptides; and
                      (f)    multivalent linkers.
       [0275] Polylactide conjugates are well known in the art and are described, for
example, in R. Tong & C. Cheng, "Controlled Synthesis of Camptothecin-Polylactide
Conjugates and Nanoconjugates," Bioconjuqate Chem. 21: 111-121 (2010),
incorporated herein by this reference.
       [0276] Polyglycolide conjugates are also well known in the art and are
described, for example, in PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO 2003/070823 by
Elmaleh et al., incorporated herein by this reference.
       [0277] Multivalent linkers are known in the art and are described, for example, in
United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007/0207952 by Silva et al.,
incorporated herein by this reference. For example, multivalent linkers can contain a
thiophilic group for reaction with a reactive cysteine, and multiple nucleophilic groups
(such as NH or OH) or electrophilic groups (such as activated esters) that permit
attachment of a plurality of biologically active moieties to the linker.
       [0278] Suitable reagents for cross-linking many combinations of functional
groups are known in the art. For example, electrophilic groups can react with many
functional groups, including those present in proteins or polypeptides. Various
combinations of reactive amino acids and electrophiles are known in the art and can be
                                              129

used. For example, N-terminal cysteines, containing thiol groups, can be reacted with
halogens or maleimides. Thiol groups are known to have reactivity with a large number
of coupling agents, such as alkyl halides, haloacetyl derivatives, maleimides, aziridines,
acryloyl derivatives, arylating agents such as aryl halides, and others. These are
described in G. T. Hermanson, "Bioconjugate Techniques" (Academic Press, San
Diego, 1996), pp. 146-150, incorporated herein by this reference. The reactivity of the
cysteine residues can be optimized by appropriate selection of the neighboring amino
acid residues. For example, a histidine residue adjacent to the cysteine residue will
increase the reactivity of the cysteine residue. Other combinations of reactive amino
acids and electrophilic reagents are known in the art. For example, maleimides can
react with amino groups, such as the 8-amino group of the side chain of lysine,
particularly at higher pH ranges. Aryl halides can also react with such amino groups.
Haloacetyl derivatives can react with the imidazolyl side chain nitrogens of histidine, the
thioether group of the side chain of methionine, and the .epsilon.-amino group of the
side chain of lysine. Many other electrophilic reagents are known that will react with the
8-amino group of the side chain of lysine, including, but not limited to, isothiocyanates,
isocyanates, acyl azides, N-hydroxysuccinimide esters, sulfonyl chlorides, epoxides,
oxiranes, carbonates, imidoesters, carbodiimides, and anhydrides. These are
described in G.T. Hermanson, "Bioconjugate Techniques" (Academic Press, San Diego,
1996), pp. 137-146, incorporated herein by this reference. Additionally, electrophilic
reagents are known that will react with carboxylate side chains such as those of
aspartate and glutamate, such as diazoalkanes and diazoacetyl compounds,
carbonydilmidazole, and carbodiimides. These are described in G. T. Hermanson,
"Bioconjugate Techniques" (Academic Press, San Diego, 1996), pp. 152-154,
incorporated herein by this reference. Furthermore, electrophilic reagents are known
that will react with hydroxyl groups such as those in the side chains of serine and
threonine, including reactive haloalkane derivatives. These are described in G. T.
Hermanson, "Bioconjugate Techniques," (Academic Press, San Diego, 1996), pp. 154
158, incorporated herein by this reference. In another alternative embodiment, the
relative positions of electrophile and nucleophile (i.e., a molecule reactive with an
                                             130

electrophile) are reversed so that the protein has an amino acid residue with an
electrophilic group that is reactive with a nucleophile and the targeting molecule
includes therein a nucleophilic group. This includes the reaction of aldehydes (the
electrophile) with hydroxylamine (the nucleophile), described above, but is more general
than that reaction; other groups can be used as electrophile and nucleophile. Suitable
groups are well known in organic chemistry and need not be described further in detail.
        [0279] Additional combinations of reactive groups for cross-linking are known in
the art. For example, amino groups can be reacted with isothiocyanates, isocyanates,
acyl azides, N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) esters, sulfonyl chlorides, aldehydes,
glyoxals, epoxides, oxiranes, carbonates, alkylating agents, imidoesters, carbodiimides,
and anhydrides. Thiol groups can be reacted with haloacetyl or alkyl halide derivatives,
maleimides, aziridines, acryloyl derivatives, acylating agents, or other thiol groups by
way of oxidation and the formation of mixed disulfides. Carboxy groups can be reacted
with diazoalkanes, diazoacetyl compounds, carbonyldiimidazole, carbodiimides.
Hydroxyl groups can be reacted with epoxides, oxiranes, carbonyldiimidazole, N,N'
disuccinimidyl carbonate, N-hydroxysuccinimidyl chloroformate, periodate (for
oxidation), alkyl halogens, or isocyanates. Aldehyde and ketone groups can react with
hydrazines, reagents forming Schiff bases, and other groups in reductive amination
reactions or Mannich condensation reactions. Still other reactions suitable for cross
linking reactions are known in the art. Such cross-linking reagents and reactions are
described in G.T. Hermanson, "Bioconjugate Techniques" (Academic Press, San Diego,
1996), incorporated herein by this reference.
        [0280] When the improvement is made by use of a compound analog, the
compound analog can be, but is not limited to, a compound analog selected from the
group consisting of:
                      (a)     alteration of side chains to increase or decrease lipophilicity;
                      (b)     addition of an additional chemical functionality to alter a
property selected from the group consisting of reactivity, electron affinity, and binding
capacity; and
                      (c)     alteration of salt form.
                                               131

       [0281] The addition of an additional chemical functionality to alter reactivity, can
be, but is not limited to, an moiety that acts as an alkylating agent and a colchicine
binding site. Moieties that act as alkylating agents can include, for example, nitrogen
atoms substituted with two chloroalkyl moieties, as occur in nitrogen mustards,
nitrosourea moieties, and alkylsulfonate moieties. Moieties that act as colchicine
binding sites are described in A. Jordan et al., "Tubulin as a Target for Anticancer
Drugs: Agents Which Interact With the Mitotic Spindle," Med. Res. Rev. 18: 259-296
(1998), incorporated herein by this reference. The compound analog is typically a
compound analog of meisoindigo; alternatively, the compound analog can be a
compound analog of one of Alternatives (1)-(474) as described above.
       [0282] When the improvement is made by use of a prodrug system, the prodrug
system can be, but is not limited to, a prodrug system selected from the group
consisting of:
                       (a)    the use of enzyme sensitive esters;
                       (b)    the use of dimers;
                       (c)    the use of Schiff bases;
                       (d)    the use of pyridoxal complexes;
                       (e)    the use of caffeine complexes;
                       (f)    the use of N-substituted carbohydrate derivatives;
                       (g)    the use of Mannich N-oxides;
                       (h)    the use of products of reaction with an acylating or
carbamylating agent;
                       (i)    the use of hexanoate conjugates;
                       (j)    the use of polymer-agent conjugates; and
                       (k)    the use of prodrugs that are subject to redox activation.
       [0283] The use of prodrug systems is described in T. Jarvinen et al., "Design
and Pharmaceutical Applications of Prodrugs" in Druq Discovery Handbook (S.C. Gad,
ed., Wiley-Interscience, Hoboken, NJ, 2005), ch. 17, pp. 733-796, incorporated herein
by this reference. This publication describes the use of enzyme sensitive esters as
prodrugs. The use of dimers as prodrugs is described in United States Patent No.
                                              132

7,879,896 to Allegretti et al., incorporated herein by this reference. The use of peptides
in prodrugs is described in S. Prasad et al., "Delivering Multiple Anticancer Peptides as
a Single Prodrug Using Lysyl-Lysine as a Facile Linker," J. Peptide Sci. 13: 458-467
(2007), incorporated herein by this reference. The use of Schiff bases as prodrugs is
described in United States Patent No. 7,619,005 to Epstein et al., incorporated herein
by this reference. The use of caffeine complexes as prodrugs is described in United
States Patent No. 6,443,898 to Unger et al., incorporated herein by this reference.
         [0284] Still other prodrug systems applicable to indirubin derivatives or analogs
are carbohydrate derivatives such as those described in United States Patent No.
6,566,341 to Wang et al., incorporated by this reference. Typically, these prodrugs are
N-substituted carbohydrate derivatives. The carbohydrate can be, for example, a
monosaccharide or a disaccharide. The monosaccharide or disaccharide can be, for
example, glucose, fructose, ribulose, galactose, mannose, cellobiose, allose, altrose,
ribose, xylose, arabinose, sucrose, or lactose. A particularly suitable prodrug is an N
triacetylxylopyranosyl derivative of indirubin or an analog or derivative of indirubin,
including an N-triacetylxylopyranosyl derivative or meisoindigo.
         [0285] Still other prodrug systems applicable to indirubin derivatives or analogs
include Mannich N-oxides of indirubin derivatives or analogs, including meisoindigo, as
described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2010/0016252 by Keana
et al., incorporated herein by this reference.
         [0286] Yet other prodrug systems applicable to indirubin derivatives or analogs
include prodrugs that are prepared by reacting a compound with an acylating or
carbamylating agent, such as 1,1-acyloxyalkylcarbonochloridate, p-nitrophenyl
carbonate, or a similar acylating or carbamylating agent, as described in United States
Patent No. 8,076,375 to Sefton et al, incorporated herein by this reference.
         [0287] Still other other prodrug systems applicable to indirubin derivatives or
analogs include hexanoate conjugates and polymer-agent conjugates as described in
United States Patent Application Publication No. 2011/0268658 by Crawford et al.,
incorporated herein by this reference.
                                             133

        [0288] Still other prodrug systems applicable to indirubin derivatives or analogs
include the use of prodrugs that are subject to redox activation. This utilizes the large
quantities of reductase enzyme present in a hypoxic cell to bioactivate the drug into its
cytotoxic form, essentially activating it.
        [0289] In general, prodrugs can be classified into two major types, based on
their cellular sites of bioactivation into the final active drug form, with Type I being those
that are bioactivated intracellularly (e.g., anti-viral nucleoside analogs, lipid-lowering
statins), and Type II being those that are bioactivated extracellularly, especially in
digestive fluids or the systemic circulation (e.g., etoposide phosphate, valganciclovir,
fosamprenavir, antibody- gene- or virus-directed enzyme prodrugs [ADEP/GDEP/VDEP]
for chemotherapy or immunotherapy). Both types can be further categorized into
subtypes, i.e. Type IA, IB and Type IIA, IIB, and IIC based on whether or not the
intracellular bioactivating location is also the site of therapeutic action, or the
bioactivation occurs in the gastrointestinal (GI) fluids or systemic circulation. Type IA
prodrugs include many antimicrobial and chemotherapy agents (e.g., 5-flurouracil). Type
IB agents rely on metabolic enzymes, especially in hepatic cells, to bioactivate the
prodrugs intracellularly to active drugs. Type II prodrugs are bioactivated extracelluarly,
either in the milieu of GI fluids (Type IIA), within the systemic circulation and/or other
extracellular fluid compartments (Type IIB), or near therapeutic target tissues/cells (Type
IIC), relying on common enzymes such as esterases and phosphatases or target
directed enzymes. Importantly, prodrugs can belong to multiple subtypes (i.e., mixed
type). A mixed-type prodrug is one that is bioactivated at multiple sites, either in parallel
or sequential steps. Many ADEPs, VDEPs, GDEPs and nanoparticle- or nanocarrier
linked drug moieties can be sequential mixed-type prodrugs. Bioactivation of prodrugs
can occur by many reactions, including bioactivation by esterases, hydrolysis,
bioactivation by decarboxylases, bioactivation by phosphatases, bioactivation by
deacetylases, bioactivation by N-dealkylases, and many other reactions.
        [0290] When the improvement is made by use of a multiple drug system, the
multiple drug system can be, but is not limited to, a multiple drug system selected from
the group consisting of:
                                                134

                      (a)    use of multi-drug resistance inhibitors;
                      (b)    use of specific drug resistance inhibitors;
                      (c)    use of specific inhibitors of selective enzymes;
                      (d)    use of signal transduction inhibitors;
                      (e)    use of repair inhibition; and
                      (f)    use of topoisomerase inhibitors with non-overlapping side
effects.
        [0291] Multi-drug resistance inhibitors are described in United States Patent No.
6,011,069 to Inomata et al., incorporated herein by this reference.
        [0292] Specific drug resistance inhibitors are described in T. Hideshima et al.,
"The Proteasome Inhibitor PS-341 Inhibits Growth, Induces Apoptosis, and Overcomes
Drug Resistance in Human Multiple Myeloma Cells," Cancer Res. 61: 3071-3076
(2001), incorporated herein by this reference. PS-341 refers to bortezomib.
        [0293] Repair inhibition is described in N.M. Martin, "DNA Repair Inhibition and
Cancer Therapy," J. Photochem. Photobiol. B 63: 162-170 (2001), incorporated herein
by this reference.
        [0294] When the improvement is made by biotherapeutic enhancement, the
biotherapeutic enhancement can be performed by use in combination as
sensitizers/potentiators with a therapeutic agent or technique that can be, but is not
limited to, a therapeutic agent or technique selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)    cytokines;
                      (b)    lymphokines;
                      (c)    therapeutic antibodies;
                      (d)    antisense therapies;
                      (e)    gene therapies;
                      (f)    ribozymes; and
                      (g)    RNA interference.
        [0295] Antisense therapies are described, for example, in B. Weiss et al.,
"Antisense RNA Gene Therapy for Studying and Modulating Biological Processes," Cell.
Mol. Life Sci. 55: 334-358 (1999), incorporated herein by this reference.
                                             135

         [0296] Ribozymes are described, for example, in S. Pascolo, "RNA-Based
Therapies" jn Druq Discovery Handbook (S.C. Gad, ed., Wiley-Interscience, Hoboken,
NJ, 2005), ch.27, pp. 1273-1278, incorporated herein by this reference.
         [0297] RNA interference is described, for example, in S. Pascolo, "RNA-Based
Therapies" jn Druq Discovery Handbook (S.C. Gad, ed., Wiley-Interscience, Hoboken,
NJ, 2005), ch.27, pp. 1278-1283, incorporated herein by this reference.
         [0298] When the biotherapeutic enhancement is use in combination as
sensitizers/potentiators with a therapeutic antibody, the therapeutic antibody can be, but
is not limited to, a therapeutic antibody selected from the group consisting of
bevacizumab (Avastin), rituximab (Rituxan), trastuzumab (Herceptin), and cetuximab
(Erbitux).
         [0299] When the improvement is made by use of biotherapeutic resistance
modulation, the biotherapeutic resistance modulation can be, but is not limited to, use
against tumors resistant to a therapeutic agent or technique selected from the group
consisting of:
                       (a)   biological response modifiers;
                       (b)   cytokines;
                       (c)   lymphokines;
                       (d)   therapeutic antibodies;
                       (e)   antisense therapies;
                       (f)   gene therapies;
                       (g)   ribozymes; and
                       (h)   RNA interference.
         [0300] When the biotherapeutic resistance modulation is use against tumors
resistant to therapeutic antibodies, the therapeutic antibody can be, but is not limited to,
a therapeutic antibody selected from the group consisting of bevacizumab (Avastin),
rituximab (Rituxan), trastuzumab (Herceptin), and cetuximab (Erbitux).
         [0301] When the improvement is made by radiation therapy enhancement, the
radiation therapy enhancement can be, but is not limited to, a radiation therapy
enhancement agent or technique selected from the group consisting of:
                                             136

                      (a)     hypoxic cell sensitizers;
                      (b)     radiation sensitizers/protectors;
                      (c)     photosensitizers;
                      (d)     radiation repair inhibitors;
                      (e)     thiol depleters;
                      (f)     vaso-targeted agents;
                      (g)     DNA repair inhibitors;
                      (h)     radioactive seeds;
                      (i)     radionuclides;
                      (j)     radiolabeled antibodies; and
                      (k)     brachytherapy.
        [0302] Hypoxic cell sensitizers are described in C.C. Ling et al., "The Effect of
Hypoxic Cell Sensitizers at Different Irradiation Dose Rates," Radiation Res. 109: 396
406 (1987), incorporated herein by this reference. Radiation sensitizers are described
in T.S. Lawrence, "Radiation Sensitizers and Targeted Therapies," Oncoloqy 17 (Suppl.
13) 23-28 (2003), incorporated herein by this reference. Radiation protectors are
described in S.B. Vuyyuri et al., "Evaluation of D-Methionine as a Novel Oral Radiation
Protector for Prevention of Mucositis," Clin. Cancer Res. 14: 2161-2170 (2008),
incorporated herein by this reference. Photosensitizers are described in R.R. Allison &
C.H. Sibata, "Oncologic Photodynamic Therapy Photosensitizers: A Clinical Review,"
Photodiaqnosis Photodynamic Ther. 7: 61-75 (2010), incorporated herein by this
reference. Radiation repair inhibitors and DNA repair inhibitors are described in M.
Hingorani et al., "Evaluation of Repair of Radiation-Induced DNA Damage Enhances
Expression from Replication-Defective Adenoviral Vectors," Cancer Res. 68: 9771-9778
(2008), incorporated herein by this reference. Thiol depleters are described in K.D.
Held et al., "Postirradiation Sensitization of Mammalian Cells by the Thiol-Depleting
Agent Dimethyl Fumarate," Radiation Res. 127: 75-80 (1991), incorporated herein by
this reference. Vaso-targeted agents are described in A.L. Seynhaeve et al., "Tumor
Necrosis Factor a Mediates Homogeneous Distribution of Liposomes in Murine
                                               137

Melanoma that Contributes to a Better Tumor Response," Cancer Res. 67: 9455-9462
(2007), incorporated herein by this reference.
        [0303] When the improvement is by use of a novel mechanism of action, the
novel mechanism of action can be, but is not limited to, a novel mechanism of action
that is a therapeutic interaction with a target or mechanism selected from the group
consisting of:
                      (a)    inhibitors of poly-ADP ribose polymerase;
                      (b)    agents that affect vasculature or vasodilation;
                      (c)    oncogenic targeted agents;
                      (d)    signal transduction inhibitors;
                      (e)    EGFR inhibition;
                      (f)    protein kinase C inhibition;
                      (g)    phospholipase C downregulation;
                      (h)    Jun downregulation;
                      (i)    histone genes;
                      (j)    VEGF;
                      (k)    ornithine decarboxylase;
                      (I)    ubiquitin C;
                      (m)    Jun D;
                      (n)    v-Jun;
                      (o)    GPCRs;
                      (p)    protein kinase A;
                      (q)    protein kinases other than protein kinase A;
                      (r)    prostate specific genes;
                      (s)    telomerase; and
                      (t)    histone deacetylase.
        [0304] EGFR inhibition is described in G. Giaccone & J.A. Rodriguez, "EGFR
Inhibitors: What Have We Learned from the Treatment of Lung Cancer," Nat. Clin.
Pract. Oncol. 11: 554-561 (2005), incorporated herein by this reference. Protein kinase
C inhibition is described in H.C. Swannie & S.B. Kaye, "Protein Kinase C Inhibitors,"
                                              138

Curr. Oncol. Rep. 4: 37-46 (2002), incorporated herein by this reference.
Phospholipase C downregulation is described in A.M. Martelli et al., "Phosphoinositide
Signaling in Nuclei of Friend Cells: Phospholipase C     P Downregulation   Is Related to
Cell Differentiation," Cancer Res. 54: 2536-2540 (1994), incorporated herein by this
reference. Downregulation of Jun (specifically, c-Jun) is described in A. A. P. Zada et
al., "Downregulation of c-Jun Expression and Cell Cycle Regulatory Molecules in Acute
Myeloid Leukemia Cells Upon CD44 Ligation," Oncoqene 22: 2296-2308 (2003),
incorporated herein by this reference. The role of histone genes as a target for
therapeutic intervention is described in B. Calabretta et al., "Altered Expression of G1
Specific Genes in Human Malignant Myeloid Cells," Proc. NatI. Acad. Sci. USA 83:
1495-1498 (1986), incorporated herein by this reference. The role of VEGF as a target
for therapeutic intervention is described in A. Zielke et al., "VEGF-Mediated
Angiogenesis of Human Pheochromocytomas Is Associated to Malignancy and Inhibited
by anti-VEGF Antibodies in Experimental Tumors," Surgerv 132: 1056-1063 (2002),
incorporated herein by this reference. The role of ornithine decarboxylase as a target
for therapeutic intervention is described in J.A. Nilsson et al., "Targeting Ornithine
Decarboxylase in Myc-Induced Lymphomagenesis Prevents Tumor Formation," Cancer
Cell 7: 433-444 (2005), incorporated herein by this reference. The role of ubiquitin C as
a target for therapeutic intervention is described in C. Aghajanian et al., "A Phase I Trial
of the Novel Proteasome Inhibitor PS341 in Advanced Solid Tumor Malignancies," Clin.
Cancer Res. 8: 2505-2511 (2002), incorporated herein by this reference. The role of
Jun D as a target for therapeutic intervention is described in M.M. Caffarel et al., "JunD
Is Involved in the Antiproliferative Effect of A9-Tetrahydrocannibinol on Human Breast
Cancer Cells," Oncoqene 27: 5033-5044 (2008), incorporated herein by this reference.
The role of v-Jun as a target for therapeutic intervention is described in M. Gao et al.,
"Differential and Antagonistic Effects of v-Jun and c-Jun," Cancer Res. 56: 4229-4235
(1996), incorporated herein by this reference. The role of protein kinase A as a target
for therapeutic intervention is described in P.C. Gordge et al., "Elevation of Protein
Kinase A and Protein Kinase C in Malignant as Compared With Normal Breast Tissue,"
Eur. J. Cancer 12: 2120-2126 (1996), incorporated herein by this reference. The role of
                                              139

telomerase as a target for therapeutic intervention is described in E.K. Parkinson et al.,
"Telomerase as a Novel and Potentially Selective Target for Cancer Chemotherapy,"
Ann. Med. 35: 466-475 (2003), incorporated herein by this reference. The role of
histone deacetylase as a target for therapeutic intervention is described in A. Melnick &
J.D. Licht, "Histone Deacetylases as Therapeutic Targets in Hematologic Malignancies,"
Curr. Opin. Hematol. 9: 322-332 (2002), incorporated herein by this reference.
        [0305] When the improvement is made by use of selective target cell population
therapeutics, the use of selective target cell population therapeutics can be, but is not
limited to, a use selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)    use against radiation sensitive cells;
                      (b)    use against radiation resistant cells;
                      (c)    use against energy depleted cells; and
                      (d)    use against endothelial cells.
        [0306] Another aspect of the present invention is a composition to improve the
efficacy and/or reduce the side effects of suboptimally administered drug therapy
comprising an alternative selected from the group consisting of:
               (i)    a therapeutically effective quantity of a modified therapeutic agent
or a derivative, analog, or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or modified therapeutic agent,
wherein the modified therapeutic agent or the derivative, analog or prodrug of the
therapeutic agent or modified therapeutic agent possesses increased therapeutic
efficacy or reduced side effects as compared with an unmodified therapeutic agent;
               (ii)   a composition comprising:
                      (a)    a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent, a
modified therapeutic agent or a derivative, analog, or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or
modified therapeutic agent; and
                      (b)    at least one additional therapeutic agent, therapeutic agent
subject to chemosensitization, therapeutic agent subject to chemopotentiation, diluent,
excipient, solvent system, or drug delivery system, wherein the composition possesses
increased therapeutic efficacy or reduced side effects as compared with an unmodified
therapeutic agent;
                                             140

               (iii) a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent, a
modified therapeutic agent, or a derivative, analog, or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or
modified therapeutic agent that is incorporated into a dosage form, wherein the
therapeutic agent, the modified therapeutic agent, or the derivative, analog, or prodrug
of a therapeutic agent or modified therapeutic agent incorporated into the dosage form
possesses increased therapeutic efficacy or reduced side effects as compared with an
unmodified therapeutic agent;
               (iv)  a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent, a
modified therapeutic agent, or a derivative, analog, or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or
modified therapeutic agent that is incorporated into a dosage kit and packaging, wherein
the therapeutic agent, the modified therapeutic agent, or the derivative, analog, or
prodrug of a therapeutic agent or modified therapeutic agent incorporated into the
dosage kit and packaging possesses increased therapeutic efficacy or reduced side
effects as compared with an unmodified therapeutic agent; and
               (v)   a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent, a
modified therapeutic agent, or a derivative, analog, or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or
modified therapeutic agent that is subjected to a bulk drug product improvement,
wherein the therapeutic agent, the modified therapeutic agent, or the derivative, analog,
or prodrug of a therapeutic agent or modified therapeutic agent subject to the bulk drug
product improvement possesses increased therapeutic efficacy or reduced side effects
as compared with an unmodified therapeutic agent.
       [0307] Typically, the composition possesses increased efficacy or reduced side
effects for cancer therapy. Typically, the unmodified therapeutic agent is indirubin, an
analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin, as described
above. In another alternative, the therapeutically active agent is an agent selected from
the group consisting of Alternatives (1)-(474), the modified therapeutic agent is a
modification of an agent selected from the group consisting of Alternatives (1)-(474),
and the derivative, analog, or prodrug is a derivative, analog, or prodrug of an agent
selected from the group consisting of Alternatives (1)-(474) or of a modification of an
agent selected from the group consisting of Alternatives (1)-(474). Alternatives (1)
                                              141

(474) are described above. Typically, the unmodified therapeutic agent is meisoindigo,
and, where the composition includes a modified therapeutic agent, the modified
therapeutic agent is typically a modification of meisoindigo.
       [0308] In one alternative, the composition comprises a drug combination
comprising:
              (i)     indirubin, an analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an
analog of indirubin; and
              (ii)    an additional therapeutic agent selected from the group consisting
of:
                      (a)    topoisomerase inhibitors;
                      (b)    fraudulent nucleosides;
                      (c)    fraudulent nucleotides;
                      (d)    thymidylate synthetase inhibitors;
                      (e)    signal transduction inhibitors;
                      (f)    cisplatin or platinum analogs;
                      (g)    alkylating agents;
                      (h)    anti-tubulin agents;
                      (i)    antimetabolites;
                      (j)    berberine;
                      (k)    apigenin;
                      (I)    amonafide;
                      (m)    colchicine or an analog thereof;
                      (n)    genistein;
                      (o)    etoposide;
                      (p)    cytarabine;
                      (q)    a camptothecin;
                      (r)    a vinca alkaloid;
                      (s)    5-fluorouracil;
                      (t)    curcumin;
                      (u)    an NF-KB inhibitor;
                                               142

                      (v)   rosmarinic acid;
                      (w)   mitoguazone;
                      (x)   tetandrine;
                      (y)   an antineoplastic agent not metabolized by cytochrome
P450 CYP 1A2 or CYP 2C19;
                      (z)   a biological therapy;
                      (aa)  a tyrosine kinase inhibitor;
                      (ab)  all-trans-retinoic acid;
                      (ac)  an arsenical;
                      (ad)  hydroxyurea;
                      (ae)  thioguanine;
                      (af)  mercaptopurine;
                      (ag)  homoharringtonine;
                      (ah)  oridonin;
                      (aj)  uracil mustard;
                      (ak)  nilotinib;
                      (al)  dasatinib;
                      (am)  lonidamine;
                      (an)  5-azacytidine;
                      (ao)  thalidomide or an analog thereof;
                      (ap)  an EGFR inhibitor such as erlotinib, afatinib, lapatinib, or
dacomitinib;
                      (aq)  a gold salt such as aurothiomalate or aurothioglucose;
                      (ar)  dibromodulcitol;
                      (as)  dianhydrogalactitol;
                      (at)  decitabine; and
                      (au)  a proteasome inhibitor.
       [0309] In this alternative, when the additional therapeutic agent is an alkylating
agent, the alkylating agent can be, but is not limited to, an alkylating agent selected
                                             143

from the group consisting of BCNU, BCNU wafers, CCNU, bendamustine (Treanda),
and temozolimide (Temodar).
       [0310] In another alternative, the composition comprises:
              (i)     indirubin, an analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an
analog of indirubin; and
              (ii)    a therapeutic agent subject to chemosensitization selected from the
group consisting of:
                      (a)    topoisomerase inhibitors;
                      (b)    fraudulent nucleosides;
                      (c)    fraudulent nucleotides;
                      (d)    thymidylate synthetase inhibitors;
                      (e)    signal transduction inhibitors;
                      (f)    cisplatin or platinum analogs;
                      (g)    alkylating agents;
                      (h)    anti-tubulin agents;
                      (i)    antimetabolites;
                      (j)    berberine;
                      (k)    apigenin;
                      (I)    amonafide;
                      (m)    vinca alkaloids;
                      (n)    5-fluorouracil;
                      (o)    curcumin;
                      (p)     NF-KB inhibitors;
                      (q)    rosmarinic acid;
                      (r)    mitoguazone;
                      (s)    tetrandrine; and
                      (t)    a proteasome inhibitor.
       [0311] In still another alternative, the composition comprises:
              (i)     indirubin, an analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an
analog of indirubin; and
                                               144

               (ii)   a therapeutic agent subject to chemopotentiation selected from the
group consisting of:
                      (a)     topoisomerase inhibitors;
                      (b)     fraudulent nucleosides;
                      (c)     fraudulent nucleotides;
                      (d)     thymidylate synthetase inhibitors;
                      (e)     signal transduction inhibitors;
                      (f)     cisplatin or platinum analogs;
                      (g)     alkylating agents;
                      (h)     anti-tubulin agents;
                      (i)     antimetabolites;
                      (j)     berberine;
                      (k)     apigenin;
                      (I)     amonafide;
                      (m)     vinca alkaloids;
                      (n)     5-fluorouracil;
                      (o)     curcumin;
                      (p)     NF-KB inhibitors;
                      (q)     rosmarinic acid;
                      (r)     mitoguazone;
                      (s)     tetrandrine;
                      (t)     biotherapeutics; and
                      (u)     a proteasome inhibitor.
wherein the indirubin, an analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog
of indirubin acts as a chemopotentiator.
        [0312] In this alternative, wherein the additional therapeutic agent is a
biotherapeutic, the biotherapeutic can be, but is not limited to, a biotherapeutic selected
from the group consisting of Avastin, Herceptin, Rituxan, and Erbitux.
        [0313] In yet another alternative, the therapeutic agent is indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin and the indirubin, an
                                                145

analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin is subjected to
a bulk drug product improvement, wherein the bulk drug product improvement is
selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)     salt formation;
                      (b)     preparation as a homogeneous crystal structure;
                      (c)     preparation as a pure isomer;
                      (d)     increased purity;
                      (e)     preparation with lower residual solvent content; and
                      (f)     preparation with lower residual heavy metal content.
       [0314] In still another alternative, the therapeutic agent is indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin and the composition
comprises a diluent, wherein the diluent is selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)     an emulsion;
                      (b)     dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO);
                      (c)     N-methylformamide (NMF)
                      (d)     DMF;
                      (e)     ethanol;
                      (f)     benzyl alcohol;
                      (g)     dextrose-containing water for injection;
                      (h)     Cremophor;
                      (i)     cyclodextrin; and
                      (j)     PEG.
       [0315] In still another alternative, the therapeutic agent is indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin and the composition
comprises a solvent system, wherein the solvent system is selected from the group
consisting of:
                      (a)     an emulsion;
                      (b)     dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO);
                      (c)     N-methylformamide (NMF)
                      (d)     DMF;
                                               146

                      (e)     ethanol;
                      (f)     benzyl alcohol;
                      (g)     dextrose-containing water for injection;
                      (h)     Cremophor;
                      (i)     cyclodextrin; and
                      (j)     PEG.
       [0316] In yet another alternative, the therapeutic agent is indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin and the composition
comprises an excipient, wherein the excipient is selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)     mannitol;
                      (b)     albumin;
                      (c)     EDTA;
                      (d)     sodium bisulfite;
                      (e)     benzyl alcohol;
                      (f)     a carbonate buffer;
                      (g)     a phosphate buffer; and
                      (h)     methylcellulose.
       [0317] In still another alternative, the therapeutic agent is indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin and the indirubin, an
analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin is
incorporated into a dosage form selected from the group consisting of:
                      (a)     tablets;
                      (b)     capsules;
                      (c)     topical gels;
                      (d)     topical creams;
                      (e)     patches;
                      (f)     suppositories; and
                      (g)     lyophilized dosage fills.
       [0318] In yet another alternative, the therapeutic agent is indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin and the indirubin, an
                                               147

analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin is
incorporated into a dosage kit and packaging selected from the group consisting of
amber vials to protect from light and stoppers with specialized coatings to improve shelf
life stability.
        [0319] In still another alternative, the therapeutic agent is indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin and the composition
comprises a drug delivery system selected from the group consisting of:
                       (a)    nanocrystals;
                       (b)    bioerodible polymers;
                       (c)    liposomes;
                       (d)    slow release injectable gels; and
                       (e)    microspheres.
        [0320] In still another alternative, the therapeutic agent is indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin and the indirubin, an
analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin is present in
the composition in a drug conjugate form selected from the group consisting of:
                       (a)    a polymer system;
                       (b)    polylactides;
                       (c)    polyglycolides;
                       (d)    amino acids;
                       (e)    peptides; and
                       (f)    multivalent linkers.
        [0321] In yet another alternative, the therapeutic agent is a modified indirubin,
an analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin and the
modification is selected from the group consisting of:
                       (a)    alteration of side chains to increase or decrease lipophilicity;
                       (b)    addition of an additional chemical functionality to alter a
property selected from the group consisting of reactivity, electron affinity, and binding
capacity; and
                       (c)    alteration of salt form.
                                               148

       [0322] In still another alternative, the therapeutic agent is indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin and the indirubin, an
analog of indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin is in the form
of a prodrug system, wherein the prodrug system is selected from the group consisting
of:
                      (a)     the use of enzyme sensitive esters;
                      (b)     the use of dimers;
                      (c)     the use of Schiff bases;
                      (d)     the use of pyridoxal complexes;
                      (e)     the use of caffeine complexes;
                      (f)     the use of N-substituted carbohydrate derivatives;
                      (g)     the use of Mannich N-oxides;
                      (h)     the use of products of reaction with an acylating or
carbamylating agent;
                      (i)     the use of hexanoate conjugates;
                      (j)     the use of polymer-agent conjugates; and
                      (k)     the use of prodrugs that are subject to redox activation.
       [0323] In yet another alternative, the therapeutic agent is indirubin, an analog of
indirubin, or a derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin and the composition
further comprises at least one additional therapeutic agent to form a multiple drug
system, wherein the at least one additional therapeutic agent is selected from the group
consisting of:
                      (a)     an inhibitor of multi-drug resistance;
                      (b)     a specific drug resistance inhibitor;
                      (c)     a specific inhibitor of a selective enzyme;
                      (d)     a signal transduction inhibitor;
                      (e)     an inhibitor of a repair enzyme; and
                      (f)     a topoisomerase inhibitor with non-overlapping side effects.
       [0324] When a pharmaceutical composition according to the present invention
includes a prodrug, prodrugs and active metabolites of a compound may be identified
                                               149

using routine techniques known in the art. See, e.g., Bertolini et al., J. Med. Chem., 40,
2011-2016 (1997); Shan et al., J. Pharm. Sci., 86 (7), 765-767; Bagshawe, Drug Dev.
Res., 34, 220-230 (1995); Bodor, Advances in Drug Res., 13, 224-331 (1984);
Bundgaard, Design of Prodrugs (Elsevier Press 1985); Larsen, Design and Application
of Prodrugs, Drug Design and Development (Krogsgaard-Larsen et al., eds., Harwood
Academic Publishers, 1991); Dear et al., J. Chromatogr. B, 748, 281-293 (2000); Spraul
et al., J. Pharmaceutical & Biomedical Analysis, 10, 601-605 (1992); and Prox et al.,
Xenobiol., 3, 103-112 (1992), all of which are incorporated herein by this reference.
         [0325] When the pharmacologically active compound in a pharmaceutical
composition according to the present invention possesses a sufficiently acidic, a
sufficiently basic, or both a sufficiently acidic and a sufficiently basic functional group,
these group or groups can accordingly react with any of a number of inorganic or
organic bases, and inorganic and organic acids, to form a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt. Exemplary pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those salts prepared by
reaction of the pharmacologically active compound with a mineral or organic acid or an
inorganic base, such as salts including sulfates, pyrosulfates, bisulfates, sulfites,
bisulfites, phosphates, monohydrogenphosphates, dihydrogenphosphates,
metaphosphates, pyrophosphates, chlorides, bromides, iodides, acetates, propionates,
decanoates, caprylates, acrylates, formates, isobutyrates, caproates, heptanoates,
propiolates, oxalates, malonates, succinates, suberates, sebacates, fumarates,
maleates, butyne-1,4-dioates, hexyne-1,6-dioates, benzoates, chlorobenzoates,
methyl benzoates, dinitrobenzoates, hydroxybenzoates, methoxybenzoates, phthalates,
sulfonates, xylenesulfonates, phenylacetates, phenylpropionates, phenylbutyrates,
citrates, lactates, p-hydroxybutyrates, glycolates, tartrates, methane-sulfonates,
propanesulfonates, naphthalene-1-sulfonates, naphthalene-2-sulfonates, and
mandelates. If the pharmacologically active compound has one or more basic
functional groups, the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any
suitable method available in the art, for example, treatment of the free base with an
inorganic acid, such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid,
phosphoric acid and the like, or with an organic acid, such as acetic acid, maleic acid,
                                               150

succinic acid, mandelic acid, fumaric acid, malonic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid,
glycolic acid, salicylic acid, a pyranosidyl acid, such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic
acid, an alpha-hydroxy acid, such as citric acid or tartaric acid, an amino acid, such as
aspartic acid or glutamic acid, an aromatic acid, such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid,
a sulfonic acid, such as p-toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid, or the like. If the
pharmacologically active compound has one or more acidic functional groups, the
desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method
available in the art, for example, treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic
base, such as an amine (primary, secondary or tertiary), an alkali metal hydroxide or
alkaline earth metal hydroxide, or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include
organic salts derived from amino acids, such as glycine and arginine, ammonia,
primary, secondary, and tertiary amines, and cyclic amines, such as piperidine,
morpholine and piperazine, and inorganic salts derived from sodium, calcium,
potassium, magnesium, manganese, iron, copper, zinc, aluminum and lithium.
        [0326] In the case of agents that are solids, it is understood by those skilled in
the art that the inventive compounds and salts may exist in different crystal or
polymorphic forms, all of which are intended to be within the scope of the present
invention and specified formulas.
        [0327] The amount of a given pharmacologically active agent that is included in
a unit dose of a pharmaceutical composition according to the present invention will vary
depending upon factors such as the particular compound, disease condition and its
severity, the identity (e.g., weight) of the subject in need of treatment, but can
nevertheless be routinely determined by one skilled in the art. Typically, such
pharmaceutical compositions include a therapeutically effective quantity of the
pharmacologically active agent and an inert pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or
diluent. Typically, these compositions are prepared in unit dosage form appropriate for
the chosen route of administration, such as oral administration or parenteral
administration. A pharmacologically active agent as described above can be
administered in conventional dosage form prepared by combining a therapeutically
effective amount of such a pharmacologically active agent as an active ingredient with
                                              151

appropriate pharmaceutical carriers or diluents according to conventional procedures.
These procedures may involve mixing, granulating and compressing or dissolving the
ingredients as appropriate to the desired preparation. The pharmaceutical carrier
employed may be either a solid or liquid. Exemplary of solid carriers are lactose,
sucrose, talc, gelatin, agar, pectin, acacia, magnesium stearate, stearic acid and the
like. Exemplary of liquid carriers are syrup, peanut oil, olive oil, water and the like.
Similarly, the carrier or diluent may include time-delay or time-release material known in
the art, such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax,
ethylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, methylmethacrylate and the like.
        [0328] A variety of pharmaceutical forms can be employed. Thus, if a solid
carrier is used, the preparation can be tableted, placed in a hard gelatin capsule in
powder or pellet form or in the form of a troche or lozenge. The amount of solid carrier
may vary, but generally will be from about 25 mg to about 1 g. If a liquid carrier is used,
the preparation will be in the form of syrup, emulsion, soft gelatin capsule, sterile
injectable solution or suspension in an ampoule or vial or non-aqueous liquid
suspension.
        [0329] To obtain a stable water-soluble dose form, a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt of a pharmacologically active agent as described above is dissolved in
an aqueous solution of an organic or inorganic acid, such as 0.3 M solution of succinic
acid or citric acid. If a soluble salt form is not available, the agent may be dissolved in a
suitable cosolvent or combinations of cosolvents. Examples of suitable cosolvents
include, but are not limited to, alcohol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol 300,
polysorbate 80, glycerin and the like in concentrations ranging from 0-60% of the total
volume. In an exemplary embodiment, a compound of Formula I is dissolved in DMSO
and diluted with water. The composition may also be in the form of a solution of a salt
form of the active ingredient in an appropriate aqueous vehicle such as water or isotonic
saline or dextrose solution.
        [0330] It will be appreciated that the actual dosages of the agents used in the
compositions of this invention will vary according to the particular complex being used,
the particular composition formulated, the mode of administration and the particular site,
                                               152

host and disease and/or condition being treated. Actual dosage levels of the active
ingredients in the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be varied
so as to obtain an amount of the active ingredient which is effective to achieve the
desired therapeutic response for a particular subject, composition, and mode of
administration, without being toxic to the subject. The selected dosage level depends
upon a variety of pharmacokinetic factors including the activity of the particular
therapeutic agent, the route of administration, the time of administration, the rate of
excretion of the particular compound being employed, the severity of the condition,
other health considerations affecting the subject, and the status of liver and kidney
function of the subject. It also depends on the duration of the treatment, other drugs,
compounds and/or materials used in combination with the particular therapeutic agent
employed, as well as the age, weight, condition, general health and prior medical history
of the subject being treated, and like factors. Methods for determining optimal dosages
are described in the art, e.g., Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, Mack
Publishing Co.,  2 0 th ed., 2000. Optimal dosages for a given set of conditions can be
ascertained by those skilled in the art using conventional dosage-determination tests in
view of the experimental data for an agent. For oral administration, an exemplary daily
dose generally employed is from about 0.001 to about 3000 mg/kg of body weight, with
courses of treatment repeated at appropriate intervals. In some embodiments, the daily
dose is from about 1 to 3000 mg/kg of body weight.
        [0331] Typical daily doses in a patient may be anywhere between about 500 mg
to about 3000 mg, given once or twice daily, e.g., 3000 mg can be given twice daily for
a total dose of 6000 mg. In one embodiment, the dose is between about 1000 to about
3000 mg. In another embodiment, the dose is between about 1500 to about 2800 mg.
In other embodiments, the dose is between about 2000 to about 3000 mg.
        [0332] Plasma concentrations in the subjects may be between about 100 pM to
about 1000 pM. In some embodiments, the plasma concentration may be between
about 200 pM to about 800 pM. In other embodiments, the concentration is about 300
pM to about 600 pM. In still other embodiments the plasma concentration may be
between about 400 to about 800 pM. Administration of prodrugs is typically dosed at
                                             153

weight levels, which are chemically equivalent to the weight levels of the fully active
form.
        [0333] The compositions of the invention may be manufactured using
techniques generally known for preparing pharmaceutical compositions, e.g., by
conventional techniques such as mixing, dissolving, granulating, dragee-making,
levigating, emulsifying, encapsulating, entrapping or lyophilizing. Pharmaceutical
compositions may be formulated in a conventional manner using one or more
physiologically acceptable carriers, which may be selected from excipients and
auxiliaries that facilitate processing of the active compounds into preparations, which
can be used pharmaceutically.
        [0334] Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen.
For injection, the agents of the invention may be formulated into aqueous solutions,
preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hanks's solution, Ringer's
solution, or physiological saline buffer. For transmucosal administration, penetrants
appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants
are generally known in the art.
        [0335] For oral administration, the compounds can be formulated readily by
combining the active compounds with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers known in
the art. Such carriers enable the compounds of the invention to be formulated as
tablets, pills, dragees, capsules, liquids, gels, syrups, slurries, solutions, suspensions
and the like, for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. Pharmaceutical preparations
for oral use can be obtained using a solid excipient in admixture with the active
ingredient (agent), optionally grinding the resulting mixture, and processing the mixture
of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries, if desired, to obtain tablets or dragee cores.
Suitable excipients include: fillers such as sugars, including lactose, sucrose, mannitol,
or sorbitol; and cellulose preparations, for example, maize starch, wheat starch, rice
starch, potato starch, gelatin, gum, methyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose,
sodium carboxymethylcellulose, or polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP). If desired, disintegrating
agents may be added, such as crosslinked polyvinyl pyrrolidone, agar, or alginic acid or
a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.
                                              154

        [0336] Dragee cores are provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose,
concentrated sugar solutions may be used, which may optionally contain gum arabic,
polyvinyl pyrrolidone, Carbopol gel, polyethylene glycol, and/or titanium dioxide, lacquer
solutions, and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments may
be added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different
combinations of active agents.
        [0337] Pharmaceutical preparations which can be used orally include push-fit
capsules made of gelatin, as well as soft, sealed capsules made of gelatin and a
plasticizer, such as glycerol or sorbitol. The push-fit capsules can contain the active
ingredients in admixture with fillers such as lactose, binders such as starches, and/or
lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate, and, optionally, stabilizers. In soft
capsules, the active agents may be dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids, such as
fatty oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition, stabilizers may be
added. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for such
administration. For buccal administration, the compositions may take the form of tablets
or lozenges formulated in conventional manner.
        [0338] Pharmaceutical formulations for parenteral administration can include
aqueous solutions or suspensions. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty
oils such as sesame oil or synthetic fatty acid esters, such as ethyl oleate or
triglycerides. Aqueous injection suspensions may contain substances which increase
the viscosity of the suspension, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, sorbitol, or
dextran. Optionally, the suspension may also contain suitable stabilizers or modulators
which increase the solubility or dispersibility of the composition to allow for the
preparation of highly concentrated solutions, or can contain suspending or dispersing
agents. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by combining the
pharmacologically active agent with solid excipients, optionally grinding a resulting
mixture, and processing the mixture of granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries, if
desired, to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients are, in particular, fillers
such as sugars, including lactose, sucrose, mannitol, or sorbitol; cellulose preparations
such as, for example, maize starch, wheat starch, rice starch, potato starch, gelatin,
                                                 155

gum tragacanth, methyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose, sodium
carboxymethylcellulose, and/or polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP). If desired, disintegrating
modulators may be added, such as the cross-linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone, agar, or
alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.
        [0339] Other ingredients such as stabilizers, for example, antioxidants such as
sodium citrate, ascorbyl palmitate, propyl gallate, reducing agents, ascorbic acid,
vitamin E, sodium bisulfite, butylated hydroxytoluene, BHA, acetylcysteine,
monothioglycerol, phenyl-a-naphthylamine, or lecithin can be used. Also, chelators
such as EDTA can be used. Other ingredients that are conventional in the area of
pharmaceutical compositions and formulations, such as lubricants in tablets or pills,
coloring agents, or flavoring agents, can be used. Also, conventional pharmaceutical
excipients or carriers can be used. The pharmaceutical excipients can include, but are
not necessarily limited to, calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, various sugars or
types of starch, cellulose derivatives, gelatin, vegetable oils, polyethylene glycols and
physiologically compatible solvents. Other pharmaceutical excipients are well known in
the art. Exemplary pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include, but are not limited to,
any and/or all of solvents, including aqueous and non-aqueous solvents, dispersion
media, coatings, antibacterial and/or antifungal agents, isotonic and/or absorption
delaying agents, and/or the like. The use of such media and/or agents for
pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any
conventional medium, carrier, or agent is incompatible with the active ingredient or
ingredients, its use in a composition according to the present invention is contemplated.
Supplementary active ingredients can also be incorporated into the compositions,
particularly as described above. For administration of any of the compounds used in
the present invention, preparations should meet sterility, pyrogenicity, general safety,
and purity standards as required by the FDA Office of Biologics Standards or by other
regulatory organizations regulating drugs.
        [0340] For administration intranasally or by inhalation, the compounds for use
according to the present invention are conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol
spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer, with the use of a suitable
                                             156

propellant, e.g., dichlorodifluoromethane, trichlorofluoromethane,
dichlorotetrafluoroethane, carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a
pressurized aerosol, the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver
a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator
and the like may be formulated containing a powder mix of the compound and a suitable
powder base such as lactose or starch.
         [0341] The compounds may be formulated for parenteral administration by
injection, e.g., by bolus injection or continuous infusion. Formulations for injection may
be presented in unit-dosage form, e.g., in ampoules or in multi-dose containers, with an
added preservative. The compositions may take such forms as suspensions, solutions
or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, and may contain formulatory agents such as
suspending, stabilizing and/or dispersing agents.
         [0342] Pharmaceutical formulations for parenteral administration include
aqueous solutions of the active compounds in water-soluble form. Additionally,
suspensions of the active agents may be prepared as appropriate oily injection
suspensions. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils such as sesame
oil, or synthetic fatty acid esters, such as ethyl oleate or triglycerides, or liposomes.
Aqueous injection suspensions may contain substances that increase the viscosity of
the suspension, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, sorbitol, or dextran.
Optionally, the suspension may also contain suitable stabilizers or agents, which
increase the solubility of the compounds to allow for the preparation of highly
concentrated solutions.
         [0343] Alternatively, the active ingredient may be in powder form for constitution
with a suitable vehicle, e.g., sterile pyrogen-free water, before use. The compounds
may also be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention
enemas, e.g., containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other
glycerides.
         [0344] In addition to the formulations described above, the compounds may also
be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long-acting formulations may be
administered by implantation (for example, subcutaneously or intramuscularly) or by
                                              157

intramuscular injection. Thus, for example, the compounds may be formulated with
suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials (for example, as an emulsion in an
acceptable oil) or ion-exchange resins, or as sparingly soluble derivatives, for example,
as a sparingly soluble salt.
        [0345] An exemplary pharmaceutical carrier for hydrophobic compounds is a
cosolvent system comprising benzyl alcohol, a nonpolar surfactant, a water-miscible
organic polymer, and an aqueous phase. The cosolvent system may be a VPD co
solvent system. VPD is a solution of 3% w/v benzyl alcohol, 8% w/v of the nonpolar
surfactant polysorbate 80, and 65% w/v polyethylene glycol 300, made up to volume in
absolute ethanol. The VPD co-solvent system (VPD:5W) contains VPD diluted 1:1 with
a 5% dextrose in water solution. This co-solvent system dissolves hydrophobic
compounds well, and itself produces low toxicity upon systemic administration.
Naturally, the proportions of a co-solvent system may be varied considerably without
destroying its solubility and toxicity characteristics. Furthermore, the identity of the co
solvent components may be varied: for example, other low-toxicity nonpolar surfactants
may be used instead of polysorbate 80; the fraction size of polyethylene glycol may be
varied; other biocompatible polymers may replace polyethylene glycol, e.g. polyvinyl
pyrrolidone; and other sugars or polysaccharides may be substituted for dextrose.
        [0346] Alternatively, other delivery systems for hydrophobic pharmaceutical
compounds may be employed. Liposomes and emulsions are known examples of
delivery vehicles or carriers for hydrophobic drugs. Certain organic solvents such as
dimethylsulfoxide also may be employed, although usually at the cost of greater toxicity.
Additionally, the compounds may be delivered using a sustained-release system, such
as semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the therapeutic
agent. Various sustained-release materials have been established and are known by
those skilled in the art. Sustained-release capsules may, depending on their chemical
nature, release the compounds for a few weeks up to over 100 days. Depending on the
chemical nature and the biological stability of the therapeutic reagent, additional
strategies for protein stabilization may be employed.
                                              158

         [0347] The pharmaceutical compositions also may comprise suitable solid- or
gel-phase carriers or excipients. Examples of such carriers or excipients include
calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, sugars, starches, cellulose derivatives, gelatin,
and polymers such as polyethylene glycols.
         [0348] A pharmaceutical composition can be administered by a variety of
methods known in the art. The routes and/or modes of administration vary depending
upon the desired results. Depending on the route of administration, the
pharmacologically active agent may be coated in a material to protect the targeting
composition or other therapeutic agent from the action of acids and other compounds
that may inactivate the agent. Conventional pharmaceutical practice can be employed
to provide suitable formulations or compositions for the administration of such
pharmaceutical compositions to subjects. Any appropriate route of administration can
be employed, for example, but not limited to, intravenous, parenteral, intraperitoneal,
intravenous, transcutaneous, subcutaneous, intramuscular, intraurethral, or oral
administration. Depending on the severity of the malignancy or other disease, disorder,
or condition to be treated, as well as other conditions affecting the subject to be treated,
either systemic or localized delivery of the pharmaceutical composition can be used in
the course of treatment. The pharmaceutical composition as described above can be
administered together with additional therapeutic agents intended to treat a particular
disease or condition, which may be the same disease or condition that the
pharmaceutical composition is intended to treat, which may be a related disease or
condition, or which even may be an unrelated disease or condition.
         [0349] Pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention can be
prepared in accordance with methods well known and routinely practiced in the art.
See, e.g., Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, Mack Publishing Co.,
2 0 th ed., 2000; and Sustained and Controlled Release Drug Delivery Systems, J.R.
Robinson, ed., Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, 1978. Pharmaceutical compositions are
preferably manufactured under GMP conditions. Formulations for parenteral
administration may, for example, contain excipients, sterile water, or saline,
polyalkylene glycols such as polyethylene glycol, oils of vegetable origin, or
                                             159

hydrogenated naphthalenes. Biocompatible, biodegradable lactide polymers,
lactide/glycolide copolymers, or polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene copolymers may be
used to control the release of the compounds. Other potentially useful parenteral
delivery systems for molecules of the invention include ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer
particles, osmotic pumps, and implantable infusion systems. Formulations for inhalation
may contain excipients, for example, lactose, or may be aqueous solutions containing,
e.g., polyoxyethylene-9-lauryl ether, glycocholate and deoxycholate, or can be oily
solutions for administration or gels.
        [0350] Pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention are
usually administered to the subjects on multiple occasions. Intervals between single
dosages can be weekly, monthly or yearly. Intervals can also be irregular as indicated
by therapeutic response or other parameters well known in the art. Alternatively, the
pharmaceutical composition can be administered as a sustained release formulation, in
which case less frequent administration is required. Dosage and frequency vary
depending on the half-life in the subject of the pharmacologically active agent included
in a pharmaceutical composition. The dosage and frequency of administration can vary
depending on whether the treatment is prophylactic or therapeutic. In prophylactic
applications, a relatively low dosage is administered at relatively infrequent intervals
over a long period of time. Some subjects may continue to receive treatment for the
rest of their lives. In therapeutic applications, a relatively high dosage at relatively short
intervals is sometimes required until progression of the disease is reduced or
terminated, and preferably until the subject shows partial or complete amelioration of
symptoms of disease. Thereafter, the subject can be administered a prophylactic
regime.
        [0351] For the purposes of the present application, treatment can be monitored
by observing one or more of the improving symptoms associated with the disease,
disorder, or condition being treated, or by observing one or more of the improving
clinical parameters associated with the disease, disorder, or condition being treated, as
described above.
                                              160

        [0352] Sustained-release formulations or controlled-release formulations are
well-known in the art. For example, the sustained-release or controlled-release
formulation can be (1) an oral matrix sustained-release or controlled-release
formulation; (2) an oral multilayered sustained-release or controlled-release tablet
formulation; (3) an oral multiparticulate sustained-release or controlled-release
formulation; (4) an oral osmotic sustained-release or controlled-release formulation; (5)
an oral chewable sustained-release or controlled-release formulation; or (6) a dermal
sustained-release or controlled-release patch formulation.
        [0353] The pharmacokinetic principles of controlled drug delivery are described,
for example, in B.M. Silber et al., "Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic Basis of
Controlled Drug Delivery" in Controlled Druq Delivery: Fundamentals and AIlications
(J.R. Robinson & V.H.L. Lee, eds, 2d ed., Marcel Dekker, New York, 1987), ch. 5, pp.
213-251, incorporated herein by this reference.
        [0354] One of ordinary skill in the art can readily prepare formulations for
controlled release or sustained release comprising a pharmacologically active agent
according to the present invention by modifying the formulations described above, such
as according to principles disclosed in V.H.K. Li et al, "Influence of Drug Properties and
Routes of Drug Administration on the Design of Sustained and Controlled Release
Systems" in Controlled Druq Delivery: Fundamentals and AIlications (J.R. Robinson &
V.H.L. Lee, eds, 2d ed., Marcel Dekker, New York, 1987), ch. 1, pp. 3-94, incorporated
herein by this reference. This process of preparation typically takes into account
physicochemical properties of the pharmacologically active agent, such as aqueous
solubility, partition coefficient, molecular size, stability, and nonspecific binding to
proteins and other biological macromolecules. This process of preparation also takes
into account biological factors, such as absorption, distribution, metabolism, duration of
action, the possible existence of side effects, and margin of safety, for the
pharmacologically active agent. Accordingly, one of ordinary skill in the art could modify
the formulations into a formulation having the desirable properties described above for a
particular application.
                                               161

         [0355] United States Patent No. 6,573,292 by Nardella, United States Patent
No. 6,921,722 by Nardella, United States Patent No. 7,314,886 to Chao et al., and
United States Patent No. 7,446,122 by Chao et al., which disclose methods of use of
various pharmacologically active agents and pharmaceutical compositions in treating a
number of diseases and conditions, including cancer, and methods of determining the
therapeutic effectiveness of such pharmacologically active agents and pharmaceutical
compositions, are all incorporated herein by this reference.
         [0356] For administration of meisoindigo in patients with acute myelogenous
leukemia (AML), the initial dosage can be one of: (i) 50 m.g. b.i.d. for 28 days; (ii) 75 mg
b.i.d. for 28 days; (iii) 100 mg b.i.d. for 28 days; or (iv) 125 mg b.i.d. for 28 days. The
meisoindigo is typically provided at 25 mg and 50 mg dosage strengths in soft gel
capsules. The meisoindigo can be administered orally, twice daily, once in the morning
immediately after breakfast and once in the evening immediately after dinner. The
capsules are swallowed whole with a glass of water. The capsules should not be
chewed or crushed.
         [0357] The use of meisoindigo is particularly indicated for patients who meet the
following criteria: (i) male or female patients 18 years of age or over with AML, acute
lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), or high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) (IPSS > Int
2), who are unsuitable for treatment with standard chemotherapy regimens, e.g., elderly
(> 70 years of age), poor risk (e.g., adverse risk karyotype), or who have failed up to
three lines of therapy; this can include patients with secondary AML; (ii) life expectancy
of greater than 3 months in relation to diseases other than AML, ALL, or MDS; (iii)
ECOG performance status 0-3; (iv) adequate hepatic function as defined by bilirubin
1.5 x the upper limit of normal (ULN) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine
aminotransferase (ALT)        2.5 x ULN; (v) adequate renal function, with serum creatinine
   1.5 x ULN; (vi) no uncontrolled active infection; and (vii) hydroxyurea ceased 48 hours
prior to initial administration of meisoindigo.
         [0358] Doses can be escalated to the maximum dose if no dose-limiting
toxicities are seen at a higher dose.
                                                162

         [0359] Specifically, meisoindigo induces apoptosis via suppression of Bcl-2 and
also induces cell cycle arrest via the upregulation of negative cell cycle regulators p21
and p27.
         [0360] Meisoindigo can be used together with G-CSF for the treatment or
prevention of severe neutropenic infection requiring intravenous antibiotics.
Meisoindigo can also be used together with antifungal agents such as voriconazole;
azole antifungals might have some effect on higher meisoindigo exposures, so that
dosage adjustment can be required when meisoindigo is administered together with
azole antifungal agents.
         [0361] The invention is illustrated by the following Examples. These Examples
are included for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the invention.
                                          EXAMPLE 1
                                   Synthesis of Meisoindigo
         [0362] Prior Process
         [0363] To synthesis meisoindigo, typically, add equal molar amount of 2
hydroxyindole and N-methyl-indolinyl-diketone, glacial acetic acid (2.0 L of glacial acetic
acid for one mole of the reaction substances), and hydrochloric acid (concentrated, 6.67
ml of HCI for one mole of the reaction substances) into three-neck flask, heat to 70- 800
C, stir for 2 h, cool to room temperature. Bulk brown crystal precipitates are then
formed. Filter, and sequentially wash with glacial acetic acid, dH2O, and ethanol. The
melting point is measured. It should be between 235-2370 C. Filter, and sequentially
wash with glacial acetic acid, dH2O, and ethanol. Melt point is measured. It should be
between 235-2370 C.
         [0364] Newly Developed Process
         [0365] An outline of the process is shown in Table 1.
                                            Table 1
             Reaction solution*  Reaction Conditions            Purification Process
              Acetic acid (15v)   70-80'C for 3 hrs     Cool to 25-30'C, filter, wash with
             Conc. HCl (0.05v)                           acetic acid (5v), water (1Ov) and
                                                                 then ethanol (1 Ov)
                                               163

       [0366] The asterisk (*) indicates that oxindole (1 equivalent) and N-methylisatin
(1 equivalent) were added to the reaction solution.
       [0367] The characterization of the reaction was as follows: Reaction mass:
SM1 (0.45%), SM2 (8.7%), drug content (73%). Solid: purity (99.9%), SM1 (0.03%),
unknown (RRT 0.86, 0.09%). Yield: 51%. Both 5-g and 50-g scales yield solid at
99.88% purity Only acetic acid (5 v) used in purification process for a 10-g batch
yielded solid at 99.95%.
       [0368] Effect of Process Parameters
       [0369] Reaction Temperature
       [0370] The reaction was carried out as described above with acetic acid and
concentrated HCI except that the reaction temperature was controlled at 50-550 C or
100-1100 C, purified with acetic acid (5 v). Results are shown in Table 2.
                                          Table 2
           Scale        Reaction     Reaction      Mass         Solid
                      Temperature      Time      content, %  content, %
            log        100-110C         lh           53        99.82
            10 g        50-55 0 C       5h           65
                                        6h           77
                                        7h           73        99.91
            25 g        50-55 0 C       4h           59
                                        5h           63
                                        6h           64         99.1
       [0371] Reaction Process: Effect of Acetic Acid
       [0372] Results with varying volumes of acetic acid are shown in Table 3. The
same reaction conditions were used as for Table 1 except for the amount of acetic acid.
The solid was washed with acetic acid (5 v) and water (10 v). The above-purified solid
was washed with ethanol (10 v) to get 96.3% pure compound.
                                             164

                                           Table 3
                                           Drug Content (%)            Note
              Acetic        Reaction     Reaction        Crude
               Acid           Time        Mass           Solid
                25v            3h           57            99.6
                15v            3h           73            99.9
                lOv            3h           84            99.8   (intermediate)
          (Intermediate                                                31%
            only used)                                                 16%
               7.5v            29           39                         18%
             + water           68           56
              (7.5v)           76           58            95.1
                 5v            3h           71            79.6
                                                          84.8
       [0373] Effect of Concentrated HCI (Presence/Absence or Using
                 Other Acids)
       [0374] These results are shown in Table 4. The same reaction conditions were
used as for Table 1 except for the amount of hydrochloric acid (in some cases, indicated
by the superscript   2, the concentrated hydrochloric acid was replaced by a catalytic
amount of sulfuric acid or trifluoroacetic acid). In the experiment indicated by the
superscript 3, acetic acid was reduced from 15 v to 7.5 v with additional 7.5 v of water.
                                           Table 4
                                           Drug Content (%)            Note
              Acetic        Reaction     Reaction        Crude
              Acid'           Time        Mass           Solid
                25v            3h           57            99.6
                15v            3h           73            99.9
                lOv            3h           84            99.8   (intermediate)
          (Intermediate                                                31%
            only used)                                                 16%
               7.5v            29           39                         18%
             + water           68           56
              (7.5v)           76           58            95.1
                 5v            3 h          71           79.62
                                                         84.83
       [0375] Effect of HCI Concentration
                                               165

        [0376] The effect of varying HCI concentration is shown in Tables 5, 6, 7, and 8.
In Table 5, superscript 5 indicates that acetic acid/concentrated HCI was replaced with
various concentrations of HCI. Acetic acid (5 v) was added after 46 hours to the
reaction solution. Tables 6 and 7 show the effect of several solvents used for the
purification process. Table 8 shows the results of varying purification processes of the
solid from an 8N HCI process.
                                           Table 5
            8N HCl (15v)        6h              51
               10-g scale      10 h             96           96.4'
            8N HCl (15v)        4h              68
              50-g scale        6h              92
                                8h              96
                               10h              95           97.2'         SM-2
            8N HCl (15v)       10h             93.3                          2.1
               10-g scale      12 h            93.3                          2.0
                               14 h            93.8           96.3           1.8
            8N HCl (15v)                                     (wet)         Yield
              100-g scale      10 h                           94.4          96%
                                           Table 6
           Solvent               Temperature/time      Followed by         Purity
           Ethanol (lOv)          70-75'C for 1 h     25-30'C for 1 h      98.5%
           Ethyl acetate (10v)    65-70'C for 1 h     25-30'C for 1 h      97.0%
           IPA (5v)               70-75'C for 1 h     25-30'C for 1 h      98.5%
           Acetone (5v)           55-60'C for 1 h     25-30'C for 1 h      97.2%
           Acetic acid (5v)       70-75'C for 1 h     25-30'C for 1 h      98.8%
                                           Table 7
           Solvent (15v)         Temperature/time      Followed by         Purity
           Acetic acid            70-75'C for 1 h     25-30'C for 1 h     98.94%
           50% HOAc in EtOH       70-75'C for 1 h     25-30'C for 1 h     99.48%
                                             166

                                           Table 8
                Scale      Solvent (15v)            70-75 0 C      25-30 0 C      Purity
                1O-g       Acetic acid                 1h             1h          99.6%
                           50% HOAc in EtOH            1h             1h         99.85%
                50-g       50% HOAc in EtOH            1h             1h
                           50% HOAc in EtOH             -             3h
        [0377] Effect of Variation of N-Methylisatin Equivalents
        [0378] The effect of varying the quantity of N-methylisatin is shown in Table 9.
                                           Table 9
                 Scale        Reaction         Drug Content (%)              N-Methyl
                                Time      Reaction Mass     Crude Solid      isatin equ.
                  50g            3h             73              99.9               1
                  log            3h             66             99.95             0.9
                  log            3 h            58            99.2%               1.2
        [0379] Modification of the Process for GMP Manufacturing
        [0380] Reaction material with 8N HCI had HCI fumes during filtration. Therefore
the process was modified using acetic acid and 8N HCI at 1:1 ratio (5v), heated at 70
800C for 6 hours followed by recrystallization with ethanol or methanol yielding drug with
purity of 99.7% and 99.45%, respectively.
        [0381] 10-g scale lot yielded 63% and 50-g scale yielded 67.5% with purity of
99.37% and impurity profile of 50-g scale (Lot B502/08) as described below.           If the HCI
was reduced to catalytic amount, the yield was reduced to 44%, about 50% conversion
after 8 hrs. Results are shown in Table 10. Table 11 shows the effect of reaction time
on impurity profiles. Table 12 shows purity and yield for several batches. For the
results shown in Table 12, superscript 1 indicates that, to improve the thickness of
reaction mass, volume was increased; the reaction was completed in 2 hours;
superscript  2 indicates that purity was determined in the crude material; and superscript
                                             167

3 indicates that the purity in crude material was 99.6%, purified material was 99.9%
using ethanol volume of 6 v of wet material.
                                                  Table 10
         RRT        Crude       Purified with MeOH
         0.45        0.04         0.01 (KSM-1)
         0.59        --           --      (intermediate)
         0.87        0.25         0.09
         0.91        0.11         0.02
         0.96        0.35         0.17
                                                  Table 11
     RT        RRT        2h          3h          4h         5h    6h        7h    Crude
    7.2        0.45      5.71        4.99        4.76       4.57  4.76       5.1    0.04
    8.75       0.54      0.37        0.51        0.74       0.85  1.03      1.39    0.03
   11.26       0.70       0.8        0.74        0.68       0.68  0.73      0.77    0.02
   11.86       0.74      4.08        3.77        3.59        3.6   3.8      4.12    0.09
   12.42       0.77      0.89        0.81        0.79       0.75  0.82       0.8    0.02
   14.02       0.87      5.94        5.67        5.41       5.52  5.71      6.46    0.25
   14.19       0.88      6.32        5.79        5.78       5.53  5.86      6.42    0.16
   14.63       0.91      2.42        2.31         2.4       2.32  2.54      2.89    0.11
    15.4       0.96       0.1         0.2        0.21       0.27  0.34      0.46    0.35
   16.12       1.00     71.57       73.26       73.84      73.74 72.02     68.59   98.66
                                                  Table 12
           Lot B502           Scale           HOAc:8N HC          %Purity        Yield
              08              50 g               1:1, 5V each       99.37        68%
              10              100 g              1:1, 5V each       99.06        75%
              12              50 g             1:1, 7.5V each'      99.732       79%
              13              100 g            1:1, 7.5V each       99.90,       80%
         [0382] Preparation of Intermediate Reference Material
                                                      168

        [0383] As shown in the study of the effect of HCI concentration, it was shown
that a significant amount (82%) of intermediate was formed after reaction in 1N HCI for
48 hours with drug content of 11.5% in the crude solid. This intermediate was not
stable and degraded upon storage at room temperature. A second reaction with crude
solid containing 75.2% intermediate and 21.1 % drug was purified to prepare the
intermediate reference material.
                                        EXAMPLE 2
                   Effect of Meisoindiqo on Viability of Cancer Cell Lines
        [0384] Figure 1 shows the viability of the AML cell line MV 4-11 (FLT-3 ITD)
after meisoindigo treatments. Viability at 48 hours is shown by (+); viability at 24 hours
is shown by (m).   Results are shown for a control, 1% DMSO without meisoindigo, 0.1
pM meisoindigo, 1 pM meisoindigo, 10 pM meisoindigo, and 100 pM meisoindigo.
        [0385] Figure 2 shows the viability of a number of myeloid cell lines in terms of
the percentage of viable cells after 24 hours of treatment with meisoindigo. Results are
shown for a control, 1% DMSO without meisoindigo, 0.1 pM meisoindigo, 1 pM
meisoindigo, 10 pM meisoindigo, and 100 pM meisoindigo.
        [0386] Figure 3 shows the viability of a number of additional myeloid cell lines in
terms of the percentage of viable cells after 24 hours of treatment with meisoindigo.
Results are shown for a control, 1% DMSO without meisoindigo, 0.1 pM meisoindigo, 1
pM meisoindigo, 10 pM meisoindigo, and 100 pM meisoindigo.
        [0387] Figure 4 shows the targeting of kinases by meisoindigo.
        [0388] Figure 5 shows the overall survival with meisoindigo, alone and with
hydroxyurea, in chronic myelogenous leukemia, together with the results for busulfan.
        [0389] These results indicate that meisoindigo is effective in killing a number of
malignant cell lines, particularly AML cell lines.
                            ADVANTAGES OF THE INVENTION
        [0390] The present invention provides more effective and efficient methods of
using therapeutic drugs that have previously been evaluated for treatment of a number
of diseases and conditions, especially hyperproliferative disorders, but whose
                                              169

evaluations resulted in a premature conclusion of lack of sufficient efficacy or of
occurrence of side effects sufficient to prevent the use of the therapeutic drug. Such
more effective and efficient methods of therapeutic drugs will improve efficacy, prevent
or reduce the occurrence of significant side effects, and will identify categories of
patients and situations in which such drugs can be effectively employed. These
therapeutic drugs include, but are not limited to, indirubin, an analog of indirubin, or a
derivative of indirubin or of an analog of indirubin, in particular, meisoindigo.
         [0391] Methods according to the present invention possess industrial
applicability for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of a number of
diseases and conditions, especially hyperproliferative diseases, and possess industrial
applicability as pharmaceutical compositions.
         [0392] The method claims of the present invention provide specific method
steps that are more than general applications of laws of nature and require that those
practicing the method steps employ steps other than those conventionally known in the
art, in addition to the specific applications of laws of nature recited or implied in the
claims, and thus confine the scope of the claims to the specific applications recited
therein. In some contexts, these claims are directed to new ways of using an existing
drug.
         [0393] The inventions illustratively described herein can suitably be practiced in
the absence of any element or elements, limitation or limitations, not specifically
disclosed herein. Thus, for example, the terms "comprising," "including," "containing,"
etc. shall be read expansively and without limitation. Additionally, the terms and
expressions employed herein have been used as terms of description and not of
limitation, and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of
excluding any equivalents of the future shown and described or any portion thereof, and
it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention
claimed. Thus, it should be understood that although the present invention has been
specifically disclosed by preferred embodiments and optional features, modification and
variation of the inventions herein disclosed can be resorted by those skilled in the art,
and that such modifications and variations are considered to be within the scope of the
                                              170

inventions disclosed herein. The inventions have been described broadly and
generically herein. Each of the narrower species and subgeneric groupings falling
within the scope of the generic disclosure also form part of these inventions. This
includes the generic description of each invention with a proviso or negative limitation
removing any subject matter from the genus, regardless of whether or not the excised
materials specifically resided therein.
        [0394] In addition, where features or aspects of an invention are described in
terms of the Markush group, those schooled in the art will recognize that the invention is
also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of
the Markush group. It is also to be understood that the above description is intended to
be illustrative and not restrictive. Many embodiments will be apparent to those of in the
art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore,
be determined not with reference to the above description, but should instead be
determined with reference to the appended claims, along with the full scope of
equivalents to which such claims are entitled. The disclosures of all articles and
references, including patent publications, are incorporated herein by reference.
                                            171

                                                 172
CLAIMS
1.         A method to improve the efficacy and/or reduce the side effects of suboptimally
administered drug therapy comprising the steps of:
                 (a)     identifying at least one factor or parameter associated with the efficacy
and/or occurrence of side effects of the drug therapy; and
                 (b)     modifying the factor or parameter to improve the efficacy and/or
reduce the side effects of the drug therapy, wherein the suboptimally administered drug
therapy comprises administration of a therapeutically active agent selected from the group
consisting of: (i) meisoindigo, (ii) a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of meisoindigo; (iii) a
derivative of meisoindigo wherein the derivative has one or more hydrogen atoms of the
benzene rings replaced with a halo or lower alkyl moiety or has the hydrogen attached to the
nitrogen of the five-membered rings replaced with lower alkyl; (iv) a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt of the derivative of meisoindigo; and (v) a pharmaceutical composition
comprising meisoindigo, the derivative of meisoindigo, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt
of meisoindigo, or the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the derivative of meisoindigo; and
wherein the drug therapy is administered to treat a form of cancer selected from the group
consisting of acute myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, and colorectal
cancer.
                 2.      The method of claim 1 wherein the factor or parameter is selected
from the group consisting of:
                 (a)     dose modification;
                 (b)     route of administration;
                 (c)     schedule of administration;
                 (d)     indications for use;
                 (e)     selection of disease stage;
                 (f)     other indications;
                 (g)     patient selection;
                 (h)     patient/disease phenotype;
                 (i)     patient/disease genotype;
                 (j)     pre/post-treatment preparation
                 (k)     toxicity management;
                 (1)     pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic monitoring;
                 (m)     drug combinations;
                 (n)     chemosensitization;
                 (o)     chemopotentiation;
                 (p)     post-treatment patient management;
13664687 1

                                                173
                (q)    alternative medicine/therapeutic support;
                (r)    bulk drug product improvements;
                (s)    diluent systems;
                (t)    solvent systems;
                (u)    excipients;
                (v)    dosage forms;
                (w)    drug delivery systems;
                (x)    drug conjugate forms;
                (y)    prodrugs;
                (z)     multiple drug systems;
                (aa)   biotherapeutic enhancement;
                (ab)   biotherapeutic resistance modulation;
                (ac)    radiation therapy enhancement;
                (ad)    novel mechanisms of action; and
                (ae)   selective target cell population therapeutics.
                3.     The method of claim 1 wherein the therapeutically active agent is
meisoindigo.
                4.     The method of claim 1 wherein the therapeutically active agent is a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of meisoindigo or a derivative of meisoindigo and wherein
the pharmaceutically acceptable salt is selected from the group consisting of:
                (a)    a salt with a positively-charged ion selected from the group consisting
of sodium, potassium, aluminum, lithium, calcium, magnesium, zinc, ammonium, caffeine,
arginine, diethylamine, N-ethylpiperidine, histidine, glucamine, isopropylamine, lysine,
morpholine, N-ethylmorpholine, piperazine, piperidine, triethylamine, trimethylamine,
ethanolamine, diethanolamine, N-methylglucamine, and tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane;
and
                (b)    a salt with a negatively-charged ion selected from the group consisting
of chloride, bromide, iodide, carbonate, nitrate, sulfate, bisulfate, phosphate, monohydrogen
phosphate, dihydrogen phosphate, metaphosphate, pyrophosphate, formate, acetate,
adipate, butyrate, propionate, succinate, glycolate, gluconate, lactate, malate, tartrate,
citrate, ascorbate, glucuronate, maleate, fumarate, pyruvate, aspartate, glutamate,
benzoate, anthranilate, mesylate, 4'-hydroxybenzoate, phenylacetate, mandelate, embonate
(pamoate), methanesulfonate, ethanesulfonate, ethanedisulfonate, benzenesulfonate,
pantothenate, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate, sulfanilate,
cyclohexylaminosulfonate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate, digluconate,
13664687 1

                                                  174
cyclopentanepropionate, dodecylsulfonate, glucoheptanoate, glycerophosphonate,
heptanoate, hexanoate, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonate, nicotinate, isonicotinate, 1
naphthalenesulfonate, 2-naphthalenesulfonate, oxalate, palmoate, pectinate, persulfurate, 2
phenylpropionate, picrate, pivalate, thiocyanate, mesylate, undecanoate, stearate, algenate,
p-hydroxybutyrate, salicylate, galactarate, galacturonate, caprylate, isobutyrate, malonate,
suberate, sebacate, chlorobenzoate, methylbenzoate, dinitrobenzoate, phthalate,
phenylacetate, isethionate, lactobionate, p-aminobenzoate, sulfamate, diethylacetate,
pimelate, aminosulfonate, acrylate, y-hydroxybutyrate, and methoxybenzoate.
                   5.     The method of claim 2 wherein the improvement is made by:
                   (a)    dose modification, wherein the dose modification is a modification
selected from the group consisting of:
                          (i)     continuous i.v. infusion for hours to days;
                          (ii)    biweekly administration;
                          (iii)   doses greater than 5 mg/m 2/day;
                          (iv)    progressive escalation of dosing from 1 mg/m 2/day based on
patient tolerance;
                          (v)     use of caffeine to modulate metabolism;
                          (vi)    use of isoniazid to modulate metabolism;
                          (vii)   selected and intermittent boosting of dosage administration;
                          (viii)  administration of single and multiple doses escalating from 5
mg/m     2/day via bolus;
                          (ix)    oral dosages of below 30 mg/m 2;
                          (x)     oral dosages of above 130 mg/m 2.;
                          (xi)    chronic low dose administration of from about 10 mg/day to
about 25 mg/day;
                          (xii)   intermittent administration of from about 50 mg to about 150
mg twice weekly or three times weekly;
                          (xiii)  administration of from about 50 mg/day to about 150 mg/day
for 10-14 days per month; and
                          (xiv)   chronic daily dosing at a dose of equal to or greater than 100
mg/day;
                   (b)    route of administration, wherein the route of administration is selected
from the group consisting of:
                          (i)     topical administration;
                          (ii)    intravesicular administration for bladder cancer;
13664687 1

                                                 175
                        (iii)   oral administration;
                        (iv)    slow release oral delivery;
                        (v)     intrathecal administration;
                        (vi)    intraarterial administration;
                        (vii)   continuous infusion; and
                        (ix)    intermittent infusion;
                (c)     schedule of administration, wherein the schedule of administration is
selected from the group consisting of:
                        (i)     daily administration;
                        (ii)    weekly administration;
                        (iii)   weekly administration for three weeks;
                        (iv)    biweekly administration;
                        (v)     biweekly administration for three weeks with a 1-2 week rest
period;
                        (vi)    intermittent boost dose administration; and
                        (vii)   daily administration for one week for multiple weeks;
                (d)     patient selection, wherein the patient selection is carried out by a
criterion selected from the group consisting of:
                        (i)     selecting patients with a disease condition characterized by a
high level of a metabolic enzyme selected from the group consisting of histone deacetylase
and ornithine decarboxylase;
                        (ii)    selecting patients with a low or high susceptibility to a condition
selected from the group consisting of thrombocytopenia and neutropenia;
                        (iii)   selecting patients intolerant of GI toxicities; and
                        (iv)    selecting patients characterized by over- or under-expression
of a gene selected from the group consisting of c-Jun, a GPCR, a signal transduction
protein, VEGF, a prostate-specific gene, and a protein kinase;
                (e)     analysis of patient or disease phenotype, wherein the analysis of
patient or disease phenotype is carried out by a method selected from the group consisting
of:
                        (i)     use of a diagnostic tool, a diagnostic technique, a diagnostic
kit, or a diagnostic assay to confirm a patient's particular phenotype;
                        (ii)    use of a method for measurement of a marker selected from
the group consisting of histone deacetylase, ornithine decarboxylase, VEGF, a protein that is
a gene product of a prostate specific gene, a protein that is a gene product of jun, and a
protein kinase;
                        (iii)   surrogate compound dosing; and
13664687 1

                                                 176
                        (iv)     low dose pre-testing for enzymatic status;
                (f)     analysis of patient or disease genotype, wherein the analysis of
patient or disease genotype is carried out by a method selected from the group consisting of:
                        (i)      use of a diagnostic tool, a diagnostic technique, a diagnostic
kit, or a diagnostic assay to confirm a patient's particular genotype;
                        (ii)     use of a gene chip;
                        (iii)    use of gene expression analysis;
                        (iv)     use of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis; and
                        (v)      measurement of the level of a metabolite or a metabolic
enzyme;
                (g)     pre/post treatment preparation, wherein the pre/post treatment
preparation is selected from the group consisting of:
                        (i)      the use of colchicine or an analog thereof;
                        (ii)     the use of a uricosuric;
                        (iii)    the use of uricase;
                        (iv)     the non-oral use of nicotinamide;
                        (v)      the use of a sustained-release form of nicotinamide;
                        (vi)     the use of an inhibitor of poly-ADP ribose polymerase;
                        (vii)    the use of caffeine;
                        (viii)   the use of leucovorin rescue;
                        (ix)     infection control; and
                        (x)      the use of an anti-hypertensive agent;
                (h)     toxicity management, wherein the toxicity management is selected
from the group consisting of:
                        (i)      the use of colchicine or an analog thereof;
                        (ii)     the use of a uricosuric;
                        (iii)    the use of uricase;
                        (iv)     the non-oral use of nicotinamide;
                        (v)      the use of a sustained-release form of nicotinamide;
                        (vi)     the use of an inhibitor of poly-ADP ribose polymerase;
                        (vii)    the use of caffeine;
                        (viii)   the use of leucovorin rescue;
                        (ix)     the use of sustained-release allopurinol;
                        (x)      the non-oral use of allopurinol;
                        (xi)     the use of bone marrow transplants;
                        (xii)    the use of a blood cell stimulant;
                        (xiii)   the use of blood or platelet infusions;
13664687 1

                                                177
                        (xiv)   the administration of an agent selected from the group
consisting of filgrastim (Neupogen@), G-CSF, and GM-CSF;
                        (xv)    the application of a pain management technique;
                        (xvi)   the administration of an anti-inflammatory agent;
                        (xvii)  the administration of fluids;
                        (xviii) the administration of a corticosteroid;
                        (xix)   the administration of an insulin control medication;
                        (xx)    the administration of an antipyretic;
                        (xxi)   the administration of an anti-nausea treatment;
                        (xxii)  the administration of an anti-diarrheal treatment;
                        (xxiii) the administration of N-acetylcysteine; and
                        (xxiv) the administration of an antihistamine;
                 (i)    pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic monitoring, wherein the
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic monitoring is performed by a method selected from the
group consisting of:
                        (i)     multiple determinations of blood plasma levels; and
                        (ii)    multiple determinations of at least one metabolite in blood or
urine;
                 (j)    drug combination, wherein the drug combination is selected from the
group consisting of:
                        (i)     use with topoisomerase inhibitors;
                        (ii)    use with fraudulent nucleosides;
                        (iii)   use with fraudulent nucleotides;
                        (iv)    use with thymidylate synthetase inhibitors;
                        (v)     use with signal transduction inhibitors;
                        (vi)    use with cisplatin or platinum analogs;
                        (vii)   use with alkylating agents;
                        (viii)  use with anti-tubulin agents;
                        (ix)    use with antimetabolites;
                        (x)     use with berberine;
                        (xi)    use with apigenin;
                        (xii)   use with amonafide;
                        (xiii)  use with colchicine or an analog thereof;
                        (xiv)   use with genistein;
                        (xv)    use with etoposide;
                        (xvi)   use with cytarabine;
                        (xvii)  use with a camptothecin;
13664687 1

                                                 178
                       (xviii)   use with a vinca alkaloid;
                       (xix)     use with 5-fluorouracil;
                       (xx)      use with curcumin;
                       (xxi)     use with an NF-icB inhibitor;
                       (xxii)    use with rosmarinic acid;
                       (xxiii)   use with mitoguazone;
                       (xxiv) use with tetandrine;
                       (xxv)     use with an antineoplastic agent not metabolized by
cytochrome P450 CYP 1A2 or CYP 2C19;
                       (xxvi) use with a biological therapy;
                       (xxvii) use with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor;
                       (xxviii) use with all-trans-retinoic acid;
                       (xxix) use with an arsenical;
                       (xxx)     use with hydroxyurea;
                       (xxxi) use with thioguanine;
                       (xxxii) use with mercaptopurine;
                       (xxxiii) use with homoharringtonine;
                       (xxxiv) use with oridonin;
                       (xxxv) use with uracil mustard;
                       (xxxvi) use with nilotinib;
                       (xxxvii) use with dasatinib;
                       (xxxviii)         use with lonidamine;
                       (xxxix) use with 5-azacytidine;
                       (xl)      use with thalidomide or an analog thereof;
                       (xli)     use with an EGFR inhibitor;
                       (xlii)    use with a gold salt;
                       (xliii)   use with dibromodulcitol;
                       (xliv)    use with dianhydrogalactitol;
                       (xlv)     use with decitabine; and
                       (xlvi)    use with a proteasome inhibitor;
               (k)    chemosensitization, wherein the chemosensitization comprises the
use of the therapeutically active agent as a chemosensitizer in combination with an agent
selected from the group consisting of:
                       (i)      topoisomerase inhibitors;
                       (ii)     fraudulent nucleosides;
                       (iii)    fraudulent nucleotides;
                       (iv)     thymidylate synthetase inhibitors;
13664687 1

                                                 179
                        (v)     signal transduction inhibitors;
                        (vi)    cisplatin or platinum analogs;
                        (vii)   alkylating agents;
                        (viii)  anti-tubulin agents;
                        (ix)    antimetabolites;
                        (x)     berberine;
                        (xi)    apigenin;
                        (xii)   amonafide;
                        (xiii)  vinca alkaloids;
                        (xiv)   5-fluorouracil;
                        (xv)    curcumin;
                        (xvi)   NF-KB inhibitors;
                        (xvii)  rosmarinic acid;
                        (xviii) mitoguazone;
                        (xix)   tetrandrine; and
                        (xx)    proteasome inhibitors;
               (I)      chemopotentiation, wherein the chemopotentiation comprises the use
of the therapeutically active agent as a chemopotentiator in combination with an agent
selected from the group consisting of:
                        (i)     topoisomerase inhibitors;
                        (ii)    fraudulent nucleosides;
                        (iii)   fraudulent nucleotides;
                        (iv)    thymidylate synthetase inhibitors;
                        (v)     signal transduction inhibitors;
                        (vi)    cisplatin or platinum analogs;
                        (vii)   alkylating agents;
                        (viii)  anti-tubulin agents;
                        (ix)    antimetabolites;
                        (x)     berberine;
                        (xi)    apigenin;
                        (xii)   amonafide;
                        (xiii)  vinca alkaloids;
                        (xiv)   5-fluorouracil;
                        (xv)    curcumin;
                        (xvi)   NF-KB inhibitors;
                        (xvii)  rosmarinic acid;
13664687 1

                                               180
                       (xviii) mitoguazone;
                       (xix)   tetrandrine; and
                       (xx)    proteasome inhibitors; or
                (m)    post-treatment management, wherein the post-treatment management
is selected from the group consisting of:
                       (i)     a therapy associated with pain management;
                       (ii)    administration of an anti-emetic;
                       (iii)   an anti-nausea therapy;
                       (iv)    administration of an anti-inflammatory agent;
                       (v)     administration of an anti-pyretic agent; and
                       (vi)    administration of an immune stimulant.
                6.     The method of claim 2, wherein the improvement is made by:
                (a)    a bulk drug product improvement, wherein the bulk drug product
improvement is selected from the group consisting of:
                       (i)     salt formation;
                       (ii)    preparation as a homogeneous crystal structure;
                       (iii)   preparation as a pure isomer;
                       (iv)    increased purity;
                       (v)     preparation with lower residual solvent content; and
                       (vi)    preparation with lower residual heavy metal content;
                (b)    use of a diluent, wherein the diluent is selected from the group
consisting of:
                       (i)     an emulsion;
                       (ii)    dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO);
                       (iii)   N-methylformamide (NMF)
                       (iv)    DMF;
                       (v)     ethanol;
                       (vi)    benzyl alcohol;
                       (vii)   dextrose-containing water for injection;
                       (viii)  Cremophor;
                       (ix)    cyclodextrin; and
                       (x)     PEG;
                (c)    use of a solvent system, wherein the solvent system is selected from
the group consisting of:
                       (i)     an emulsion;
                       (ii)    dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO);
13664687 1

                                             181
                      (iii)   N-methylformamide (NMF)
                      (iv)    DMF;
                      (v)    ethanol;
                      (vi)   benzyl alcohol;
                      (vii)  dextrose-containing water for injection;
                      (viii) Cremophor;
                      (ix)   cyclodextrin; and
                      (x)     PEG;
               (d)    use of an excipient, wherein the excipient is selected from the group
consisting of:
                      (i)     mannitol;
                      (ii)   albumin;
                      (iii)   EDTA;
                      (iv)   sodium bisulfite;
                      (v)    benzyl alcohol;
                      (vi)   a carbonate buffer;
                      (vii)  a phosphate buffer; and
                      (viii)  methylcellulose;
               (e)    use of a dosage form, wherein the dosage form is selected from the
group consisting of:
                      (i)    tablets;
                      (ii)   capsules;
                      (iii)  topical gels;
                      (iv)   topical creams;
                      (v)    patches;
                      (vi)   suppositories; and
                      (vii)   lyophilized dosage fills;
               (f)    use of a drug delivery system, wherein the drug delivery system is
selected from the group consisting of:
                      (i)     nanocrystals;
                      (ii)   bioerodible polymers;
                      (iii)   liposomes;
                      (iv)   slow release injectable gels;
                      (v)     microspheres;
                      (vi)   vascular disrupting agents; and
                      (vii)  polymer-coated stents;
13664687 1

                                               182
                (g)    use of a drug conjugate form, wherein the drug conjugate form is
selected from the group consisting of:
                       (i)    a polymer system;
                       (ii)   polylactides;
                       (iii)  polyglycolides;
                       (iv)   amino acids;
                       (v)    peptides; and
                       (vi)    multivalent linkers;
                (h)    use of a prodrug system, wherein the prodrug system is selected from
the group consisting of:
                       (i)    the use of enzyme sensitive esters;
                       (ii)   the use of dimers;
                       (iii)  the use of Schiff bases;
                       (iv)   the use of pyridoxal complexes;
                       (v)    the use of caffeine complexes;
                       (vi)   the use of N-substituted carbohydrate derivatives;
                       (vii)  the use of Mannich N-oxides;
                       (viii) the use of products of reaction with an acylating or
carbamylating agent;
                       (ix)   the use of hexanoate conjugates;
                       (x)    the use of polymer-agent conjugates; and
                       (xi)   the use of prodrugs that are activated by bioreduction in
hypoxic cells; or
                (i)    use of a multiple drug system, wherein the multiple drug system
employs a mechanism selected from:
                       (i)     use of multi-drug resistance inhibitors;
                       (ii)    use of specific drug resistance inhibitors;
                       (iii)   use of specific inhibitors of selective enzymes;
                       (iv)    use of signal transduction inhibitors;
                       (v)     use of repair inhibition; and
                       (vi)    use of topoisomerase inhibitors with non-overlapping side
effects.
                7.     The method of claim 2, wherein the improvement is made by:
                (a)    use of biotherapeutic enhancement, wherein the biotherapeutic
enhancement is performed by use in combination as sensitizers/potentiators with a
therapeutic agent or technique selected from the group consisting of:
13664687 1

                                                 183
                        (i)     cytokines;
                        (ii)    lymphokines;
                        (iii)   therapeutic antibodies;
                        (iv)    antisense therapies;
                        (v)     gene therapies;
                        (vi)    ribozymes; and
                        (vii)   RNA interference;
                (b)     use of biotherapeutic resistance modulation, wherein the
biotherapeutic resistance modulation comprises use against tumors resistant to a
therapeutic agent or technique selected from the group consisting of:
                        (i)     biological response modifiers;
                        (ii)    cytokines;
                        (iii)   lymphokines;
                        (iv)    therapeutic antibodies;
                        (v)     antisense therapies;
                        (vi)    gene therapies;
                        (vii)   ribozymes; and
                        (viii)  RNA interference;
                (c)     radiation therapy enhancement, wherein the radiation therapy
enhancement is performed by use of an agent or technique selected from the group
consisting of:
                        (i)     hypoxic cell sensitizers;
                        (ii)    radiation sensitizers/protectors;
                        (iii)   photosensitizers;
                        (iv)    radiation repair inhibitors;
                        (v)     thiol depleters;
                        (vi)    vaso-targeted agents;
                        (vii)   DNA repair inhibitors;
                        (viii)  radioactive seeds;
                        (ix)    radionuclides;
                        (x)     radiolabeled antibodies; and
                        (xi)    brachytherapy;
                (d)     use of a novel mechanism of action, wherein the novel mechanism of
action is a therapeutic interaction with a target or mechanism selected from the group
consisting of:
                        (i)     inhibitors of poly-ADP ribose polymerase;
                        (ii)    agents that affect vasculature or vasodilation;
13664687 1

                                                184
                        (iii)   oncogenic targeted agents;
                        (iv)    signal transduction inhibitors;
                        (v)     EGFR inhibition;
                        (vi)    protein kinase C inhibition;
                        (vii)   phospholipase C downregulation;
                        (viii)  Jun downregulation;
                        (ix)    histone genes;
                        (x)     VEGF;
                        (xi)    ornithine decarboxylase;
                        (xii)   ubiquitin C;
                        (xiii)  jun D;
                        (xiv)   v-jun;
                        (xv)    GPCRs;
                        (xvi)   protein kinase A;
                        (xvii)  protein kinases other than protein kinase A;
                        (xviii) prostate specific genes;
                        (xix)   telomerase; and
                        (xx)    histone deacetylase; or
                (e)     selective target cell population therapeutics, wherein the use of
selective target cell population therapeutics is a use selected from the group consisting of:
                        (i)     use against radiation sensitive cells;
                        (ii)    use against radiation resistant cells;
                        (iii)   use against energy depleted cells; and
                        (iv)    use against endothelial cells.
               8.       A composition to improve the efficacy and/or reduce the side effects of
suboptimally administered drug therapy used for a method for treating a form of cancer
selected from the group consisting of acute myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelogenous
leukemia, and colorectal cancer comprising an alternative selected from the group consisting
of:
                (a)     a composition comprising:
                        (i)     a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent
selected from the group consisting of: (1) meisoindigo, (2) a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt of meisoindigo; (3) a derivative of meisoindigo wherein the derivative has one or more
hydrogen atoms of the benzene rings replaced with a halo or lower alkyl moiety or has the
hydrogen attached to the nitrogen of the five-membered rings replaced with lower alkyl; (4) a
13664687 1

                                                   185
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the derivative of meisoindigo; and (5) a prodrug of (1),
(2), (3), or (4); and
                           (ii)   at least one additional therapeutic agent, therapeutic agent
subject to chemosensitization, therapeutic agent subject to chemopotentiation, diluent,
excipient, solvent system, or drug delivery system, wherein the composition possesses
increased therapeutic efficacy or reduced side effects;
                  (b)      a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent selected
from the group consisting of: (1) meisoindigo, (2) a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
meisoindigo; (3) a derivative of meisoindigo wherein the derivative has one or more
hydrogen atoms of the benzene rings replaced with a halo or lower alkyl moiety or has the
hydrogen attached to the nitrogen of the five-membered rings replaced with lower alkyl; (4) a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the derivative of meisoindigo; and (5) a prodrug of (1),
(2), (3), or (4) that is incorporated into a dosage form, wherein the therapeutic agent
incorporated into the dosage form possesses increased therapeutic efficacy or reduced side
effects;
                  (c)      a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent selected
from the group consisting of: (1) meisoindigo, (2) a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
meisoindigo; (3) a derivative of meisoindigo wherein the derivative has one or more
hydrogen atoms of the benzene rings replaced with a halo or lower alkyl moiety or has the
hydrogen attached to the nitrogen of the five-membered rings replaced with lower alkyl; (4) a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the derivative of meisoindigo; and (5) a prodrug of (1),
(2), (3), or (4) that is incorporated into a dosage kit and packaging, wherein the therapeutic
agent incorporated into the dosage kit and packaging possesses increased therapeutic
efficacy or reduced side effects; and
                  (d)      a therapeutically effective quantity of a therapeutic agent selected
from the group consisting of: (1) meisoindigo, (2) a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
meisoindigo; (3) a derivative of meisoindigo wherein the derivative has one or more
hydrogen atoms of the benzene rings replaced with a halo or lower alkyl moiety or has the
hydrogen attached to the nitrogen of the five-membered rings replaced with lower alkyl; (4) a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the derivative of meisoindigo; and (5) a prodrug of (1),
(2), (3), or (4) that is subjected to a bulk drug product improvement, wherein the therapeutic
agent subjected to the bulk drug product improvement possesses increased therapeutic
efficacy or reduced side effects.
                  9.       The composition of claim 8 wherein the therapeutic agent is
meisoindigo or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of meisoindigo.
13664687 1

                                                186
               10.     The composition of claim 9 wherein the therapeutic agent is
meisoindigo.
               11.     The composition of claim 8 wherein the composition possesses
increased efficacy or reduced side effects for cancer therapy.
               12.     The composition of claim 10 wherein the composition comprises a
drug combination comprising:
               (a)     meisoindigo; and
               (b)     an additional therapeutic agent selected from the group consisting of:
                       (i)     topoisomerase inhibitors;
                       (ii)    fraudulent nucleosides;
                       (iii)   fraudulent nucleotides;
                       (iv)    thymidylate synthetase inhibitors;
                       (v)     signal transduction inhibitors;
                       (vi)    cisplatin or platinum analogs;
                       (vii)   alkylating agents;
                       (viii)  anti-tubulin agents;
                       (ix)    antimetabolites;
                       (x)     berberine;
                       (xi)    apigenin;
                       (xii)   amonafide;
                       (xiii)  colchicine or an analog thereof;
                       (xiv)   genistein;
                       (xv)    etoposide;
                       (xvi)   cytarabine;
                       (xvii)  a camptothecin;
                       (xviii) a vinca alkaloid;
                       (xix)   5-fluorouracil;
                       (xx)    curcumin;
                       (xxi)   an NF-icB inhibitor;
                       (xxii)  rosmarinic acid;
                       (xxiii) mitoguazone;
                       (xxiv) tetandrine;
                       (xxv) an antineoplastic agent not metabolized by cytochrome P450
CYP 1A2 or CYP 2C19;
                       (xxvi) a biological therapy;
13664687 1

                                               187
                     (xxvii) a tyrosine kinase inhibitor;
                     (xxviii) all-trans-retinoic acid;
                     (xxix) an arsenical;
                     (xxx)     hydroxyurea;
                     (xxxi) thioguanine;
                     (xxxii) mercaptopurine;
                     (xxxiii) homoharringtonine;
                     (xxxiv) oridonin;
                     (xxxv) uracil mustard;
                     (xxxvi) nilotinib;
                     (xxxvii) dasatinib;
                     (xxxviii)         lonidamine;
                     (xxxix) 5-azacytidine;
                     (xl)     thalidomide or an analog thereof;
                     (xli)    an EGFR inhibitor;
                     (xlii)   a gold salt;
                     (xliii)  dibromodulcitol;
                     (xliv)   dianhydrogalactitol;
                     (xlv)    decitabine; and
                     (xlvi)   a proteasome inhibitor.
              13.    The composition of claim 10 wherein the composition comprises a
drug combination comprising:
              (a)    meisoindigo; and
              (b)    a therapeutic agent subject to chemosensitization or
chemopotentiation selected from the group consisting of:
                     (i)      topoisomerase inhibitors;
                     (ii)     fraudulent nucleosides;
                     (iii)    fraudulent nucleotides;
                     (iv)     thymidylate synthetase inhibitors;
                     (v)      signal transduction inhibitors;
                     (vi)     cisplatin or platinum analogs;
                     (vii)    alkylating agents;
                     (viii)   anti-tubulin agents;
                     (ix)     antimetabolites;
                     (x)      berberine;
                     (xi)     apigenin;
13664687 1

                                              188
                      (xii)   amonafide;
                      (xiii)  vinca alkaloids;
                      (xiv)   5-fluorouracil;
                      (xv)    curcumin;
                      (xvi)   NF-KB inhibitors;
                      (xvii)  rosmarinic acid;
                      (xviii) mitoguazone;
                      (xix)   tetrandrine; and
                      (xx)    a proteasome inhibitor;
wherein the meisoindigo acts as a chemosensitizer or chemopotentiator.
               14.    The composition of claim 10 wherein the composition comprises
meisoindigo and the composition:
               (a)    is subjected to a bulk drug product improvement, wherein the bulk
drug product improvement is selected from the group consisting of:
                      (i)     salt formation;
                      (ii)    preparation as a homogeneous crystal structure;
                      (iii)   preparation as a pure isomer;
                      (iv)    increased purity;
                      (v)     preparation with lower residual solvent content; and
                      (vi)    preparation with lower residual heavy metal content;
               (b)    comprises a diluent, wherein the diluent is selected from the group
consisting of:
                      (i)     an emulsion;
                      (ii)    dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO);
                      (iii)   N-methylformamide (NMF)
                      (iv)    DMF;
                      (v)     ethanol;
                      (vi)    benzyl alcohol;
                      (vii)   dextrose-containing water for injection;
                      (viii)  Cremophor;
                      (ix)    cyclodextrin; and
                      (x)     PEG;
               (c)    comprises a solvent system, wherein the solvent system is selected
from the group consisting of:
                      (i)     an emulsion;
                      (ii)    dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO);
13664687 1

                                             189
                     (iii)   N-methylformamide (NMF)
                     (iv)    DMF;
                     (v)     ethanol;
                     (vi)    benzyl alcohol;
                     (vii)   dextrose-containing water for injection;
                     (viii)  Cremophor;
                     (ix)    cyclodextrin; and
                     (x)     PEG;
               (d)   comprises an excipient, wherein the excipient is selected from the
group consisting of:
                     (i)     mannitol;
                     (ii)    albumin;
                     (iii)   EDTA;
                     (iv)    sodium bisulfite;
                     (v)     benzyl alcohol;
                     (vi)    a carbonate buffer;
                     (vii)   a phosphate buffer; and
                     (viii)  methylcellulose;
               (e)   is incorporated into a dosage form selected from the group consisting
of:
                     (i)     tablets;
                     (ii)    capsules;
                     (iii)   topical gels;
                     (iv)    topical creams;
                     (v)     patches;
                     (vi)    suppositories; and
                     (vii)   lyophilized dosage fills;
               (f)   comprises a drug delivery system selected from the group consisting
of:
                     (i)     nanocrystals;
                     (ii)    bioerodible polymers;
                     (iii)   liposomes;
                     (iv)    slow release injectable gels;
                     (v)     microspheres;
                     (vi)    vascular disrupting agents; and
                     (vii)   polymer-coated stents;
13664687 1

                                               190
               (g)     the meisoindigo is present in the composition in a drug conjugate form
selected from the group consisting of:
                       (i)    a polymer system;
                       (ii)   polylactides;
                       (iii)  polyglycolides;
                       (iv)   amino acids;
                       (v)    peptides; and
                       (vi)   multivalent linkers;
               (h)     the meisoindigo is present in the composition in the form of a prodrug
system, wherein the prodrug system is selected from the group consisting of:
                       (i)    the use of enzyme sensitive esters;
                       (ii)   the use of dimers;
                       (iii)  the use of Schiff bases;
                       (iv)   the use of pyridoxal complexes;
                       (v)    the use of caffeine complexes;
                       (vi)   the use of N-substituted carbohydrate derivatives;
                       (vii)  the use of Mannich N-oxides;
                       (viii) the use of products of reaction with an acylating or
carbamylating agent;
                       (ix)   the use of hexanoate conjugates;
                       (x)    the use of polymer-agent conjugates; and
                       (xi)   the use of prodrugs subject to redox activation; or
               (i)     the composition further comprises at least one additional therapeutic
agent to form a multiple drug system, wherein the at least one additional therapeutic agent is
selected from the group consisting of:
                       (i)    an inhibitor of multi-drug resistance;
                       (ii)   a specific drug resistance inhibitor;
                       (iii)  a specific inhibitor of a selective enzyme;
                       (iv)   a signal transduction inhibitor;
                       (v)    an inhibitor of a repair enzyme; and
                       (vi)   a topoisomerase inhibitor with non-overlapping side effects.
                                         Dennis Brown
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON
13664687 1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
