CONSTRUCTION OF A GRIPPING FABRIC
ABSTRACT
A method for constructing a gripping sock, comprising: creating a fabric structure (401) that
defines an inner surface and an outer surface, wherein said inner surface is proximal to a user
contact surface and distal to an external contact surface, and wherein said outer surface is
proximal to said external contact surface and distal to said user contact surface; and applying a
gripping material (402) on said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure (401),
wherein said gripping material (402) on said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric
structure (401) adheres to said user contact surface and said external contact surface respectively;
whereby said adherence of said gripping material (402) on said inner surface and said outer
surface of said fabric structure (401) to said user contact surface and said external contact surface
respectively provides grip between said user contact surface and said fabric structure (401), and
simultaneously provides grip between said fabric structure (401) and said external contact
surface.

                                                   1
CONSTRUCTION OF A GRIPPING FABRIC
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, which is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. 2011296116, which claims the benefit of US Provisional Patent Application No. 61/379,907
filed on 3 September 2010 and US Patent Application No. 13/219,713 filed on 29 August 2011,
the contents of all are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
[0002] This paragraph left intentionally blank.
BACKGROUND
[0003] Conventional fabric materials are generally created by interlacing two distinct sets of
yams to form a fabric. A fabric created through a conventional manufacturing process has a low
coefficient of friction and is not suitable for providing non-slip contact between the fabric and a
user's body that is in contact with the fabric of a garment, for example, a sock, a glove, etc.
[0004] Moreover, conventional fabrics, due to their low coefficients of friction, cause slippage
between the fabric of the garment and the surface of the body in contact with the garment during
use when they come in contact with elements, for example, sweat from the user's body, dust,
moisture, air, etc. For example, in sports that involve running, skating, etc., where the user is
required to quickly or abruptly change directions while engaged in a sports activity, the user's
foot tends to slip inside a sock worn by the user,

                                                2
and also the sock tends to slip inside a shoe worn by the user due to lack of sufficient grip
between the foot and the sock and between the foot and the shoe respectively when the
sock is made of a conventional fabric. This slippage also increases the response time
when the user moves in a new direction. Lack of sufficient grip may also cause the user
playing the sport to slip or roll inside the shoe and suffer injuries. For example, the foot
of the user wearing a sock made of a conventional fabric and a shoe may slip inside the
shoe during a sharp turn leading to an ankle injury. Moreover, the foot of the user
wearing the shoe may slip within the sock made of the conventional fabric, which results
in the foot moving inside the shoe that may cause an injury to the foot or the ankle of the
user. Socks constructed using a conventional fabric do not provide sufficient grip to the
user's foot when the user is engaged in a sports activity that requires sharp or abrupt
turns.
[0005]    Furthermore, different sports activities require gripping contact to be established
at different sections of the user's body. For example, a user playing golf requires a steady
gripping contact between a part of the user's hand that holds a golf club instead of the
entire hand. In another example, a user engaged in running would require a steady
gripping contact between the forefoot section and the hind foot section of the user's foot
and the shoe. Hence, there is a need for constructing a gripping fabric and a gripping
garment that has selective gripping sections, and a gripping fabric that can be selectively
attached to or integrated into different sections of the user's garment.
[0006]    Hence, there is a long felt but unresolved need for constructing a gripping fabric
that provides a selective grip or a complete grip to surfaces that are in contact with the
gripping fabric. Moreover, there is a need for constructing a gripping garment that
provides grip to a user's body part, for example, a foot, a hand, etc., between the user's
body part and the gripping garment and prevents the user's body part from slipping inside
the gripping garment, for example, a sock, a glove, etc. Furthermore, there is a need for
constructing a gripping garment that provides grip to the user's body part, for example, a
foot between the gripping garment and an external contact surface, for example, the
inside surface of a shoe to prevent the gripping garment from slipping against the external

                                                 3
contact surface. Furthermore, there is a need for constructing a gripping garment that provides
simultaneous grip to the user's body part, for example, a foot between the user's body part and
the gripping garment and also between the gripping garment and an external contact surface, for
example, the inside surface of a shoe.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
[0006a] It is an object of the present invention to at least substantially satisfy one or more of the
above needs.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007] This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that
are further described in the detailed description of the invention. This summary is not intended
to identify key or essential inventive concepts of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended
for determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.
[0008] As used herein, the term "gripping fabric" refers to a fabric structure comprising one of
natural threads, synthetic threads, gripping threads, or any combination thereof, to which a
gripping material, for example, a non-slip material, a tacky material, and/or a textured material
is selectively applied. Also, as used herein, the term "fabric structure" refers to a network of one
of natural threads, synthetic threads, gripping threads, or any combination thereof, that can be
configured or knitted, for example, using a knitting machine, to construct a garment, for
example, a sock, a glove, etc.
[0009] A gripping garment, for example, a gripping sock, a gripping glove, etc., may be
constructed by configuring the fabric structure to conform to a user's body part, for example, a
foot, a hand, etc., and then selectively applying the gripping material to the configured fabric
structure. A gripping garment may also be constructed using the gripping fabric disclosed
herein. The gripping garment disclosed herein provides grip to a user's body part, for example, a
foot, a hand, etc., between the user's body part and the gripping garment and prevents the user's
body part from slipping inside the gripping garment. The gripping garment disclosed herein also
provides grip to the user's body part, for example, a foot between the gripping garment and an
external contact surface, for example, the inside surface of footwear, to prevent the gripping
garment from slipping against the external contact surface. In an embodiment, the gripping

                                                  4
garment disclosed herein provides simultaneous grip to the user's body part between the user's
body part and the gripping garment and also between the gripping garment and an external
contact surface. For example, the gripping garment such as a gripping sock worn by the user
provides grip to a user's foot between the user's foot and the gripping sock, and simultaneously
provides grip to the user's foot between the gripping sock and the inside surface of footwear
worn by the user.
[0009a] In a first aspect, there is provided a method for constructing a gripping sock,
comprising:
          creating a fabric structure that defines an inner surface and an outer surface, wherein
said inner surface is proximal to a user contact surface and distal to an external contact surface,
and wherein said outer surface is proximal to said external contact surface and distal to said user
contact surface; and
          applying a gripping material on said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric
structure, wherein said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer surface of said
fabric structure adheres to said user contact surface and said external contact surface
respectively;
          whereby said adherence of said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer
surface of said fabric structure to said user contact surface and said external contact surface
respectively provides grip between said user contact surface and said fabric structure, and
simultaneously provides grip between said fabric structure and said external contact surface.
[0009b] In a second aspect, there is provided a sock comprising:
          a fabric structure that defines an inner surface and an outer surface, wherein said inner
surface is proximal to a user contact surface and distal to an external contact surface, and
wherein said outer surface is proximal to said external contact surface and distal to said user
contact surface; and
          a gripping material applied on said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric
structure, wherein said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer surface of said
fabric structure adheres to said user contact surface and said external contact surface
respectively;
          whereby said adherence of said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer
surface of said fabric structure to said user contact surface and said external contact surface
respectively provides grip between said user contact surface and said fabric structure, and
provides grip between said fabric structure and said external contact surface.

                                                  4a
[0009c] In a third aspect, there is provided a method for constructing a gripping sock that
provides grip to a body part of a user between said body part and said gripping sock, and that
simultaneously provides grip to said body part of said user between said gripping garment and
an external contact surface, comprising:
          creating a fabric structure configured to conform to said body part of said user, said
fabric structure defining an inner surface and an outer surface, wherein said inner surface is
proximal to said body part of said user and distal to said external contact surface, when said user
is wearing said configured fabric structure, and wherein said outer surface is distal to said body
part of said user and proximal to said external contact surface, when said user is wearing said
configured fabric structure; and
          applying a gripping material on said inner surface and said outer surface of said
configured fabric structure to construct said gripping sock, wherein said gripping material on
said inner surface and said outer surface of said configured fabric structure adheres to said body
part of said user and said external contact surface respectively, when said user is wearing said
gripping garment comprising said configured fabric structure with said selectively applied
gripping material;
          whereby said adherence of said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer
surface of said configured fabric structure to said body part of said user and said external contact
surface respectively provides grip to said body part of said user between said body part and said
gripping garment, and simultaneously provides grip to said body part of said user between said
gripping garment and said external contact surface.
[0009d] In a fourth aspect, there is provided a gripping sock that provides grip to a body part of
a user between said body part and said gripping sock, and that simultaneously provides grip to
said body part of said user between said gripping sock and an external contact surface,
comprising:
          a fabric structure configured to conform to said body part of said user, said fabric
structure defining an inner surface and an outer surface, wherein said inner surface is proximal
to said body part of said user and distal to said external contact surface, when said user is
wearing said configured fabric structure, and wherein said outer surface is distal to said body
part of said user and proximal to said external contact surface, when said user is wearing said
configured fabric structure; and
          a gripping material applied on said inner surface and said outer surface of said
configured fabric structure, wherein said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer

                                                  4b
surface of said configured fabric structure adheres to said body part of said user and said
external contact surface respectively, when said user is wearing said gripping garment
comprising said configured fabric structure with said selectively applied gripping material;
          whereby said adherence of said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer
surface of said configured fabric structure to said body part of said user and said external contact
surface respectively provides grip to said body part of said user between said body part and said
gripping sock, and simultaneously provides grip to said body part of said user between said
gripping sock and said external contact surface.
[0010] A method for constructing a gripping fabric disclosed herein comprises creating a fabric
structure that defines an inner surface and an outer surface, and selectively applying a gripping
material, for example, a non-slip material, a tacky material, and/or a textured material, on the
inner surface and/or the outer surface of the fabric structure. As used herein, the "gripping
material" refers to a non-slip, sticky, and/or textured material that exhibits generally high
surface adhesion and provides grip between a user contact surface and the fabric structure to
which the gripping material is selectively applied, and simultaneously provides grip between the
fabric structure to which the gripping material is selectively applied and an external contact
surface. Also, as used herein, the term "user contact surface" refers to a surface, for example, the
skin of a user's body part, for example, a foot, a hand, etc., that contacts the inner surface of the
fabric structure. Also, as used herein, the term "external contact surface" refers to a surface in
external contact with the outer surface of the fabric structure. For example, the external contact
surface is the inside surface of footwear worn by the user, which externally contacts the outer
surface of a sock configured from the fabric structure and worn by the user on the user's foot.
[0011] The fabric structure comprises, for example, a network of natural threads and/or
synthetic threads, or a network of gripping threads, or a network of natural threads, synthetic
threads, and gripping threads. As used herein, the term "gripping threads" refer to non-slip,
sticky, tacky, and/or textured threads that exhibit generally high surface

                                                5
adhesion and provide grip between the user contact surface and a fabric structure made
from the gripping threads, and simultaneously provide grip between the fabric structure
and the external contact surface. In an embodiment, the gripping threads are made by
selectively applying a gripping material to natural threads and/or synthetic threads. In an
embodiment, the fabric structure is configured to conform to a user's body part, for
example, a foot, a hand, etc., for constructing a garment, for example, a sock, a glove,
etc., prior to selective application of the gripping material on the inner surface and/or the
outer surface of the fabric structure. For example, the natural threads, the synthetic
threads, and/or the gripping threads of the fabric structure are knitted using a knitting
machine, to construct a garment, for example, a sock, prior to selective application of the
gripping material on the inner surface and/or the outer surface of the sock. The inner
surface of the created fabric structure is proximal to the user contact surface and distal to
the external contact surface. The outer surface of the created fabric structure is proximal
to the external contact surface and distal to the user contact surface.
[0012]    In an embodiment, the gripping material is configured into one or more of
multiple shapes for the selective application of the gripping material on the inner surface
and/or the outer surface of the fabric structure. The gripping material selectively applied
on one or more of the inner surface and the outer surface of the fabric structure adheres to
the user contact surface and the external contact surface respectively. The adherence of
the gripping material on the inner surface and the outer surface of the fabric structure to
the user contact surface and the external contact surface respectively provides grip
between the user contact surface and the fabric structure, and provides grip between the
fabric structure and the external contact surface.
[0013]    In an embodiment, the fabric structure is created by providing multiple gripping
threads and supplementary threads; separating the gripping threads into a first gripping
thread and a second gripping thread; winding the first gripping thread, the second
gripping thread, a first supplementary thread, and a second supplementary thread onto a
first spool, a second spool, a third spool, and a fourth spool respectively; grouping the
first gripping thread and the first supplementary thread into a first pair; grouping the

                                                6
second gripping thread and the second supplementary thread into a second pair; and
knitting the first pair with the second pair to form the fabric structure. As used herein, the
term "supplementary thread" refers to an additional thread made from a conventional
material, for example, cotton, nylon, polyester, wool, etc., which is knitted along with a
gripping thread to create the first pair and the second pair. The first pair defines the inner
surface of the fabric structure. The second pair defines the outer surface of the fabric
structure. The first gripping thread of the first pair is exposed on the inner surface of the
fabric structure, but not exposed on the outer surface of the fabric structure. The second
gripping thread of the second pair is exposed on the outer surface of the fabric structure,
but not exposed on the inner surface of the fabric structure. The inner surface defined by
the first pair provides grip between the user contact surface and the fabric structure. The
outer surface defined by the second pair simultaneously provides grip between the fabric
structure and the external contact surface.
[0014]     The gripping threads used for creating the fabric structure are made from non
slip materials, tacky materials, and/or textured materials comprising, for example, one or
more of synthetic rubber, natural latex, polyvinyl chloride, plastisol, thermoplastic
rubber, thermoplastic elastomers, polyurethane, thermoplastic coatings on conventional
threads, etc. The gripping threads are coated, for example, with silicon, talcum powder,
etc., to prevent gathering and tangling during creation of the fabric structure. The
supplementary threads are selected from materials comprising, for example, cotton,
nylon, a polyester or spandex such as Lycra*, wool, etc.
[0015]     In an embodiment, the first gripping thread and the first supplementary thread
are fed from the first spool and the third spool respectively into a first finger tube. The
second gripping thread and the second supplementary thread are fed from the second
spool and the fourth spool respectively into a second finger tube. In another embodiment,
the inner surface and the outer surface of the fabric structure are created by feeding the
first gripping thread, the second gripping thread, the first supplementary thread, and the
second supplementary thread into a first finger tube, a second finger tube, a third finger
tube, and a fourth finger tube respectively. A plating technique is used, for example, to

                                                7
knit the first supplementary thread retrieved from the third finger tube and the second
supplementary thread retrieved from the fourth finger tube. The first supplementary
thread is exposed on the inner surface of the fabric structure. The second supplementary
thread is exposed on the outer surface of the fabric structure. The plating technique is also
used to knit the first gripping thread retrieved from the first finger tube and the second
gripping thread retrieved from the second finger tube. The first gripping thread is exposed
on the inner surface of the fabric structure. The second gripping thread is exposed on the
outer surface of the fabric structure. A first pair of the first gripping thread and the first
supplementary thread defines the inner surface of the fabric structure. A second pair of
the second gripping thread and the second supplementary thread defines the outer surface
of the fabric structure.
[0016]    In an embodiment, the fabric structure is created without the use of a
conventional supplementary thread, for example, by knitting only gripping threads to
define the inner surface and the outer surface of the fabric structure. In this embodiment,
the gripping threads are used exclusively to create the inner surface and the outer surface
of the fabric structure. In another embodiment, the fabric structure configured to conform
to the user's body part, for example, the user's foot, comprises one or more gripping
threads in selective areas, for example, a heel section that accommodates the user's heel,
a ball section that accommodates the ball of the user's foot, etc., on the inner surface and
the outer surface of the configured fabric structure.
[0017]    In an embodiment, the gripping material is selectively applied on the first
gripping thread and/or the first supplementary thread in the first pair that defines the inner
surface of the fabric structure, and on the second gripping thread and/or the second
supplementary thread in the second pair that defines the outer surface of the fabric
structure. For example, the gripping material can be added to or coated on the first
gripping thread and/or the first supplementary thread in the first pair, or on the second
gripping thread and/or the second supplementary thread in the second pair at 1/16th of an
inch intervals instead of coating the entire length of the threads on the spools. In an
embodiment, the gripping material can be added to or coated on the entire length of the

                                               8
first gripping thread and/or the first supplementary thread in the first pair, or on the
second gripping thread and/or the second supplementary thread in the second pair. The
gripping material adheres to the first gripping thread and/or the first supplementary thread
in the first pair and to the second gripping thread and/or the second supplementary thread
in the second pair. The gripping material on the inner surface defined by the first pair and
the outer surface defined by the second pair adheres to the user contact surface and the
external contact surface respectively for providing enhanced grip between the user
contact surface and the fabric structure, and between the fabric structure and the external
contact surface respectively.
[0018]    In another embodiment, the selective application of the gripping material on the
inner surface and/or the outer surface of the fabric structure comprises creating a design
frame comprising one or more patterned holes, positioning the created design frame on
each of the inner surface and/or the outer surface of the fabric structure, and selectively
applying the gripping material on the positioned design frame on the inner surface and/or
the outer surface of the fabric structure. The gripping material is selectively applied on
the positioned design frame on the inner surface and/or the outer surface of the fabric
structure, for example, by one or more of painting, pouring, screen printing, and spraying
the gripping material on the positioned design frame to allow the gripping material to
pass through the patterned holes of the positioned design frame and adhere to the inner
surface and/or the outer surface of the fabric structure in a pattern defined by the
patterned holes of the positioned design frame.
[0019]    In another embodiment, the method for selectively applying the gripping
material on the inner surface and/or the outer surface of the fabric structure comprises
configuring the gripping material into one or more of multiple shapes, coating one
surface of the gripping material with a sealing element, and selectively applying the
configured gripping material on the inner surface and/or the outer surface of the fabric
structure. The sealing element attaches the configured gripping material to the inner
surface and/or the outer surface of the fabric structure. The attached gripping material on

                                               9
the inner surface and the outer surface of the fabric structure adheres to the user contact
surface and the external contact surface respectively.
[0020]    In another embodiment, the selective application of the gripping material on the
inner surface and/or the outer surface of the fabric structure is performed, for example, by
painting, pouring, screen printing, or spraying the gripping material on the inner surface
and/or the outer surface of the fabric structure in one or more of multiple patterns. In
another embodiment, the selective application of the gripping material on the inner
surface and/or the outer surface of the fabric structure is performed, for example, by
using a heat press for transferring the gripping material to the inner surface and/or the
outer surface of the fabric structure in one or more of multiple patterns.
[0021]    In another embodiment, the gripping fabric constructed from the fabric structure
with the selectively applied gripping material is configured as patches and selectively
attached, for example, by sewing or bonding to one or more sections of a garment
wearable by the user for providing grip between the user contact surface and the
constructed gripping fabric, and for providing grip between the constructed gripping
fabric and the external contact surface. In an embodiment, patches are made of the
gripping material, for example, a thermoplastic elastomer, a polyvinyl chloride, natural
latex, synthetic latex, synthetic suede, suede leather, synthetic leather, other leathers, etc.,
instead of being made of the fabric structure to which the gripping material is selectively
applied, for example, by painting, pouring, screen printing, spraying, etc., the gripping
material on the fabric structure. These patches are selectively attached, for example, by
sewing or bonding to one or more sections of a garment wearable by the user. The
selectively attached patches contact both the user contact surface and the external contact
surface simultaneously.
[0022]    In another embodiment, the gripping material itself is selectively attached in one
or more of multiple patterns to one or more sections of a garment for providing grip
between the user contact surface and the garment, and for providing grip between the
garment and the external contact surface.

                                              10
[0023]    In an embodiment, the constructed gripping fabric comprising the fabric
structure with the selectively applied gripping material is configured to conform to a
user's body part, for example, a foot, a hand, etc., for constructing a gripping garment, for
example, a gripping sock, a gripping glove, etc.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0024]    The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of the
invention, is better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For
the purpose of illustrating the invention, exemplary constructions of the invention are
shown in the drawings. However, the invention is not limited to the specific components
and methods disclosed herein.
[0025]    FIG. 1 exemplarily illustrates a method for constructing a gripping fabric.
[0026]    FIG. 2 exemplarily illustrates a method for selectively applying a gripping
material on an inner surface and/or an outer surface of a fabric structure.
[0027]     FIG. 3 exemplarily illustrates a method for selectively applying a gripping
material on an inner surface and/or an outer surface of a fabric structure.
[0028]    FIG. 4A exemplarily illustrates a fabric structure configured in the form of a
sock stretched over a framework, showing a gripping material attached to a transfer
material positioned on the sock for selectively applying the gripping material on the sock.
[0029]    FIGS. 4B-4C exemplarily illustrate selective application of a gripping material
on the sock using a heat press.

                                              11
[0030]    FIGS. 5A-5B exemplarily illustrate selective application of a gripping material
on a fabric structure configured to conform to a user's body part, by pouring the gripping
material on the configured fabric structure to construct a gripping garment.
[0031]    FIGS. 6A-6B exemplarily illustrate selective application of a gripping material
on a fabric structure configured to conform to a user's body part, by spraying the gripping
material on the configured fabric structure to construct a gripping garment.
[0032]    FIGS. 7A-7F exemplarily illustrate selectively attaching a gripping fabric
configured as a patch to a section of a garment to construct a gripping garment.
[0033]    FIGS. 7G-71 exemplarily illustrate selectively attaching a gripping material to a
section of a fabric structure configured to conform to a user's body part to construct a
gripping garment.
[0034]    FIGS. 8A-8D exemplarily illustrate selectively attaching a gripping material to a
fabric structure configured to conform to a user's body part to construct a gripping
garment.
[0035]    FIG. 9 exemplarily illustrates an embodiment for creating a fabric structure as
shown in FIGS. 13A-13B.
[0036]    FIG. 10 exemplarily illustrates an embodiment for creating an inner surface and
an outer surface of the fabric structure shown in FIGS. 13A-13B.
[0037]    FIGS. 11A-11B exemplarily illustrate knitting of a first pair comprising a first
gripping thread and a first supplementary thread with a second pair comprising a second
gripping thread and a second supplementary thread for creating the fabric structure shown
in FIG. 13B.

                                               12
[0038]    FIG. 11C exemplarily illustrates knitting the first pair and the second pair using
a latch needle for creating the fabric structure shown in FIGS. 13A-13B.
[0039]    FIG. 12 exemplarily illustrates an embodiment for creating an inner surface and
an outer surface of the fabric structure shown in FIGS. 13A-13B.
[0040]    FIG. 13A exemplarily illustrates a fabric structure configured to conform to a
user's body part.
[0041]    FIG. 13B exemplarily illustrates an enlarged sectional view of the fabric
structure.
[0042]    FIGS. 14A-14D exemplarily illustrate multiple views of the fabric structure of
FIGS. 13A-13B, showing a first pair comprising a first gripping thread and a first
supplementary thread knitted with a second pair comprising a second gripping thread and
a second supplementary thread for creating the fabric structure.
[0043]    FIGS. 15A-15B exemplarily illustrate selective application of a gripping
material on a fabric structure configured to conform to a user's body part as shown in
FIGS. 13A-13B, by spraying the gripping material on the configured fabric structure to
construct a gripping garment.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0044]    FIG. 1 exemplarily illustrates a method for constructing a gripping fabric. As
used herein, the term "gripping fabric" refers to a fabric structure comprising one of
natural threads, synthetic threads, gripping threads, or any combination thereof, to which
a gripping material is selectively applied. Also, as used herein, the term "fabric structure"
refers to a network of one of natural threads, synthetic threads, gripping threads, or any
combination thereof, that can be configured or knitted, for example, using a knitting
machine, to construct a garment, for example, a sock, a glove, etc. The gripping fabric is

                                               13
therefore constructed by selectively applying the gripping material to a fabric structure
comprising a network of natural threads and/or synthetic threads, or to a fabric structure
comprising a network of gripping threads and supplementary threads as disclosed in the
detailed description of FIGS. 9-15B, or to a fabric structure comprising only gripping
threads. Also, as used herein, the term "gripping material" refers to a non-slip, sticky,
and/or textured material that exhibits generally high surface adhesion and provides grip
between a user contact surface and a fabric structure to which the gripping material is
selectively applied, and simultaneously provides grip between the fabric structure to
which the gripping material is selectively applied and an external contact surface. Also,
as used herein, the term "user contact surface" refers to a surface, for example, the skin of
a user's body part, for example, a foot, a hand, etc., that contacts an inner surface of the
fabric structure. Also, as used herein, the term "external contact surface" refers to a
surface in external contact with an outer surface of the fabric structure. For example, if
the fabric structure is configured to conform to a user's body part, for example, a foot, for
constructing a garment, for example, a sock, when the user wears the sock and footwear,
the user contact surface is the skin of the user's foot and the external contact surface is
the inside surface of the user's footwear.
[0045]    In the method disclosed herein, a fabric structure that defines an inner surface
and an outer surface is created 101. The fabric structure comprises, for example, a
network of natural threads and/or synthetic threads, or a network of gripping threads, or a
network of one or more of natural threads, synthetic threads, and gripping threads. As
used herein, the term "gripping threads" refer to non-slip, sticky, tacky, and/or textured
threads that exhibit generally high surface adhesion and provide grip between the user
contact surface and a fabric structure made from the gripping threads, and simultaneously
provide grip between the fabric structure and the external contact surface. In an
embodiment, the gripping threads are made by selectively applying a gripping material to
natural threads and/or synthetic threads, for example, by spraying, painting, pouring, etc.,
the gripping material on the natural threads and/or synthetic threads. In an embodiment,
the fabric structure is configured to conform to a user's body part, for example, a foot, a
hand, etc., for constructing a garment, for example, a sock, a glove, etc., prior to selective

                                                14
application of the gripping material on the inner surface and the outer surface of the
fabric structure. The inner surface of the fabric structure is proximal to the user contact
surface and distal to the external contact surface. The outer surface of the fabric structure
is proximal to the external contact surface and distal to the user contact surface.
[0046]    Moreover, in the method disclosed herein, a gripping material is selectively
applied 102 on one or more of the inner surface and the outer surface of the configured
fabric structure. For example, the gripping material is added to the configured fabric
structure, that is, a sock, after the sock is made. The gripping material is a non-slip
material, a tacky material, a textured material, or any combination thereof. In an
embodiment, the gripping material is made in the form of a sheet having a thickness of,
for example, 0.35 millimeters (mm). In an embodiment, the gripping material has a suede
type finish and is classified as a non-woven fabric. As used herein, a "textured material"
is any coarse or non-uniform finish material, for example, a surface produced when
Styrofoam® from the Dow Chemical Company is sprayed onto the surface. The gripping
material is made, for example, from natural rubber, synthetic rubber, natural latex,
thermoplastic rubber (TPR), thermoplastic elastomers (TPE), polyurethane, polyvinyl
chloride, synthetic and/or natural suede-like non-slip finishes, etc. In another example,
the gripping material is a synthetic leather-like material, for example, Clarino
manufactured by Kuraray Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan.
[0047]    The gripping material on the inner surface and the outer surface of the fabric
structure adheres to the user contact surface and the external contact surface respectively.
The adherence of the gripping material on the inner surface and the outer surface of the
fabric structure to the user contact surface and the external contact surface respectively
provides grip between the user contact surface and the fabric structure, and provides grip
between the fabric structure and the external contact surface.
[0048]    In an embodiment, the gripping material is selectively applied on each of the
inner surface and the outer surface of a piece of a conventional fabric to construct a
gripping fabric that provides grip between the user contact surface and the gripping

                                               15
fabric, and for providing grip between the gripping fabric and the external contact
surface. The piece of conventional fabric is made, for example, from cotton, nylon, wool,
acrylic, polyester, polypropylene, spandex, etc., or any combination thereof. Consider an
example where a fabric structure comprising a network of natural threads and/or synthetic
threads is knitted, for example, using a knitting machine, to construct a garment, for
example, a sock, a glove, etc. The gripping material is then selectively applied on each of
the inner surface and the outer surface of the garment to construct a gripping garment, for
example, a gripping sock. In another embodiment, the gripping material is selectively
applied on the inner surface and/or the outer surface of an embodiment of the fabric
structure configured into a garment, for example, a sock as disclosed in the detailed
description of FIGS. 9-15B, for providing grip between the user contact surface and the
configured fabric structure, and for providing grip between the configured fabric structure
and the external contact surface. The selective application of the gripping material on this
embodiment of the fabric structure is exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 15A-15B.
[0049]    In an embodiment, a gripping garment, for example, a gripping sock, a gripping
glove, etc., is constructed using the created fabric structure with the selectively applied
gripping material on the inner surface and the outer surface of the created fabric structure.
This exemplifies the embodiment where a gripping sock, a gripping glove, or other
gripping garment is constructed using the gripping fabric disclosed herein. That is, the
gripping fabric constructed from the fabric structure with the selectively applied gripping
material is configured to conform to a user's body part, for example, a hand, a foot, etc.,
for creating the gripping garment, for example, a gripping glove, a gripping sock, etc. For
example, the gripping fabric is configured to conform to the user's hand to construct a
gripping glove. The gripping glove provides grip to the user's hand between the user's
hand and the gripping glove. In another example, the gripping fabric comprising the
fabric structure with the selectively applied gripping material is configured to conform to
the user's foot to construct a gripping sock. The gripping sock provides grip to the user's
foot between the user's foot and the gripping sock, and simultaneously provides grip to
the user's foot between the gripping sock and the inside surface of footwear worn by the
user.

                                              16
[0050]    The gripping garment can therefore be constructed by selectively applying the
gripping material to a fabric structure that has already been knitted into a garment, for
example, a sock, or by configuring the gripping fabric made of the fabric structure with
the selectively applied gripping material into a gripping garment, for example, a gripping
sock.
[0051]    In an embodiment, the constructed gripping fabric is configured as a patch and is
selectively attached or bonded to one or more sections of a garment wearable by the user
for providing grip between the user contact surface and the constructed gripping fabric,
and for providing grip between the constructed gripping fabric and the external contact
surface. The gripping fabric is attached to an inside surface and/or an outside surface of a
garment wearable by the user, for example, by heat-gluing, pressure gluing, sewing, heat
sealing, etc. For example, the constructed gripping fabric is selectively attached to an
inside surface and/or an outside surface of a sock, a glove, etc., for providing grip to the
user's foot, hand, etc. In an embodiment, the patch of the gripping fabric is sewn into an
opening created in the garment wearable by the user. The resulting gripping garment
disclosed herein therefore prevents the user's body part from slipping inside the
constructed gripping garment, for example, a gripping sock, a gripping glove, etc., and
also prevents the constructed gripping garment from slipping against an external contact
surface.
[0052]    In another embodiment, the fabric structure created by knitting gripping threads
with supplementary threads as disclosed in the detailed description of FIGS. 9-14D, is
configured as a patch and is selectively attached or bonded to one or more sections of a
garment wearable by the user as exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 7A-7F, for providing
grip between the user contact surface and the fabric structure, and for providing grip
between the fabric structure and the external contact surface. In another embodiment, the
fabric structure created as disclosed in the detailed description of FIGS. 9-14D and
selectively applied with the gripping material as disclosed in the detailed description of
FIGS. 15A-15B, is configured as a patch and is selectively attached or bonded to one or

                                               17
more sections of a garment wearable by the user as exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 7A
7F. In another embodiment, the patch is, for example, made of a gripping material, for
example, a thermoplastic elastomer, a polyvinyl chloride, natural latex, synthetic latex,
synthetic suede, suede leather, synthetic leather, other leathers, etc., instead of being
made of the fabric structure to which the gripping material is selectively applied, for
example, by painting, pouring, screen printing, spraying, etc., the gripping material on the
fabric structure. The patch made of the gripping material is selectively attached, for
example, by sewing or bonding to one or more sections of a garment wearable by the user
as exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 7G-71.
[0053]    FIG. 2 exemplarily illustrates a method for selectively applying a gripping
material on an inner surface and/or an outer surface of a fabric structure. A design frame
501 is created 201 comprising one or more patterned holes 502 as exemplarily illustrated
in FIG. 5A. The created design frame 501 is positioned 202 on the inner surface 401a
and/or the outer surface 401b of the fabric structure 401. The gripping material 402 is
selectively applied 203 on the positioned design frame 501 on the inner surface 401a
and/or the outer surface 401b of the fabric structure 401. The gripping material 402
passes through the patterned holes 502 of the positioned design frame 501 and adheres to
the inner surface 401a and/or the outer surface 401b of the fabric structure 401 in a
pattern defined by the patterned holes 502 of the positioned design frame 501.
[0054]    The selective application of the gripping material 402 on the positioned design
frame 501 is performed, for example, by one or more of painting, pouring, screen
printing, and spraying the gripping material 402 on the positioned design frame 501 to
allow the gripping material 402 to pass through the patterned holes 502 of the positioned
design frame 501 and adhere to each of the inner surface 401a and the outer surface 401b
of the fabric structure 401 in the pattern defined by the patterned holes 502 of the
positioned design frame 501. In an embodiment, the gripping material 402 is selectively
applied 203 on the inner surface 401a and/or the outer surface 401b of the fabric
structure 401 directly without the design frame 501, for example, by one or more of
painting, pouring, screen printing, heat pressing, spraying, heat-gluing, pressure gluing,

                                                18
heat-sealing, and selectively attaching, for example, by sewing, the gripping material 402
on selected areas on the inner surface 401a and/or the outer surface 401b of the fabric
structure 401 in one or more of multiple patterns.
[0055]    FIG. 3 exemplarily illustrates a method for selectively applying a gripping
material 402 on an inner surface 401a and/or an outer surface 401b of a fabric structure
401 as shown in FIGS. 4A-4C. A gripping material 402, for example, a non-slip material,
a tacky material, a textured material, etc., is provided 301. The gripping material 402 is
configured 302 into one or more of multiple shapes. A surface of the gripping material
402 is coated 303 with a sealing element, for example, a heat seal adhesive 406 such as
Bemis 3218 manufactured by Bemis Associates Inc., Massachusetts, USA, a fabric glue,
a polyurethane heat seal, etc. The configured gripping material 402 is selectively applied
304 on the inner surface 401a and/or the outer surface 401b of the fabric structure 401,
for example, by heat pressing as disclosed in the detailed description of FIGS. 4A-4C.
The sealing element attaches the gripping material 402 to the inner surface 401a and/or
the outer surface 401b of the fabric structure 401. The attached gripping material 402 on
the inner surface 401a and/or the outer surface 401b of the fabric structure 401 adheres to
the user contact surface and the external contact surface respectively, where the inner
surface 401a of the fabric structure 401 is proximal to the user contact surface and distal
to the external contact surface, and the outer surface 401b is proximal to the external
contact surface and distal to the user contact surface. The adherence of the gripping
material 402 on the inner surface 401a and the outer surface 401b of the fabric structure
401 to the user contact surface and the external contact surface respectively provides grip
between the user contact surface and the fabric structure 401, and provides grip between
the fabric structure 401 and the external contact surface.
[0056]    FIG. 4A exemplarily illustrates a fabric structure 401 configured in the form of a
sock stretched over a framework, showing a gripping material 402 attached to a transfer
material 404 positioned on the sock for selectively applying the gripping material 402 on
the sock. The fabric structure 401 comprising, for example, natural threads and/or
synthetic threads is configured to conform to a user's body part, for example, a user's

                                                19
foot to construct a sock. The configured fabric structure 401 herein referred to as a "sock"
and herein referenced by the numeral 401 is positioned over a framework, for example, a
sock form 403. The sock form 403 is made, for example, of aluminum. The sock form
403 is a two-dimensional or three-dimensional framework that is configured in the shape
of a sock 401. In an embodiment, the sock 401 is not positioned on the sock form 403
prior to selective application of the gripping material 402. The gripping material 402, for
example, Clarino® blocks are attached to a transfer material 404, for example, made of
paper, using a temporary adhesive 405 provided on the transfer material 404 as
exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 4B. The temporary adhesive 405 holds the gripping
material 402 in place until the gripping material 402 is heat pressed onto the sock 401 by
using a heat press 407 as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 4C. After the gripping material
402 is transferred to the inner surface 401a and the outer surface 401b of the sock 401,
the transfer material 404 is peeled off from the sock 401, while retaining the gripping
material 402 on the sock 401.
[0057]    FIGS. 4B-4C exemplarily illustrate selective application of a gripping material
402 on the sock 401 using a heat press 407. A fabric structure 401 comprising, for natural
threads and/or synthetic threads, that defines an inner surface 401a and an outer surface
401b is created. In this embodiment, the selective application of the gripping material
402 on the inner surface 401a and the outer surface 401b of the fabric structure 401 is
performed, for example, by heat pressing for transferring the gripping material 402 to the
inner surface 401a and the outer surface 401b of the fabric structure 401 in one or more
of multiple patterns. Heat pressing is a method of applying heat and pressure on the fabric
structure 401 for a predetermined period of time for transferring the gripping material
402 to the inner surface 401a and the outer surface 401b of the fabric structure 401. Heat
pressing is performed using the heat press 407 as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 4C.
[0058]    The gripping material 402 is cut, for example, by laser cutting, die cutting,
rotary cutting, etc., to a required specification and aligned on a transfer material 404. As
exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 4A-4B, the gripping material 402, for example, Clarino®
blocks are attached to the transfer material 404 using a temporary adhesive 405. An

                                               20
opposing surface 402a of the gripping material 402 that faces the fabric structure 401 is
coated, for example, with a polyurethane heat seal adhesive 406, for example, Bemis
3218 manufactured by Bemis Associates Inc. Bemis 3218 is a fully reacted elastomeric
film that remains flexible over a wide temperature range. Bemis 3218 is a general
purpose adhesive that combines a low activation temperature with a very high viscosity at
its softening point.
[0059]    The transfer material 404 that carries the gripping material 402 is positioned
above and below the fabric structure 401 as exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 4B-4C, with
the gripping material 402 facing the outer surface 401b and the inner surface 401a of the
fabric structure 401 respectively. The transfer material 404 with the gripping material 402
positioned below the fabric structure 401 rests on the sock form 403. Heat at a
predetermined temperature, for example, about 375 degrees Fahrenheit (F) and pressure
is applied on the transfer material 404 that carries the gripping material 402 above the
fabric structure 401 for about 20 seconds using the heat press 407. The heat press 407
compresses the gripping material 402 towards the outer surface 401b and the inner
surface 401a of fabric structure 401, resulting in the transfer of the gripping material 402
to the outer surface 401b and the inner surface 401a of the fabric structure 401. Due to
the application of heat, the gripping material 402 peels off from the transfer material 404
and permanently bonds to the fabric structure 401. The transfer material 404 is thereafter
removed from the fabric structure 401.
[0060]    FIGS. 5A-5B exemplarily illustrate selective application of a gripping material
402 on a fabric structure 401 configured to conform to a user's body part, by pouring the
gripping material 402 on the configured fabric structure 401 to construct a gripping
garment 400. The fabric structure 401 is configured to conform to a user's body part, for
example, the user's foot to construct a garment, for example, a sock. The configured
fabric structure 401 is herein referred to as a "sock" and is herein referenced by the
numeral 401. The threads of the fabric structure 401 are knitted, for example, using a
circular knitting machine 1109 exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B, to construct the sock
401. The sock 401 is positioned over a framework, for example, a sock form 403 as

                                               21
disclosed in the detailed description of FIG. 4A. In this example, the selective application
of the gripping material 402 on the outer surface 401b of the sock 401 is performed by
pouring the gripping material 402 on the outer surface 401b of the sock 401 in one or
more of multiple patterns as exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 5A-5B. The gripping
material 402 may also be selectively applied on the inner surface 401a of the sock 401
exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 4B-4C by pouring the gripping material 402 on the inner
surface 401a of the sock 401 in one or more of multiple patterns.
[0061]    The design frame 501 comprising patterned holes 502 is created and positioned
above the sock 401. The design frame 501 is, for example, a template, a stencil, a mask,
etc. As exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 5A, the gripping material 402, for example, in a
semi-liquid form is poured through the patterned holes 502 on the design frame 501 using
a nozzle 503. The gripping material 402 passes through the patterned holes 502 of the
design frame 501 and adheres to the outer surface 401b of the sock 401 in a pattern
defined by the patterned holes 502 of the design frame 501 as exemplarily illustrated in
FIG. 5A. The gripping material 402 then solidifies on the sock 401 as exemplarily
illustrated in FIG. 5B. The sock 401 is then flipped inside out and repositioned over the
sock form 403 prior to pouring the gripping material 402 through the patterned holes 502
on the design frame 501 positioned above the inner surface 401a of the sock 401. The
gripping material 402 passes through the patterned holes 502 of the design frame 501 and
adheres to the inner surface 401a of the sock 401 in a pattern defined by the patterned
holes 502 of the design frame 501.
[0062]    FIGS. 6A-6B exemplarily illustrate selective application of a gripping material
402 on a fabric structure 401 configured to conform to a user's body part, by spraying the
gripping material 402 on the configured fabric structure 401 to construct a gripping
garment 400. The fabric structure 401 is configured to conform to a user's body part, for
example, the user's foot to construct a garment, for example, a sock. The configured
fabric structure 401 is herein referred to as a "sock" and is herein referenced by the
numeral 401. The threads of the fabric structure 401 are knitted, for example, using a
circular knitting machine 1109 exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B, to construct the sock

                                             22
401. The sock 401 is positioned over a framework, for example, a sock form 403 as
disclosed in the detailed description of FIG. 4A. In this example, the selective application
of the gripping material 402 on the outer surface 401b of the sock 401 is performed by
spraying the gripping material 402 on the outer surface 401b of the sock 401 in one or
more of multiple patterns as exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 6A-6B. The gripping
material 402 may also be selectively applied on the inner surface 401a of the sock 401
exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 4B-4C, by spraying the gripping material 402 on the
inner surface 401a of the sock 401 in one or more of multiple patterns.
[0063]    The design frame 501 comprising patterned holes 502 is created and positioned
above the sock 401. The design frame 501 is, for example, a template, a stencil, a mask,
etc. As exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 6A, the gripping material 402, for example, in a
liquid form is sprayed through the patterned holes 502 on the design frame 501 through a
nozzle 601. The gripping material 402 passes through the patterned holes 502 of the
positioned design frame 501 and adheres to the outer surface 401b of the sock 401 in a
pattern defined by the patterned holes 502 of the design frame 501 as exemplarily
illustrated in FIG. 6A. The gripping material 402 then solidifies on the sock 401 as
exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 6B. The sock 401 is then flipped inside out and
repositioned over the sock form 403 prior to spraying the gripping material 402 through
the patterned holes 502 on the design frame 501 positioned above the inner surface 401a
of the sock 401. The gripping material 402 passes through the patterned holes 502 of the
design frame 501 and adheres to the inner surface 401a of the sock 401 in a pattern
defined by the patterned holes 502 of the design frame 501. In an embodiment, the
gripping material 402 is selectively applied on the inner surface 401a and/or the outer
surface 401b of the sock 401 directly without the design frame 501, for example, by one
or more of painting, pouring, screen printing, heat pressing, spraying, and selectively
attaching, for example, by sewing the gripping material 402 on selected areas of the sock
401.
[0064]    FIGS. 7A-7F exemplarily illustrate selectively attaching a gripping fabric
configured as a patch 701 to a section of a garment to construct a gripping garment 400.

                                              23
In an embodiment, the gripping fabric constructed as disclosed in the detailed description
of FIG. 1 is configured as a patch 701 and selectively attached, for example, by sewing to
one or more sections of a garment, for example, a sock 401 as exemplarily illustrated in
FIGS. 7A-7F. In an embodiment, the patch 701 is, for example, made of a gripping
material 402, for example, a thermoplastic elastomer, a polyvinyl chloride, natural latex,
synthetic latex, synthetic suede, suede leather, synthetic leather, other leathers, etc.,
instead of being made of a fabric structure 401 to which the gripping material 402 is
coated. The patch 701 having an inner gripping surface 701a and an outer gripping
surface 701b is selectively attached, for example, by sewing to one or more sections of
the sock 401 for providing grip between a user contact surface and the sock 401, and for
providing grip between the sock 401 and an external contact surface. The selectively
attached patch 701 contacts both the user contact surface and the external contact surface
simultaneously.
[0065]    As exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 7A and FIG. 7D, an opening 401c is defined
in the sock 401. The patch 701 having the gripping surfaces 701a and 701b is then
targeted towards the opening 401c as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 7A and FIG. 7D, and
sewn along the edge 401d of the opening 401c, for example, using a sewing needle 702
as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 7B and FIG. 7E, to cover the opening 401c in the sock
401, thereby constructing a gripping garment 400, that is, a gripping sock as exemplarily
illustrated in FIG. 7C and FIG. 7F. The sewn patch 701 having the gripping surfaces
701a and 701b on a section of the gripping garment 400 provides a selective grip, for
example, to the heel of the user's foot between the user's heel and the patch 701 and
simultaneously provides grip, that is, traction between the patch 701 and footwear worn
by the user.
[0066]    FIGS. 7G-71 exemplarily illustrate selectively attaching a gripping material 402
to a section of a fabric structure 401 configured to conform to a user's body part to
construct a gripping garment 400. In an embodiment, a gripping material 402, for
example, natural leather or synthetic leather, having an inner gripping surface 402b and
an outer gripping surface 402c is selectively attached, for example, by sewing, heat

                                              24
pressing, etc., to one or more sections on the inner surface 401a and the outer surface
401b of the configured fabric structure 401, for example, a sock, a glove, etc., for
providing gripping properties, blister prevention properties, etc., to the configured fabric
structure 401. The resulting gripping garment 400 will therefore have a smooth leather
finish. In another example, gripping materials, for example, polyvinyl chloride,
thermoplastic elastomers, natural latex rubber, Clarino®, etc., are selectively applied, for
example, by sewing, heat pressing, etc., to one or more sections on the inner surface 401a
and the outer surface 401b of the configured fabric structure 401, for example, a sock, a
glove, etc., for providing gripping properties, blister prevention properties, etc., to the
configured fabric structure 401.
[0067]    In an embodiment as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 7G, an opening 401c is
defined in the configured fabric structure 401. The gripping material 402 having the
gripping surfaces 402b and 402c is then targeted towards the opening 401c as
exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 7G, and sewn along the opening 401c, for example, using
a sewing needle 702 as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 7H, to cover the opening 401c in
the configured fabric structure 401, thereby constructing a gripping garment 400, that is,
a gripping sock, a gripping glove, etc., as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 71. The sewn
gripping material 402 having the gripping surfaces 402b and 402c on a section of the
gripping garment 400 provides a grip to the user's body part between the user's body part
and the sewn gripping material 402 and simultaneously provides grip, that is, traction
between the sewn gripping material 402 and an external contact surface.
[0068]    FIGS. 8A-8D exemplarily illustrate selectively attaching a gripping material 402
to a fabric structure 401 configured to conform to a user's body part, for example, a
user's foot to construct a gripping garment 400, for example, a gripping sock. The
configured fabric structure 401 is herein referred to as a "sock" and is herein referenced
by the numeral 401. The threads of the fabric structure 401 are knitted, for example,
using a circular knitting machine 1109 exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B, to construct
the sock 401. The gripping material 402 is configured into one or more of multiple
shapes, as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 8A, for selective application or attachment of

                                               25
the gripping material 402 on the inner surface 401a and/or the outer surface 401b of the
sock 401. In this embodiment, the gripping material 402 itself is selectively attached in
one or more of multiple patterns to one or more sections of the sock 401 for providing
grip between the user contact surface and the sock 401, and for providing grip between
the sock 401 and the external contact surface.
[0069]    As exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 8B, the gripping material 402 is sewn on the
outer surface 401b of the sock 401, for example, using a sewing needle 702 to construct
the gripping garment 400 as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 8C. A sectional view of the
gripping garment 400 having the attached gripping material 402, taken along the line A
A' in FIG. 8C is exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 8D. In this embodiment, the fabric
structure 401 configured to conform to a user's body part, for example, the user's foot,
does not have one or more openings 401c that are to be filled in by a patch 701 as
exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 7A-7F or filled in by the gripping material 402 as
exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 7G-71. The gripping material 402 is disposed over the
sock 401 in one or more of multiple patterns on the inner surface 401a and/or the outer
surface 401b of the sock 401 and sewn thereon to construct the gripping garment 400 as
exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 8C-8D.
[0070]    FIG. 9 exemplarily illustrates an embodiment for creating a fabric structure 1301
as shown in FIGS. 13A-13B. Multiple gripping threads 1101a and 1102a and
supplementary threads 1101b and 1102b as exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 11A-11B,
FIG. 13B, and FIGS. 14A-14D are provided 901. As used herein, the "gripping threads"
refer to non-slip, sticky, tacky, and/or textured threads that exhibit generally high surface
adhesion and provide grip between the user contact surface and a fabric structure 1301
made from the gripping threads 1101a and 1102a, and simultaneously provide grip
between the fabric structure 1301 and the external contact surface. The gripping threads
1101a and 1102a are coated with an anti-adhesive material, for example, silicon, talcum
powder, etc., to prevent gathering and tangling in machinery. The gripping threads 1101a
and 1102a used for creating the fabric structure 1301 are made from non-slip materials,
tacky materials, and/or textured materials comprising, for example, one or more of

                                               26
synthetic rubber, natural latex, polyvinyl chloride, plastisol, thermoplastic rubber,
thermoplastic elastomers, polyurethane, thermoplastic coatings on conventional threads,
etc.
[0071]     Also, as used herein, the term "supplementary thread" refers to an additional
thread made from a conventional material, for example, cotton, nylon, polyester, wool,
etc., which is knitted along with a gripping thread 1101a or 1102a to create a first pair
1101 or a second pair 1102 as disclosed herein. The supplementary threads 1101b and
1102b are selected from materials comprising, for example, cotton, nylon, polyester,
spandex such as Lycra*, wool, etc. The gripping threads 1101a and 1102a are separated
902 into a first gripping thread 1101a and a second gripping thread 1102a. The first
gripping thread 1101a, the second gripping thread 1102a, a first supplementary thread
1101b, and a second supplementary thread 1102b are wound 903 onto a first spool
1104a, a second spool 1104b, a third spool 1104c, and a fourth spool 1104d respectively.
The first gripping thread 1101a and the first supplementary thread 1101b are grouped
904 into a first pair 1101. The second gripping thread 1102a and the second
supplementary thread 1102b are grouped 905 into a second pair 1102.
[0072]     The first pair 1101 is knitted 906 with the second pair 1102 to form the fabric
structure 1301. The first pair 1101 defines the inner surface 1301a of the fabric structure
1301. The second pair 1102 defines the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301.
The first gripping thread 1101a of the first pair 1101 is exposed on the inner surface
1301a of the fabric structure 1301 but not exposed on the outer surface 1301b of the
fabric structure 1301. The second gripping thread 1102a of the second pair 1102 is
exposed on the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301 but not exposed on the
inner surface 1301a of the fabric structure 1301. The inner surface 1301a defined by the
first pair 1101 provides grip between the user contact surface and the fabric structure
1301. The outer surface 1301b defined by the second pair 1102 provides grip between the
fabric structure 1301 and the external contact surface. The gripping threads 1101a and
1102a can also be placed only in certain selective areas on the inner surface 1301a and/or
the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301. Additionally, the fabric structure

                                               27
1301 can be created without the use of the conventional supplementary thread 1101b or
1102b, but rather the gripping threads 1101a and 1102a are used exclusively to create the
inner surface 1301a and the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301, or selective
areas or portions of the fabric structure 1301, for example, a heel section that
accommodates the user's heel, a ball section that accommodates the ball of the user's
foot, etc.
[0073]     FIG. 10 exemplarily illustrates an embodiment for creating an inner and outer
surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301 shown in FIGS. 13A-13B. Consider an
example where the first gripping thread 1101a, the second gripping thread 1102a, a first
supplementary thread 1101b, and a second supplementary thread 1102b, as exemplarily
illustrated in FIGS. 11A-11B, are wound 1001 onto a first spool 1104a, a second spool
1104b, a third spool 1104c, and a fourth spool 1104d respectively. The first spool 1104a
of the first gripping thread 1101a and the third spool 1104c of the first supplementary
thread 1101b are placed 1002 onto a rack 1107 positioned on a knitting unit 1106 above a
first finger tube 1105a as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B. The second spool 1104b of
the second gripping thread 1102a and the fourth spool 1104d of the second
supplementary thread 1102b are placed 1003 onto the rack 1107 positioned on the
knitting unit 1106 above a second finger tube 1105b as exemplarily illustrated in FIG.
11B.
[0074]     A first pair 1101 comprising the first gripping thread 1101a and the first
supplementary thread 1101b from the first spool 1104a and the third spool 1104c
respectively is fed 1004 into a first finger tube 1105a, while the second pair 1102
comprising the second gripping thread 1102a and the second supplementary thread
1102b from the second spool 1104b and the fourth spool 1104d respectively is fed 1005
into a second finger tube 1105b. The first pair 1101 and the second pair 1102 are
retrieved from the first finger tube 1105a and the second finger tube 1105b respectively
and knitted 1006, for example, using a latch needle 1108 of a knitting machine 1109, as
exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11C, for creating the fabric structure 1301 as exemplarily

                                             28
illustrated in FIG. 13B. The knitting machine 1109 is, for example, a Lonati 454
machine, Lonati Co., Brescia, Italy.
[0075]    FIGS. 11A-11B exemplarily illustrate knitting of a first pair 1101 comprising a
first gripping thread 1101a and a first supplementary thread 1101b with a second pair
1102 comprising a second gripping thread 1102a and a second supplementary thread
1102b for creating the fabric structure 1301 shown in FIG. 13B. The gripping threads
1101a and 1102a are separated out of a box into a first gripping thread 1101a and a
second gripping thread 1102a. FIG. 11A exemplarily illustrates multiple gripping threads
1101a and 1102a being separated and wound around spools 1104a and 1104b
respectively. The gripping threads 1101a and 1102a are separated into separate spools,
for example, 1104a and 1104b of gripping threads 1101a and 1102a respectively using a
twisting machine 1103. Consider an example where the first gripping thread 1101a, the
second gripping thread 1102a, a first supplementary thread 1101b, and a second
supplementary thread 1102b are wound onto a first spool 1104a, a second spool 1104b, a
third spool 1104c, and a fourth spool 1104d respectively. The first spool 1104a of the
first gripping thread 1101a and the third spool 1104c of the first supplementary thread
1101b are placed onto a rack 1107 positioned on a knitting unit 1106 above a first finger
tube 1105a as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B. The second spool 1104b of the second
gripping thread 1102a and the fourth spool 1104d of the second supplementary thread
1102b are placed onto the rack 1107 positioned on the knitting unit 1106 above a second
finger tube 1105b as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B.
[0076]    To create the inner surface 1301a of the fabric structure 1301, the first gripping
thread 1101a and the first supplementary thread 1101b from the first spool 1104a and the
third spool 1104c respectively are simultaneously fed into the first finger tube 1105a as
exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B. The first gripping thread 1101a and the first
supplementary thread 1101b are grouped into a first pair 1101 that defines the inner
surface 1301a of the fabric structure 1301 exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 13A-13B. To
create the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301, the second gripping thread
1102a and the second supplementary thread 1102b from the second spool 1104b and the

                                               29
fourth spool 1104d respectively are fed simultaneously into the second finger tube 1105b
as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B. The second gripping thread 1102a and the second
supplementary thread 1102b are grouped into a second pair 1102 that defines the outer
surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301 exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 13A-13B.
[0077]    The first pair 1101 is knitted with the second pair 1102 to form the fabric
structure 1301 using one or more of multiple latch needles 1108 in a circular knitting
machine 1109 as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B. The technique of knitting one or
more pairs 1101 of threads 1101a and 1101b to define the inner surface 1301a of the
fabric structure 1301 and one or more pairs 1102 of the same or different material threads
1102a and 1102b to define the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301 is known
as plating. The first gripping thread 1101a of the first pair 1101 is exposed on the inner
surface 1301a of the fabric structure 1301. The first gripping thread 1101a of the first
pair 1101 is not exposed on the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301. The
second gripping thread 1102a of the second pair 1102 is exposed on the outer surface
1301b of the fabric structure 1301. The second gripping thread 1102a of the second pair
1102 is not exposed on the inner surface 1301a of the fabric structure 1301.
[0078]    FIG. 11C exemplarily illustrates knitting the first pair 1101 and the second pair
1102 using a latch needle 1108 for creating the fabric structure 1301 shown in FIGS.
13A-13B. The latch needle 1108 receives the first pair 1101 of threads 1101a and 1101b
and the second pair 1102 of threads 1102a and 1102b at the same time to form the inner
surface 1301a and the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301 simultaneously as
exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11C. The gauge of the first gripping thread 1101a and
second gripping thread 1102a is, for example, in the range of about 1 millimeter diameter
to about 0.3 millimeter diameter.
[0079]    FIG. 12 exemplarily illustrates an embodiment for creating an inner surface
1301a and an outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301 shown in FIGS. 13A-13B.
Consider an example where there are four finger tubes active on the circular knitting
machine 1109 exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B. The first gripping thread 1101a, the

                                                30
second gripping thread 1102a, the first supplementary thread 1101b, and the second
supplementary thread 1102b are wound onto a first spool 1104a, a second spool 1104b, a
third spool 1104c, and a fourth spool 1104d respectively as exemplarily illustrated in
FIG. 11B. The first spool 1104a of the first gripping thread 1101a, the second spool
1104b of the second gripping thread 1102a, the third spool 1104c of the first
supplementary thread 1101b, and the fourth spool 1104d of the second supplementary
thread 1102b are placed onto the rack 1107 positioned on the knitting unit 1106 above a
first finger tube, a second finger tube, a third finger tube, and a fourth finger tube
respectively. The first gripping thread 1101a, the second gripping thread 1102a, the first
supplementary thread 1101b, and the second supplementary thread 1102b are fed 1201
into the first finger tube, the second finger tube, the third finger tube, and the fourth
finger tube respectively.
[0080]    In this method of creating the fabric structure 1301 shown in FIG. 13B, the latch
needles 1108 of the knitting machine 1109 exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B,
simultaneously retrieve the first supplementary thread 1101b and the second
supplementary thread 1102b from the third finger tube and the fourth finger tube
respectively. The first supplementary thread 1101b retrieved from the third finger tube
and the second supplementary thread 1102b retrieved from the fourth finger tube are
knitted 1202, for example, using a plating technique, where the first supplementary
thread 1101b goes to the inner surface 1301a of the fabric structure 1301, and the second
supplementary thread 1102b goes to the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301.
The first supplementary thread 1101b is exposed on the inner surface 1301a of the fabric
structure 1301, and the second supplementary thread 1102b is exposed on the outer
surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301.
[0081]    After a first course of knitting is complete, the latch needles 1108 on the circular
knitting machine 1109 simultaneously retrieve the first gripping thread 1101a from the
first finger tube and the second gripping thread 1102a from the second finger tube and
knit 1203 the first gripping thread 1101a and the second gripping thread 1102a in the
plating technique, where the first gripping thread 1101a goes to the inner surface 1301a

                                              31
of the fabric structure 1301 and the second gripping thread 1102a goes to the outer
surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301. The first gripping thread 1101a is exposed on
the inner surface 1301a of the fabric structure 1301 but not exposed on the outer surface
1301b of the fabric structure 1301. The second gripping thread 1102a is exposed on the
outer surface 1301b but not exposed on the inner surface 1301a of the fabric structure
1301. The first pair 1101 comprising the first gripping thread 1101a and the first
supplementary thread 1101b defines the inner surface 1301a of the fabric structure 1301.
The second pair 1102 comprising the second gripping thread 1102a and the second
supplementary thread 1102b defines the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301.
[0082]    The circular knitting machine 1109 then continues to alternate on each course of
knitting between the gripping threads 1101a and 1102a and the supplementary threads
1101b and 1102b until the fabric structure 1301 shown in FIGS. 13A-13B is created.
This technique is not limited to alternating between the gripping threads 1101a and
1102a and supplementary threads 1101b and 1102b on each course. As an example, the
gripping threads 1101a and 1102a may be knitted into the fabric structure 1301 on the
third course, the fourth course, or any combination thereof.
[0083]    FIG. 13A exemplarily illustrates a fabric structure 1301 configured to conform
to a user's body part. The fabric structure 1301 comprises an inner surface 1301a and an
outer surface 1301b. For example, the fabric structure 1301 is configured to conform to a
user's foot for constructing a garment, for example, a sock. The configured fabric
structure 1301 can be selectively applied with the gripping material 402 on the inner
surface 1301a and/or the outer surface 1301b of the configured fabric structure 1301 as
disclosed in the detailed description of FIG. 15A-15B.
[0084]    FIG. 13B exemplarily illustrates an enlarged sectional view of the fabric
structure 1301. The fabric structure 1301 comprises an inner surface 1301a and an outer
surface 1301b as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 13A. The inner surface 1301a of the
fabric structure 1301 is defined by a first pair 1101 comprising a first gripping thread
1101a and a first supplementary thread 1101b, and the outer surface 1301b of the fabric

                                                32
structure 1301 is defined by a second pair 1102 comprising a second gripping thread
1102a and a second supplementary thread 1102b as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 13B.
In an embodiment, the gripping material 402 is selectively applied on the first gripping
thread 1101a and/or the first supplementary thread 1101b in the first pair 1101 that
defines the inner surface 1301a of the fabric structure 1301, and on the second gripping
thread 1102a and/or the second supplementary thread 1102b in the second pair 1102 that
defines the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301 as exemplarily illustrated in
FIGS. 15A-15B. For example, the gripping material 402 can be added or coated to the
first gripping thread 1101a and/or the first supplementary thread 1101b in the first pair
1101, or on the second gripping thread 1102a and/or the second supplementary thread
1102b in the second pair 1102 at 1 / 1 6 th of an inch intervals rather than coating the entire
length of the threads 1101a, 1101b, 1102a, and 1102b on the spools 1104a, 1104c,
1104b, and 1104d respectively, exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B. In an embodiment,
the gripping material 402 can be added or coated on the entire length of the first gripping
thread 1101a and/or the first supplementary thread 1101b in the first pair 1101, or on the
second gripping thread 1102a and/or the second supplementary thread 1102b in the
second pair 1102.
[0085]    The gripping material 402 adheres to the first gripping thread 1101a and/or the
first supplementary thread 1101b in the first pair 1101 and to the second gripping thread
1102a and/or the second supplementary thread 1102b in the second pair 1102. The
gripping material 402 on the inner surface 1301a defined by the first pair 1101 and the
outer surface 1301b defined by the second pair 1102 adheres to the user contact surface
and the external contact surface respectively for providing enhanced grip between the
user contact surface and the fabric structure 1301, and between the fabric structure 1301
and the external contact surface respectively.
[0086]    FIGS. 14A-14D exemplarily illustrate multiple views of the fabric structure
1301 of FIGS. 13A-13B, showing a first pair 1101 comprising a first gripping thread
1101a and a first supplementary thread 1101b knitted with a second pair 1102
comprising a second gripping thread 1102a and a second supplementary thread 1102b for

                                              33
creating the fabric structure 1301. A bottom elevated view, a top view, and side views of
the first pair 1101 comprising the first gripping thread 1101a and the first supplementary
thread 1101b knitted with the second pair 1102 comprising the second gripping thread
1102a and the second supplementary thread 1102b are exemplarily illustrated in FIG.
14A, FIG. 14B, and FIGS. 14C-14D respectively. The fabric structure 1301 is made of
traction, gripping yarn herein referred to as a first gripping thread 1101a and a second
gripping thread 1102a, knitted with yarns made of a conventional material herein referred
to as supplementary threads 1101b and 1102b. The first gripping thread 1101a and the
second gripping thread 1102a are made of the same material. In an embodiment, the first
gripping thread 1101a and the second gripping thread 1102a are made of different
traction, gripping materials. The first gripping thread 1101a and the second gripping
thread 1102a are, for example, made of a synthetic material such as a synthetic rubber, or
a natural material such as latex also known as a natural rubber, or yarns coated with
natural latex, polyvinyl chloride, thermoplastic rubber or thermoplastic elastomers,
polyurethane, etc. In an embodiment, the gripping threads 1101a and 1102a are extruded
vulcanized natural latex, gauge 68 and 75, made by the following company: Heveafil
Sdn. Bdh., No. 1, Jalan Heveafil, 44300 Batang Kali, Ulu Selangor, Selangor Darul
Ehsan, Malaysia.
[0087]     The supplementary threads 1101b and 1102b are made, for example, of
materials such as cotton, nylon, Lycra, acrylic, wool or other conventional materials used
in the manufacture of, for example, socks, gloves, etc. In an embodiment, the fabric
structure 1301 comprises a first type of supplementary thread 1101b used to define the
inner surface 1301a of the fabric structure 1301 and a second type of supplementary
thread 1102b used to define the outer surface 1301b of the fabric structure 1301. For
example, the first supplementary thread 1101b used to define the inner surface 1301a of
the fabric structure 1301, that accompanies the first gripping thread 1101a, is made of
cotton, while the second supplementary thread 1102b used to define the outer surface
1301b of the fabric structure 1301, that accompanies the second gripping thread 1102a is,
for example, made of nylon. In an embodiment, the supplementary threads 1101b and

                                               34
1102b used for the inner surface 1301a and the outer surface 1301b are made of the same
material.
[0088]    For purposes of illustration, the detailed description of FIGS. 9-14D refers to the
creation of the fabric structure 1301 by knitting a first pair 1101 comprising a first
gripping thread 1101a and a first supplementary thread 1101b, and a second pair 1102
comprising a second gripping thread 1102a and a second supplementary thread 1102b.
However, the scope of the method disclosed herein is not limited to the first pair 1101
and the second pair 1102 but may be extended to include multiple pairs of multiple
threads. In an embodiment, the first pair 1101 of threads 1101a and 1101b and the second
pair 1102 of threads 1102a and 1102b are knitted to create the fabric structure 1301 such
that the inner surface 1301a of the fabric structure 1301 and the outer surface 1301b of
the fabric structure 1301 are made of threads of the same gripping material
supplementary material. In an embodiment, different gripping material-supplementary
material thread combinations are used for creation of the fabric structure 1301.
[0089]    FIGS. 15A-15B exemplarily illustrate selective application of a gripping
material 402 on a fabric structure 1301 configured to conform to a user's body part as
shown in FIGS. 13A-13B, by spraying the gripping material 402 on the configured fabric
structure 1301 to construct a gripping garment 400. The fabric structure 1301 is
configured to conform to a user's body part, for example, the user's foot to construct, for
example, a sock. In this embodiment, the configured fabric structure 1301 is herein
referred to as a "sock". The sock configured from the fabric structure 1301 as disclosed in
the detailed description of FIGS. 9-14D and as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 13A, is
herein referenced by the numeral 1301. As exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 15A, the
gripping material 402, for example, in a liquid form is sprayed through a nozzle 601 onto
the outer surface 1301b of the sock 1301. The gripping material 402 may also be
selectively applied on the inner surface 1301a of the sock 1301, for example, by spraying
the gripping material 402 on the inner surface 1301a of the sock 1301 in one or more of
multiple patterns.

                                              35
[0090]    The gripping material 402 is selectively applied on the first gripping thread
1101a and/or the first supplementary thread 1101b in the first pair 1101 that defines the
inner surface 1301a of the sock 1301, and on the second gripping thread 1102a and/or the
second supplementary thread 1102b in the second pair 1102 that defines the outer surface
1301b of the sock 1301 exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 13A-13B, for example, by
spraying the gripping material 402 on selected areas on the inner surface 1301a and/or
the outer surface 1301b of the sock 1301 in one or more of multiple patterns. As
exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 15A, the gripping material 402 adheres to the first
supplementary thread 1101b in the first pair 1101 and to the second gripping thread
1102a in the second pair 1102. The gripping material 402 on the inner surface 1301a
defined by the first pair 1101 and the outer surface 1301b defined by the second pair
1102 adheres to the user contact surface and the external contact surface respectively for
providing enhanced grip between the user contact surface and the sock 1301, and
between the sock 1301 and the external contact surface respectively.
[0091]    In an embodiment, the gripping material 402 is selectively applied on the first
gripping thread 1101a and/or the first supplementary thread 1101b in the first pair 1101
that defines the inner surface 1301a of the sock 1301, and on the second gripping thread
1102a and/or the second supplementary thread 1102b in the second pair 1102 that defines
the outer surface 1301b of the sock 1301 exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 13A-13B, for
example, by one or more of painting, pouring, screen printing, etc., the gripping material
402 on selected areas on the inner surface 1301a and/or the outer surface 1301b of the
sock 1301 in one or more of multiple patterns.
[0092]    Consider an example of constructing a foot gripping garment 400, as
exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 4A-8D, that provides grip to a user's foot between the
user's foot and the foot gripping garment 400, and that simultaneously provides grip to
the user's foot between the foot gripping garment 400 and an inside surface of footwear
worn by the user. The footwear comprises, for example, shoes such as soccer shoes,
basketball shoes, tennis shoes, running shoes, skate boots, ski boots, etc. In the method
disclosed herein, the fabric structure 401 is configured to conform to the user's foot to

                                              36
create a foot enclosure, for example, a sock also referenced herein by the numeral 401 by
knitting different natural yarns and/or synthetic yams using a circular knitting machine
1109 as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B. The natural yarns and/or the synthetic yarns
are first wrapped or packaged on yarn cones or yam spools by specific machinery and
then shipped to knitting mills for the production of the foot enclosure. The yarn cones
hang from racks 1107 overtop the circular knitting machine 1109. The natural yarns
and/or the synthetic yams from the yam cones or the yarn spools are fed through finger
tubes 1105a and 1105b and moved through a series of latch needles 1108 and sinkers that
closely knit the sock 401 together. The top of the sock 401 is completed as a circular
opening at the section of the sock 401 that pulls over the leg. The circular knitting
machines 1109 create an opening at the bottom of the sock 401 that is completed on a
separate machine into a toe seam. The created sock 401 is composed of any conventional
fabric, for example, open end cotton, ring spun/combed cotton, Lycra, acrylic, nylon,
wool, etc.
[0093]    The sock 401 defines an inner surface 401a and an outer surface 401b as
exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 4A-4C. The inner surface 401a of the sock 401 is in
close proximity to the user's foot and distal to the footwear, when the user is wearing the
sock 401 and the footwear. The outer surface 401b of the sock 401 is distal to the user's
foot and proximal to the footwear, when the user is wearing the sock 401 and the
footwear. A gripping material 402 is selectively applied on the inner surface 401a and the
outer surface 401b of the sock 401 to construct the foot gripping garment 400. The
selective application of the gripping material 402 on the inner surface 401a and the outer
surface 401b of the sock 401 is performed, for example, by painting, pouring, screen
printing, spraying, etc., the gripping material 402 on the inner surface 401a and the outer
surface 401b of the sock 401.
[0094]    The gripping material 402 on the inner surface 401a and the outer surface 401b
of the sock 401 simultaneously adheres to the user's foot and the inside surface of the
footwear respectively, when the user is wearing the foot gripping garment 400 and the
footwear. The adherence of the gripping material 402 on the inner surface 401a and the

                                              37
outer surface 401b of the sock 401 to the user's foot and the inside surface of the
footwear respectively provides grip to the user's foot between the user's foot and the foot
gripping garment 400, and simultaneously provides grip to the user's foot between the
foot gripping garment 400 and the inside surface of the footwear, thereby preventing the
user's foot from slipping inside the foot gripping garment 400 and prevents the foot
gripping garment 400 from slipping inside the footwear by adhering to both the skin on
the user's foot and the inside material or the inside surface of the footwear
simultaneously.
[0095]    In an embodiment, the selective application of the gripping material 402 on the
inner surface 401a and the outer surface 401b of the sock 401 is performed as follows: A
design frame 501 comprising one or more patterned holes 502 is created. The design
frame 501 is, for example, a design mold comprising patterned holes 502, a screen, etc.
The created design frame 501 is positioned on each of the inner surface 401a and the
outer surface 401b of the sock 401. The design frame 501 is positioned, for example,
over the top of the inner surface 401a of the sock 401 and over the top of the outer
surface 401b of the sock 401. The gripping material 402 is selectively applied on the
positioned design frame 501 on each of the inner surface 401a and the outer surface 401b
of the sock 401. The gripping material 402 passes through the patterned holes 502 of the
design frame 501 and adheres to each of the inner surface 401a and the outer surface
401b of the sock 401 in a pattern defined by the patterned holes 502 of the design frame
501.
[0096]    Consider another example where a design frame 501 or mold with the patterned
holes 502 or the screen is created and placed over the top of the outer surface 401b of the
sock 401 as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 5A. The gripping material 402, for example,
thermoplastic rubber that is in a liquid form as the thermoplastic rubber is mixed in a
solution base, or heated to a melting point, is sprayed, screen printed, poured or painted
on the design frame 501 or the screen that is positioned on the outer surface 401b of the
sock 401. The thermoplastic rubber passes through the patterned holes 502 in the design
frame 501 or the screen and onto the outer surface 401b of the sock 401, thereby creating

                                              38
a pattern of the thermoplastic rubber on the outer surface 401b of the sock 401. The
design frame 501 with the patterned holes 502 or the screen is also placed over the top of
the inner surface 401a of the sock 401. The thermoplastic rubber is then sprayed, screen
printed, poured or painted on the design frame 501 or the screen that is positioned on the
inner surface 401a of the sock 401. The thermoplastic rubber passes through the holes
502 in the design frame 501 or the screen and onto inner surface 401a of the sock 401,
thereby creating a pattern of the thermoplastic rubber on the inner surface 401a of the
sock 401. The creation of the pattern of the thermoplastic rubber on the outer surface
401b and the inner surface 401a of the sock 401 allows the sock 401 to adhere, for
example, to the skin of the user's foot and the inside surface of the user's footwear
simultaneously, thereby inhibiting slippage between the user's foot and the inside surface
of the user's footwear.
[0097]    The selective application of the gripping material 402 on the inner surface 401a
and the outer surface 401b of the sock 401 to construct the foot gripping garment 400
prevents the foot of a user, for example, a player, a sportsman, etc., wearing the foot
gripping garment 400 from slipping inside the foot gripping garment 400 by providing
grip to the user's foot between the foot and the foot gripping garment 400, and
simultaneously prevents the user's foot from slipping inside the footwear by providing
grip to the user's foot between the foot gripping garment 400 and the inside surface of the
footwear.
[0098]    In another embodiment, the selective application of the gripping material 402 on
the inner surface 401a and the outer surface 401b of the sock 401 to construct the foot
gripping garment 400 is performed, for example, by utilizing a heat press 407, as
disclosed in the detailed description of FIGS. 4A-4C, for transferring the gripping
material 402 to the inner surface 401a and the outer surface 401b of the sock 401. In this
embodiment, the design frame 501, for example, the design frame 501 or the screen is not
used. The selective application of the gripping material 402 to the inner surface 401a and
the outer surface 401b of the sock 401 to construct the foot gripping garment 400, by the
heat press 407 eliminates any slippage between the user's foot and the inner surface 401a

                                             39
of the sock 401, while simultaneously eliminating any slippage between the outer surface
401b of the sock 401 and the inside surface of the footwear, when the user wears the foot
gripping garment 400 and the footwear.
[0099]    Consider another example where a fabric structure 1301 as exemplarily
illustrated in FIG. 13B is configured to conform to a user's hand and fingers using the
circular knitting machine 1109 to create a hand enclosure, for example, a glove. To create
the hand enclosure, the gripping threads 1101a, 1102a, etc., are separated into two
separate spools 1104a and 1104b of gripping threads 1101a, 1102a, etc., using a twisting
machine 1103 as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11A. The spools 1104a and 1104b of
gripping threads 1101a, 1102a, etc., are placed on a rack 1107. The rack 1107 is
positioned on a knitting unit 1106 as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11B.
[0100]    A single gripping thread 1101a and a single strand of a first supplementary
thread 1101b, for example, a cotton thread, are drawn simultaneously from the spools
1104a and 1104c respectively into the first finger tube 1105a for grouping into the first
pair 1101. The first pair 1101 defines the inner surface of the hand enclosure. The second
gripping thread 1102a and a single strand of the second supplementary thread 1102b, for
example, a nylon thread, are drawn simultaneously from the spools 1104b and 1104d
respectively into a second finger tube 1105b for grouping into the second pair 1102. The
second pair 1102 defines the outer surface of the hand enclosure.
[0101]    The first pair 1101 and the second pair 1102 are knitted using a latch needle
1108 as exemplarily illustrated in FIG. 11C. The latch needle 1108 receives the first pair
1101 and the second pair 1102 at the same time to form the inner surface and the outer
surface simultaneously, for example, in a knitting pattern known as plating. The inner
surface formed by the first pair 1101 comprising the first gripping thread 1101a and the
first supplementary thread 1101b provide grip to the user's hand within the hand
enclosure. The first pair 1101 may be knitted with the second pair 1102 in a twin
threaded pattern as exemplarily illustrated in FIGS. 14A-14D to create the hand
enclosure. In an embodiment, a piece of conventional fabric made from, for example,

                                               40
cotton, nylon, wool, acrylic, polyester, polypropylene, and/or spandex is used for creating
the hand enclosure.
[0102]    In this example, a gripping material 402 is selectively applied on the inner
surface of the hand enclosure to construct the gripping hand garment, for example, a
gripping glove. The selective application of the gripping material 402 on the inner surface
of the hand enclosure is performed, for example, by one or more of painting, pouring,
screen printing, spraying, heat pressing, selectively attaching by sewing, etc., the gripping
material 402 on the inner surface of the hand enclosure.
[0103]    The gripping material 402 on the inner surface of the hand enclosure
simultaneously adheres to the user's hand, when the user is wearing the gripping hand
garment. The adherence of the gripping material 402 on the inner surface of the hand
enclosure to the user's hand provides grip to the user's hand between the user's hand and
the hand enclosure. The gripping hand garment therefore prevents the user's hand from
slipping inside the gripping hand garment by adhering to the surface of the user's hand.
[0104]    For purposes of illustration, the detailed description refers to construction of a
foot gripping garment 400, for example, a gripping sock and a gripping hand garment, for
example, a gripping glove using the method disclosed herein; however the scope of the
method disclosed herein is not limited to the construction of a gripping sock and a
gripping glove but may be extended to the construction of any gripping garment that can
be worn by the user for obtaining grip.
[0105]    The foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of
explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention
disclosed herein. While the invention has been described with reference to various
embodiments, it is understood that the words, which have been used herein, are words of
description and illustration, rather than words of limitation. Further, although the
invention has been described herein with reference to particular means, materials and
embodiments, the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed

                                               41
herein; rather, the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures, methods and
uses, such as are within the scope of the appended claims. Those skilled in the art, having
the benefit of the teachings of this specification, may affect numerous modifications
thereto and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the
invention in its aspects.

                                                   42
CLAIMS
1.    A method for constructing a gripping sock, comprising:
       creating a fabric structure that defines an inner surface and an outer surface, wherein said
inner surface is proximal to a user contact surface and distal to an external contact surface, and
wherein said outer surface is proximal to said external contact surface and distal to said user
contact surface; and
       applying a gripping material on said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric
structure, wherein said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer surface of said
fabric structure adheres to said user contact surface and said external contact surface
respectively;
      whereby said adherence of said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer
surface of said fabric structure to said user contact surface and said external contact surface
respectively provides grip between said user contact surface and said fabric structure, and
simultaneously provides grip between said fabric structure and said external contact surface.
2.     The method of claim 1, wherein said gripping material is one of a non-slip material, a
tacky material, a textured material, and any combination thereof.
3.     The method of claim 1, wherein said application of said gripping material on said inner
surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure is performed by heat pressing for
transferring said gripping material to said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric
structure in one or more of a plurality of patterns.
4.     The method of claim 1, wherein said application of said gripping material on said inner
surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure is performed by spraying said gripping
material on said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure in one or more of a
plurality of patterns.
5.     The method of claim 1, wherein said application of said gripping material on said inner
surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure is performed by pouring said gripping
material on said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure in one or more of a
plurality of patterns.

                                                  43
6.     The method of claim 1, wherein said application of said gripping material on inner surface
and said outer surface of said fabric structure is performed by one of painting and screen printing
said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure in one
or more of a plurality of patterns.
7.     The method of claim 1, further comprising configuring said gripping material into one or
more of a plurality of shapes for said application of said gripping material on said inner surface
and said outer surface of said fabric structure.
8.     The method of claim 1, wherein said application of said gripping material on said inner
surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure comprises:
       creating a design frame comprising one or more patterned holes;
      positioning said created design frame on each of said one or more of said inner surface and
said outer surface of said fabric structure; and
       selectively applying said gripping material on said positioned design frame on said each of
said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure, wherein said gripping material
passes through said one or more patterned holes of said positioned design frame and adheres to
said each of said one or more of said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure
in a pattern defined by said one or more patterned holes of said positioned design frame.
9.     The method of claim 8, wherein said selective application of said gripping material on said
positioned design frame is performed by one or more of painting, pouring, screen printing, and
spraying said gripping material on said positioned design frame to allow said gripping material
to pass through said one or more patterned holes of said positioned design frame and adhere to
said each of said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure in said pattern
defined by said one or more patterned holes of said positioned design frame.
10.    The method of claim 1, wherein said fabric structure is configured to conform to a body
part of a user for constructing the sock gripping.
11.    The method of claim 1, wherein said fabric structure with said applied gripping material is
configured to conform to a body part of a user for creating the gripping sock.

                                                   44
12.    The method of claim 1, wherein said creation of said fabric structure comprises:
       providing a plurality of gripping threads and supplementary threads;
       separating said gripping threads into a first gripping thread and a second gripping thread;
       winding said first gripping thread, said second gripping thread, a first supplementary
thread, and a second supplementary thread onto a first spool, a second spool, a third spool, and a
fourth spool respectively;
       grouping said first gripping thread and said first supplementary thread into a first pair;
       grouping said second gripping thread and said second supplementary thread into a second
pair; and
       knitting said first pair with said second pair to form said fabric structure, said first pair
defining said inner surface of said fabric structure, said second pair defining said outer surface of
said fabric structure, wherein said first gripping thread of said first pair is exposed on said inner
surface of said fabric structure, and wherein said first gripping thread of said first pair is not
substantially exposed on said outer surface of said fabric structure, and wherein said second
gripping thread of said second pair is exposed on said outer surface of said fabric structure, and
wherein said second gripping thread of said second pair is not substantially exposed on said inner
surface of said fabric structure;
       whereby said inner surface defined by said first pair provides grip between said user
contact surface and said fabric structure, and said outer surface defined by said second pair
provides grip between said fabric structure and said external contact surface.
13.    The method of claim 12, further comprising:
       feeding said first gripping thread and said first supplementary thread from said first spool
and said third spool respectively into a first finger tube; and
       feeding said second gripping thread and said second supplementary thread from said
second spool and said fourth spool respectively into a second finger tube.
14.    The method of claim 12, wherein said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric
structure are created by:
       feeding said first gripping thread, said second gripping thread, said first supplementary
thread, and said second supplementary thread into a first finger tube, a second finger tube, a third
finger tube, and a fourth finger tube respectively;

                                                   45
       knitting said first supplementary thread retrieved from said third finger tube and said
second supplementary thread retrieved from said fourth finger tube using a plating technique,
wherein said first supplementary thread is exposed on said inner surface of said fabric structure,
and wherein said second supplementary thread is exposed on said outer surface of said fabric
structure; and
       knitting said first gripping thread retrieved from said first finger tube and said second
gripping thread retrieved from said second finger tube using a plating technique, wherein said
first gripping thread is exposed on said inner surface of said fabric structure but not exposed on
said outer surface of said fabric structure,
       and wherein said second gripping thread is exposed on said outer surface of said fabric
structure but not exposed on said inner surface of said fabric structure, and wherein a first pair of
said first gripping thread and said first supplementary thread defines said inner surface of said
fabric structure, and a second pair of said second gripping thread and said second supplementary
thread defines said outer surface of said fabric structure.
15.    The method of claim 12, wherein said gripping threads are made from one or more of non
slip materials, tacky materials, and textured materials comprising one or more of synthetic
rubber, natural latex, polyvinyl chloride, thermoplastic rubber, thermoplastic elastomers, and
polyurethane.
16.    The method of claim 12, wherein said gripping material is selectively applied on one or
more of said first gripping thread and said first supplementary thread in said first pair that
defines said inner surface of said fabric structure, and on one or more of said second gripping
thread and said second supplementary thread in said second pair that defines said outer surface of
said fabric structure, wherein said gripping material adheres to said one or more of said first
gripping thread and said first supplementary thread in said first pair and to said one or more of
said second gripping thread and said second supplementary thread in said second pair, wherein
said gripping material on said inner surface defined by said first pair and said outer surface
defined by said second pair adheres to said user contact surface and said external contact surface
respectively for providing enhanced grip between said user contact surface and said fabric
structure, and between said fabric structure and said external contact surface respectively.
17.    The method of claim 1, wherein said fabric structure comprises one or more gripping
threads in selective areas on said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure.

                                                     46
18.    The method of claim 1, wherein said creation of said fabric structure comprises knitting
gripping threads that define said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure.
19.   A sock comprising:
       a fabric structure that defines an inner surface and an outer surface, wherein said inner
surface is proximal to a user contact surface and distal to an external contact surface, and
wherein said outer surface is proximal to said external contact surface and distal to said user
contact surface; and
       a gripping material applied on said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric
structure, wherein said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer surface of said
fabric structure adheres to said user contact surface and said external contact surface
respectively;
      whereby said adherence of said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer
surface of said fabric structure to said user contact surface and said external contact surface
respectively provides grip between said user contact surface and said fabric structure, and
provides grip between said fabric structure and said external contact surface.
20.    The sock of claim 19, wherein said fabric structure comprises:
       a first pair, said first pair comprising a first gripping thread and a first supplementary
thread, said first pair defining said inner surface of said fabric structure, wherein said first
gripping thread is exposed on said inner surface of said fabric structure, and wherein said first
gripping thread is not substantially exposed on said outer surface of said fabric structure; and
       a second pair, said second pair comprising a second gripping thread and a second
supplementary thread, said second pair defining said outer surface of said fabric structure,
wherein said second gripping thread is exposed on said outer surface of said fabric structure, and
wherein said second gripping thread is not substantially exposed on said inner surface of said
fabric structure, and wherein said second pair is knitted with said first pair to create said fabric
structure;
      whereby said inner surface defined by said first pair provides grip between said use contact
surface and said fabric structure, and said outer surface defined by said second pair provides grip
between said fabric structure and said external contact surface.

                                                  47
21.   A method for constructing a gripping sock that provides grip to a body part of a user
between said body part and said gripping sock, and that simultaneously provides grip to said
body part of said user between said gripping garment and an external contact surface,
comprising:
       creating a fabric structure configured to conform to said body part of said user, said fabric
structure defining an inner surface and an outer surface, wherein said inner surface is proximal to
said body part of said user and distal to said external contact surface, when said user is wearing
said configured fabric structure, and wherein said outer surface is distal to said body part of said
user and proximal to said external contact surface, when said user is wearing said configured
fabric structure; and
       applying a gripping material on said inner surface and said outer surface of said configured
fabric structure to construct said gripping sock, wherein said gripping material on said inner
surface and said outer surface of said configured fabric structure adheres to said body part of said
user and said external contact surface respectively, when said user is wearing said gripping
garment comprising said configured fabric structure with said selectively applied gripping
material;
      whereby said adherence of said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer
surface of said configured fabric structure to said body part of said user and said external contact
surface respectively provides grip to said body part of said user between said body part and said
gripping garment, and simultaneously provides grip to said body part of said user between said
gripping garment and said external contact surface.
22.    The method of claim 21, wherein said application of said gripping material on said inner
surface and said outer surface of said configured fabric structure comprises:
       creating a design frame comprising one or more patterned holes;
      positioning said created design frame on each of said one or more of said inner surface and
said outer surface of said configured fabric structure; and
       selectively applying said gripping material on said positioned design frame on said each of
said one or more of said inner surface and said outer surface of said fabric structure, wherein said
gripping material passes through said one or more patterned holes of said positioned design
frame and adheres to said each of said one or more of said inner surface and said outer surface of
said configured fabric structure in a pattern defined by said one or more patterned holes of said
positioned design frame.

                                                   48
23.    The method of claim 21, wherein said application of said gripping material on said inner
surface and said outer surface of said configured fabric structure is performed by one or more of
painting, pouring, screen printing, spraying, heat pressing, and selectively attaching said gripping
material on said one or more of said inner surface and said outer surface of said configured fabric
structure in one or more of a plurality of patterns.
24.    The method of claim 21, wherein said creation of said fabric structure comprises:
       providing a plurality of gripping threads and supplementary threads;
       separating said gripping threads into a first gripping thread and a second gripping thread;
       winding said first gripping thread, said second gripping thread, a first supplementary
thread, and a second supplementary thread onto a first spool, a second spool, a third spool, and a
fourth spool respectively;
       grouping said first gripping thread and said first supplementary thread into a first pair;
       grouping said second gripping thread and said second supplementary thread into a second
pair; and
       knitting said first pair with said second pair to form said fabric structure, said first pair
defining said inner surface of said fabric structure, said second pair defining said outer surface of
said fabric structure, wherein said first gripping thread of said first pair is exposed on said inner
surface of said fabric structure, and wherein said first gripping thread of said first pair is not
exposed on said outer surface of said fabric structure, and wherein said second gripping thread of
said second pair is exposed on said outer surface of said fabric structure, and wherein said
second gripping thread of said second pair is not exposed on said inner surface of said fabric
structure;
       whereby said inner surface defined by said first pair provides grip between said user
contact surface and said fabric structure, and said outer surface defined by said second pair
simultaneously provides grip between said fabric structure and said external contact surface.
25.    A gripping sock that provides grip to a body part of a user between said body part and said
gripping sock, and that simultaneously provides grip to said body part of said user between said
gripping sock and an external contact surface, comprising:
       a fabric structure configured to conform to said body part of said user, said fabric structure
defining an inner surface and an outer surface, wherein said inner surface is proximal to said
body part of said user and distal to said external contact surface, when said user is wearing said

                                                 49
configured fabric structure, and wherein said outer surface is distal to said body part of said user
and proximal to said external contact surface, when said user is wearing said configured fabric
structure; and
       a gripping material applied on said inner surface and said outer surface of said configured
fabric structure, wherein said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer surface of
said configured fabric structure adheres to said body part of said user and said external contact
surface respectively, when said user is wearing said gripping garment comprising said
configured fabric structure with said selectively applied gripping material;
      whereby said adherence of said gripping material on said inner surface and said outer
surface of said configured fabric structure to said body part of said user and said external contact
surface respectively provides grip to said body part of said user between said body part and said
gripping sock, and simultaneously provides grip to said body part of said user between said
gripping sock and said external contact surface.
26.    The gripping sock of claim 25, wherein said selective application of said gripping material
on said inner surface and said outer surface of said configured fabric structure is performed by
one or more of painting, pouring, screen printing, spraying, heat pressing, and selectively
attaching said gripping material on said one or more of said inner surface and said outer surface
of said configured fabric structure in one or more of a plurality of patterns.
                                       James Paul Cherneski
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

