                                               ABSTRACT
An inverter (1) for a photovoltaic apparatus (100), said inverter comprising a DC electric bus (3)
having a plurality of electric lines (Li, L2 , LN) forming corresponding DC input channels for said
inverter.
The inverter comprises a choke filter (10) comprising a single magnetic circuit (2) and a plurality of
choke windings (W1 , W 2 , WN) enchained with said magnetic circuit.
Said choke windings (W 1, W 2 , WN) are electrically connected in series with corresponding line
conductors (C1 , C2) of said electric lines (Li, L2 , LN), which have a same voltage polarity.
Said choke windings (W 1 , W 2 , WN) are arranged so that AC electric currents flowing along said
choke windings generate magnetic fluxes having concordant directions.
In a further aspect, the invention relates also to a choke filter (10) for a DC electric bus (3) of a
photovoltaic apparatus (100).
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                  8/8
                                                  00
           -             -----------
                                              N I LL
    L-- - - - - - - - -- - - - - -
                             ---------
-J4
       - - -- - -- - - -  - - - -  - - - - -- -

                                                     1
                   A MULTI-CHANNEL INVERTER FOR A PHOTOVOLTAIC APPARATUS
                                             DESCRIPTION
The present invention relates to a multi-channel inverter for a photovoltaic apparatus.
Multi-channel inverters are widely used in photovoltaic apparatuses comprising multiple strings or
photovoltaic panels.
A multi-channel inverter typically comprises a DC electric bus, which electrically connects the
photovoltaic panels with a DC/AC conversion stage of the inverter.
Such a DC electric bus normally includes a plurality of electric lines, each of which forms a
corresponding DC input channel of the inverter, which is operatively coupled with the DC/AC
conversion stage.
In operation, DC currents, which are generated by the photovoltaic panels, flow along the DC
electric bus towards the DC/AC conversion stage.
As is known, however, said DC currents are overlapped with differential-mode AC currents, which
substantially are disturbances with a well-defined spectral content generated by the electric or
electronic components of the inverter and, more generally, of the photovoltaic apparatus (e.g. the
photovoltaic panels).
Even if regulations do not currently impose severe limits to this kind of disturbances, it is quite
advisable to reduce or avoid the introduction of current noise at the DC section of the photovoltaic
apparatus.
In fact, such noise may remarkably affect operation of ancillary devices of the photovoltaic
apparatus such as optimizers, rapid shut-down devices and, above, arc fault detection devices,
thereby leading to undesired and unnecessary interruptions of the operation of the photovoltaic
apparatus itself.
For this reason, some currently available multi-channel inverters include choke filter arrangements
to suppress or reduce said differential-mode currents flowing along the DC electric bus.
Unfortunately, choke filters currently adopted in multi-channel inverters have a cumbersome
structure, which is often difficult to integrate circuitally with the DC electric bus and, possibly, with
the other components of the inverter with a consequent increase of the overall occupied volumes.
Finally, these conventional filter arrangements are relatively expensive to manufacture and install at
industrial level.
The main aim of the present invention is to provide a multi-channel inverter for a photovoltaic
apparatus, which enables the disadvantages described above to be overcome.
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                     2
Within this aim, another object of the present invention is to provide a multi-channel inverter, in
which differential-mode AC currents flowing along the DC electric bus are suppressed or
remarkably reduced.
Another object of the present invention is to provide a multi-channel inverter, which has a compact
structure with a relatively small size.
Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a multi-channel inverter, which is easy and
inexpensive to produce at industrial level.
This aim and these objects, together with other objects that will be more apparent from the
subsequent description and from the accompanying drawings, are achieved, according to the
invention, by an inverter, according to claim 1 and the related dependent claims.
In a general definition, the inverter, according to the invention, comprises a DC electric bus having
a plurality of electric lines forming corresponding DC input channels for said inverter. Each electric
line comprises a pair of line conductors adapted to operate at opposite voltage polarities.
The inverter, according to the invention, comprises a choke filter having a single magnetic circuit
and a plurality of choke windings enchained with said single magnetic circuit so as to be
magnetically coupled one to another.
The choke windings of said choke filter are electrically connected in series with corresponding line
conductors of said electric lines, which have a same voltage polarity.
Said choke windings have first terminals electrically coupled with upstream portions of said
corresponding line conductors and second terminals electrically coupled with a corresponding
common electric node, which is in turn electrically coupled with downstream portions of said
corresponding line conductors (reference is made to the main direction of the generated power flow,
i.e. from the photovoltaic panels to the inverter).
Said choke windings are arranged so that AC electric currents flowing along said choke windings
generate magnetic fluxes having concordant directions.
Preferably, said choke filter comprises a single magnetic core around which said choke windings
are wound. Said single magnetic core forms the single magnetic circuit of said choke filter.
According to some embodiments of the invention, said choke windings are electrically connected in
series with corresponding line conductors adapted to operate at a positive voltage polarity.
According to other embodiments of the invention, said choke windings are electrically connected in
series with corresponding line conductors adapted to operate at a negative voltage polarity.
In a further aspect, the present invention relates to a choke filter, according to the following claim 9.
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                     3
In a general definition, the choke filter of the invention is adapted for being electrically coupled to a
DC electric bus of a photovoltaic apparatus.
The choke filter comprises a single magnetic circuit and a plurality of choke windings enchained
with said single magnetic circuit.
The choke windings of said choke filter are electrically connectable in series with corresponding
line conductors of the electric lines of the DC electric bus, which have a same voltage polarity.
Said choke windings have first terminals electrically coupleable with upstream portions of said
corresponding line conductors and second terminals electrically coupled with a corresponding
common electric node, which is in turn electrically coupleable with downstream portions of said
corresponding line conductors.
Said choke windings are arranged so that electric currents flowing along said choke windings
generate magnetic fluxes having concordant directions.
Preferably, the choke filter of the invention comprises a single magnetic core around which said
choke windings are wound.
In the choke filter of the invention, the choke windings may be electrically connectable in series
with corresponding line conductors adapted to operate at a positive voltage polarity or with
corresponding line conductors adapted to operate at a negative voltage polarity.
Further characteristics and advantages of the present invention will be more apparent with reference
to the description given below and to the accompanying figures, provided purely for explanatory
and non-limiting purposes, wherein:
- Fig. 1 schematically illustrates a photovoltaic apparatus including an inverter, according to the
     present invention;
- Figs. 2-8 schematically illustrate a choke filter operatively coupled to a DC electric bus in some
     possible embodiments of the inverter, according to the present invention.
With reference to the aforesaid figures, the present invention relates to an inverter 1 for a low
voltage photovoltaic apparatus 100.
For the sake of clarity, it is specified that the term "low voltage" refers to operating voltages lower
than 1 kV AC and 1.5 kV DC.
Referring now to figure 1, the photovoltaic apparatus 100 comprises one or more photovoltaic
panels 200 and an inverter 1 having an DC/AC conversion stage 4.
The inverter 1 comprises a DC electric bus 3, which is electrically connected with the photovoltaic
panels 200 and a DC input port 41 of the conversion stage 4.
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                                  4
Conveniently, the inverter 1 comprises an AC electric bus 7, which is electrically connected with
the electric power distribution grid 300 and an AC output port 42 of the conversion stage 4.
The DC electric bus 3 has a plurality of DC electric lines L1 , ..., LN (N>1) that electrically connect
the photovoltaic panels 200 with the AC/DC conversion stage 4.
The electric lines L1 , ..., LN are advantageously adapted to form corresponding DC input channels
for the inverter 1, each of which provides a DC current to the AC/DC conversion stage 4.
The inverter 1 is thus of the multi-channel type.
Preferably, the inverter 1 is operated in such a way that the electric lines L1 , ..., LN form
corresponding interleaved DC input channels.
Preferably, the AC/DC conversion stage 4 is capable of carrying out MPPT (Maximum Power Point
Tracking) functionalities for each DC input channel.
In order to allow the flow of DC electric currents from the photovoltaic panels 200 to the A/C
conversion stage 4, each electric line L1 , ..., LN of the DC electric bus 3 comprises at least a pair of
line conductors C1 , C2 having opposite voltage polarities.
As an example, each electric line L1, ...,               LN  may comprise a first line conductor C1 with a positive
voltage polarity (e.g. forming the supply conductor of the electric line) and a second line conductor
C2 with a negative voltage polarity (e.g. forming the return conductor of the electric line).
The DC electric bus 3 will thus have N (N >1) line conductors C 1 having a positive voltage polarity
and N line conductors C2 having a negative voltage polarity.
The line conductors C1, C2 of each electric line L1 , ..., LN have corresponding upstream portions
CIU, C2 U, which are electrically coupled (in parallel one with respect to the other) with the
photovoltaic panels 200, and corresponding downstream portions                         CID, C2D,   which are electrically
coupled (in parallel one with respect to the other) with the conversion stage 4 of the inverter 1.
As it will better emerge from the following, the upstream portions Ciu, C2 u and the downstream
portions CID,            C2D     of the conductors C 1, C2 of each electric line L1 , ..., LN are arranged in such a way
to ensure the electrical continuity between the photovoltaic panels 300 and the conversion stage 4 of
the inverter 1.
According to the invention, a choke filter 10 is operatively associated with the conductors C1 , C2 of
the electric lines Li, ..., LN
As it will better emerge from the following, the choke filter 10 is operatively associated with the
conductors C1 or C2 of the electric lines L1 , ..., LN, which have a same voltage polarity (e.g. positive
or negative).
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                                    5
According to preferred embodiments of the invention (as shown in the cited figures), the choke
filter 10 is included in the inverter 1.
However, according to alternative embodiments of the invention (not shown), the choke filter 10
may be arranged externally to the inverter 1 and be operatively associated to a portion of the DC
electric bus 3 external to the outer case of the inverter.
The choke filter 10 comprises a single magnetic circuit 2 and a plurality of choke windings W1,
WN     (N > 1) enchained with said magnetic circuit.
In this way, the choke windings W 1,                      ... , WN are magnetically coupled one to another and the
magnetic fluxes generated by AC currents flowing along said choke windings magnetically interact
one with another.
Preferably, the choke filter 10 comprises a magnetic core (e.g. formed by one or more shaped pieces
of magnetic material) that forms the single magnetic circuit 2. In this case, the choke windings W 1,
... , WN     are advantageously wound around said magnetic core.
As an alternative, the choke filter 10 comprises a non-magnetic core (e.g. formed by one or more
shaped pieces of non-magnetic material) that forms the single magnetic circuit 2. In this case, the
choke windings W1, ..., WN are advantageously wound around said non-magnetic core.
As a further alternative, the single magnetic circuit 2 may be formed by a magnetic flux path fully
realized in air. In this case, the choke windings W1,                  ... , WN  are advantageously are arranged so as to
be enchained with said magnetic path.
The choke filter 10 comprises a choke winding W1,                     ... ,  WN for each electric line L 1, ..., LN
The choke windings W 1,                    ... , WN of the choke filter 10 are electrically connected in series with
corresponding line conductors C 1, C2 of the electric lines L 1, ..., LN, which have a same voltage
polarity.
In other words, each choke winding W1, ..., WN is electrically connected in series with a line
conductor C1 (figure 4) or with a line conductor C2 (figures 2-3, 5) of a corresponding electric line
L1,..., LN
The choke filter 10 is thus electrically coupled with the line conductors C 1 having a positive voltage
polarity or with the line conductors C2 having a negative voltage polarity and will therefore have N
(N >1) choke windings W 1, ..., WN, namely a choke winding for each electric line as stated above.
Conveniently, the choke windings W 1, ..., WN have first terminals W 11 , ..., WN1 and second
terminals W 12 ,            ... , WN2, preferably arranged at their opposite ends.
If the choke winding W 1, ..., WN are electrically connected in series with the corresponding line
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                              6
conductors C1 with a positive voltage polarity, the first terminals W11 ,                 ... , WNi are electrically
coupled with the upstream portions C1u of the line conductors C1 whereas the second terminals W12 ,
... , WN2     are electrically coupled with a corresponding first common electric node A, which is in turn
electrically coupled with the downstream portions CiD of the line conductors C1 (figure 4).
The downstream portions CiD of the line conductors C1 are electrically connected (in parallel one
with respect to another) with the common electric node A and the conversion stage 4 (or another
intermediate stage). They may thus be physically formed, at least partially, by a common line
conductor electrically connected with the common electric node A and the conversion stage 4 (or
another intermediate stage).
As to the upstream portions C2u and the downstream portions                 C2D  of the line conductors C2 with a
negative voltage polarity, they are electrically connected in series to ensure the electrical continuity
of the line conductors C2 .
If the choke winding W 1,          ... , WN  are electrically connected in series with the corresponding line
conductors C2 with a negative voltage polarity, the first terminals W11, ..., WNi are electrically
coupled with the upstream portions C2 Uof the line conductors C2 whereas the second terminals W 12 ,
... , WN2     are electrically coupled with a corresponding second common electric node B, which is in
turn electrically coupled with the downstream portions                C2D of the line conductors C2 (figures 2-3,
5).
The downstream portions           C2D    of the line conductors C2 are electrically connected (in parallel one
with respect to another) between common electric node B and the conversion stage 4 (or another
intermediate stage). They may be physically formed, at least partially, by a common line conductor
electrically connected with the common electric node B and the conversion stage 4 (or another
intermediate stage).
As to the upstream portions Ciu and the downstream portions                 CiD  of the line conductors C1 with a
positive voltage polarity, they are electrically connected in series to ensure the electrical continuity
of the line conductors C1 .
The choke windings W 1, ..., WN of the choke filter 10 are conveniently arranged (i.e. electrically
connected in series with the line conductors C1 or C2 and wound around the single magnetic circuit
2 of the choke filter 10) in such a way that possible AC electric currents flowing along said choke
windings generate magnetic fluxes having concordant directions.
In other words, the choke windings W 1,              ... , WN  are arranged in such a way to have a same sign
correlation between the direction of the AC currents flowing along them and their winding
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                                   7
direction.
As an example, the choke windings W 1, ..., WN may be arranged so that the AC currents flowing
along said choke windings have concordant directions and the winding directions of said choke
windings are concordant (figures 2, 4, 5).
As a further example, the choke windings W 1,                 ... , WN may arranged so that the AC currents flowing
along said choke windings have opposite directions and the winding directions of said choke
windings are opposite (figure 3).
Thanks to the original configuration described above, which provides for carrying out filtering only
at the supply conductors or at the return conductors of the electric lines L 1, ..., LN, the choke filter
10 allows effectively filtering possible differential-mode AC currents flowing along said electric
lines with a smaller number of choke windings W1, ..., WN with respect to the traditional solutions
of the state of the art.
The choke filter 10 thus provides relevant advantages in terms of size reduction and integration
capabilities.
In a practical implementation of the invention, the choke filter 10 and at least a portion of the DC
electric bus 3 may be advantageously realized on a PCB support, e.g. on a control board of the
inverter 1.
This solution greatly facilitates the structural integration of the choke filter 10 and of the DC
electric bus 3 with components or parts of the inverter 1 without a substantial increase of the
occupied volumes.
In figures 2-5, exemplary embodiments of the invention are shown, in which the DC electric bus 2
comprises N electric lines L 1, ..., LN (N                1).
In these cases, the choke filter 10 comprises a single magnetic circuit 2 with N (N > 1) enchained
choke windings W 1, ..., WN.
In the embodiment of figure 2, the choke windings W 1 ,                  ... , WN are electrically connected in series
with corresponding line conductors C2 with a negative voltage polarity.
The choke windings W 1,                 ... , WN    have first terminals W 11,    ... , WN1 electrically coupled with
corresponding upstream portions C2 U of the line conductors C2 with a negative voltage polarity and
second terminals W 12 ,          ... , WN2    electrically coupled with a corresponding common electric node B,
which is electrically connected in series with downstream portions C2D of the line conductors C2
with a negative voltage polarity.
The upstream portions Ciu and the downstream portions CiD of the line conductors C1 with a
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                                   8
positive voltage polarity are electrically connected in series.
The choke windings W 1,                ... , WN    are arranged so that the AC currents flowing along them have
concordant directions and the winding directions of said choke windings are concordant.
The embodiment of figure 3 is quite similar to the embodiment of figure 2.
However, in this case, the choke windings W 1, ..., WN are arranged so that the AC currents flowing
along them have opposite directions and the winding directions of these choke windings are
opposite.
In the embodiment of figure 4, the choke windings W1,                     ... , WN of   the choke filter 10 are electrically
connected in series with corresponding line conductors C1 with a positive voltage polarity.
The choke windings W 1,                   ... , WN    have first terminals W 11,     ... , WN1     electrically coupled with
corresponding upstream portions Ci u of the line conductors C1 with a positive voltage polarity and
second terminals W12,            ... , WN2      electrically coupled with a corresponding common electric node A,
which is electrically coupled with downstream portions                          CiD  of the line conductors C1 with a
positive voltage polarity.
The upstream portions C2u and the downstream portions                            C2D   of the line conductors C2 with a
negative voltage polarity are electrically connected in series.
The choke windings W 1,                ... , WN    are arranged so that the AC currents flowing along them have
concordant directions and the winding directions of said choke windings are concordant.
The embodiment of figure 5 is quite similar to the embodiment of figure 2.
The choke windings W 1,                ... , WN    are arranged so that the AC currents flowing along them have
concordant directions and the winding directions of said choke windings are concordant. However,
in this case, the AC currents flowing along the choke windings W1,                         ... , WN have opposite directions
with respect to the embodiment of figure 2 and the winding direction of said choke windings are
opposite with respect to the embodiment of figure 2.
According to an aspect of the invention, a first passive filter 5 is preferably electrically coupled with
the upstream portions CIu, C2u of the line conductors C1 , C2 of the electric lines L1, ..., LN
According to a further aspect of the invention, a second passive filter 6 is preferably electrically
coupled with the downstream portions CiD, C2D Of the line conductors C1 , C2 of the electric lines L 1,
... , LN
According to preferred embodiments of the invention (as shown in figure 5), both the passive filters
5, 6 are included in the inverter 1.
However, according to alternative embodiments of the invention (not shown), the passive filters 5, 6
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                            9
may be arranged externally to the inverter 1 and be operatively associated to a portion of the DC
electric bus 3, which is external to the outer case of the inverter.
The passive filters 5, 6 may be of known type and will not be described in further details for the
sake of brevity.
In a practical implementation of the invention, even the passive filters 5, 6 may be advantageously
realized on a PCB support (e.g. a control board of the inverter 1) together with the choke filter 10
and at least a portion of the DC electric bus 3.
In figures 6-8, further exemplary embodiments of the invention are shown, in which the DC electric
bus 2 comprises two electric lines L 1, L2 (N = 2).
In these cases, the choke filter 10 comprises a single magnetic circuit 2 with two enchained choke
windings WI, W 2 (N = 2).
In the embodiment of figure 6 (similar to the embodiment of figure 5), the choke windings W 1, W2
of the choke filter 10 are electrically connected in series with corresponding line conductors C2 with
a negative voltage polarity.
The choke windings W1, W 2 have first terminals W1 1 , W 2 1 electrically coupled with corresponding
upstream portions C2U of the line conductors C2 with a negative voltage polarity and second
terminals W 12 , W22 electrically coupled with a corresponding common electric node B, which is
electrically coupled with downstream portions C2D of the line conductors C2 with a negative voltage
polarity.
The upstream portions Ciu and the downstream portions CiD of the line conductors C1 with a
positive voltage polarity are electrically connected in series.
The choke windings W 1, W2 are arranged so that the AC currents flowing along them have
concordant directions and the winding directions of said choke windings are concordant.
Passive filters 5, 6 are operative coupled with the upstream and downstream portions CiU, C2 U,CiD,
C2D of the         line conductors C1, C2 of the electric lines L 1, L2 .
In the embodiment of figure 7 (similar to the embodiment of figure 4), the choke windings W 1, W2
of the choke filter 10 are electrically connected in series with corresponding line conductors C1 with
a positive voltage polarity.
The choke windings W1, W 2 have first terminals W1 1 , W 2 1 electrically coupled with corresponding
upstream portions Ciu of the line conductors C1 with a positive voltage polarity and second
terminals W 12 , W22 electrically coupled with a corresponding common electric node A, which is
electrically connected in series with downstream portions CiD of the line conductors C1 with a
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                            10
positive voltage polarity.
The upstream portions C2u and the downstream portions                     C2D of the line conductors C2 with a
negative voltage polarity are electrically connected in series.
The choke windings W 1, W 2 are arranged so that the AC currents flowing along them have
concordant directions and the winding directions of said choke windings are concordant.
In the embodiment of figure 8, the choke windings W1, W 2 of the choke filter 10 are electrically
connected in series with corresponding line conductors C2 with a negative voltage polarity.
The choke windings W 1, W 2 have first terminals W1 1 , W 2 1 electrically coupled with corresponding
upstream portions C2 U of the line conductors C2 with a negative voltage polarity and second
terminals W 12 , W 2 2 electrically coupled with a corresponding common electric node B, which is
electrically coupled with downstream portions             C2D  of the line conductors C2 with a negative voltage
polarity.
The upstream portions Ciu and the downstream portions                     CiD of the line conductors C1 with a
positive voltage polarity are electrically connected in series.
The choke windings W 1, W 2 are arranged so that the AC currents flowing along them have
concordant directions and the winding directions of said choke windings are concordant. However,
in this case, the AC currents flowing along the choke windings W1, W 2 have opposite directions
with respect to the embodiment of figure 6 and the winding directions of said choke windings are
opposite with respect to the embodiment of figure 6.
The present invention allows achieving the intended aims and objects.
The choke filter 10 allows cancelling or remarkably reducing the disturbances, which are induced
by the differential mode AC currents flowing along the conductors C 1, C2 of the electric lines W1,
W2, ... , WN          of the DC current bus 3.
The choke filter 10 allows obtaining high levels of reliability in the operation of the inverter 1 and
in the detection of possible arc faults, consequent high levels of immunity to false tripping.
Differently from known solutions of the state of the art, the choke filter 10 has a relatively small
number of a choke windings W 1, W 2 ,          ... , WN and a single magnetic circuit.
The choke filter 10 has thus a very compact structure, which can be easily manufactured at
industrial level on a PCB support with highly automated operations and that can therefore be fully
integrated with other parts or components of the inverter 1.
The choke filter 10 therefore provides relevant advantages in terms of size and cost reduction with
respect to known solutions of the state of the art.
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                    11
In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise"
or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the
presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
various embodiments of the invention.
It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference does not
constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general knowledge in the
art, in Australia or any other country.
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                          12
                             THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS
1.         An inverter (1) for a photovoltaic apparatus (100), said inverter comprising a DC electric bus
           (3) having a plurality of electric lines (Li, L2 , LN) forming corresponding DC input channels for
           said inverter, each electric line comprising line conductors (C1 , C2) having opposite voltage
           polarities, characterized in that it comprises a choke filter (10) comprising a single magnetic
           circuit (2) and a plurality of choke windings (W 1 , W 2 ,     WN)    enchained with said magnetic
           circuit, said choke windings (W 1 , W 2 ,      WN)    being electrically connected in series with
           corresponding line conductors (CI, C2 ) of said electric lines (Li, L2 , LN), which have a same
           voltage polarity, said choke windings having first terminals (W 1 1, W 2 1, WNi) electrically
           coupled with upstream portions (CIu, C2 U) of said corresponding line conductors (C1 , C2) and
           second terminals (W12 , W 2 2 , WN2) electrically coupled with a corresponding common electric
           node (A, B) electrically coupled with downstream portions          (CiD, C2D)  of said corresponding
           line conductors (C 1 , C), said choke windings (W 1 , W 2 , WN) being arranged so that AC electric
           currents flowing along said choke windings generate magnetic fluxes having concordant
           directions.
2.         An inverter, according to claim 1, characterised in that said choke windings (Wi, W 2 , WN) are
           wound around a same magnetic core of said choke filter.
3.         An inverter, according to one or more of the previous claims, characterised in that each electric
           line (Li, L 2 , LN) has a line conductor (Ci) with a positive voltage polarity and a line conductor
           (C 2 ) with a negative voltage polarity, said choke windings (Wi, W 2 ,       WN)   being electrically
           coupled with corresponding line conductors (C 2 ) with a negative voltage polarity, said choke
           windings having first terminals (W 1 1, W 2 1, WN1) electrically coupled with upstream portions
           (C 2 U) of said corresponding line conductors (C2 ) with a negative voltage polarity and second
           terminals (W12 , W 2 2 , WN2) electrically coupled with a corresponding common electric node (B),
           which is electrically coupled with downstream portions           (C2D)   of said corresponding line
           conductors (C 2 ) with a negative voltage polarity.
4.         An inverter, according to one or more of the claims from 1 to 2, characterised that each electric
           line (Li, L 2 , LN) has a line conductor (C1) with a positive voltage polarity and a line conductor
           (C 2 ) with a negative voltage polarity, said choke windings (W 1 , W 2 ,     WN)   being electrically
           coupled with corresponding line conductors (C 1) with a positive voltage polarity, said choke
           windings having first terminals (W11 , W 2 1, WNI) electrically coupled with upstream portions
           (Ciu) of said corresponding line conductors (C1 ) with a positive voltage polarity and second
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                                               13
           terminals (W1 2 , W 22 , WN2) electrically coupled with a corresponding common electric node (A),
           which is electrically coupled with downstream portions                 (CiD)  of said corresponding line
           conductors (C1 ) with a positive voltage polarity.
5.         An inverter, according to one or more of the previous claims, characterised in that it comprises
           a first passive filter (5) electrically coupled with the upstream portions (Ciu, C2 u) of the line
           conductors (C 1, C2) of said electric lines (Li, L 2 , LN)
6.         An inverter, according to one or more of the previous claims, characterised in that it comprises
           a second passive filter (6) electrically coupled with the downstream portions            (CiD, C2D) of the
           line conductors (C1, C2) of said electric lines (Li, L2 , LN)
7.         An inverter, according to one or more of the previous claims, characterised in that said electric
           lines (Li, L2 ,        LN)  form interleaved DC input channels operatively coupled with said input port
           (4).
8.         A photovoltaic apparatus (100) characterised in that it comprises an inverter (1) according to
           one or more of the previous claims.
9.         A choke filter (10) for a DC electric bus (3) of a photovoltaic apparatus (100), said DC electric
           bus having a plurality of electric lines (Li, L2 ,        LN)  forming corresponding DC input channels
           for an inverter (1) of said photovoltaic apparatus, each electric line comprising line conductors
           (C 1 , C2 ) having opposite voltage polarities, characterized in that it comprises a single magnetic
           circuit (2) and a plurality of choke windings (W 1 , W 2 , WN) enchained with said magnetic
           circuit, said choke windings being electrically connectable in series with corresponding line
           conductors (C1 , C2 ) of said electric lines (Li, L2 , LN), which have a same voltage polarity, said
           choke windings having first terminals (Wii, W2 1 , WNi) electrically coupleable with upstream
           portions (Ciu, C2 u) of said corresponding line conductors (C1 , C2 ) and second terminals (W 12 ,
           W22, WN2)           electrically coupled with a corresponding common electric node (A, B) electrically
           coupleable with downstream portions (CiD,            C2D)  of said corresponding line conductors (CI, C2 ),
           said choke windings (W1, W 2 , WN) being arranged so that electric currents flowing along said
           choke windings generate magnetic fluxes having concordant directions.
10.        A photovoltaic apparatus (100) characterised in that it comprises a choke filter (10), according
           to claim 9.
9665398_1 (GHMatters) P107270.AU

                                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
          100
      3         41            7
                         dc
                                                                 1/8
           10                 42
200                                          300
                     4
                                  1
          FIG. 1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
