                                           ABSTRACT
A stoma extender includes a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into
the stoma extender before the effluent exits the stoma; a second end for remaining external of the
stoma, for providing a discharge exit for stomal effluent; and a conduit portion coupled between
the first and second ends for communicating stomal effluent through the stoma extender, wherein
the length of the conduit portion is adjustable stably, to permit adaptation of the stoma extender
to an individual's stoma.
Figure 19

                    9/11
                    0
                 .o   o
                 o*   a
                  0
       45        o       0
          453
                                     40
                         **0
                        o* o
    44                   Oi
                         0 0
                           O   0
      42                     0
                             . 00
                               o0       49
                              o .'o
                                  o0
               FIG. 19
45
                                           44
 47
              FIG. 20

             OSTOMY APPLIANCES FOR DIRECTING EFFLUENT OUTPUT
         The present invention is a divisional application from Australian patent application
number 2015246069, which in turn is a divisional application from Australian patent
application number 2009259925, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by
reference.
         The present invention relates to the field of ostomy appliances for fitting and sealing
within and around an ostomate's stoma to direct effluent output. Other aspects of the invention
relate to the ability to adjust to the varying distance between the fascia and the skin and the
ability to "self-inflate" via fluidic actuation. The term ostomyy" is intended to cover at least
colostomy, ileostomy and urostomy.
                              BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
         Effectively directing or otherwise controlling effluent output is central to ostomy
devices designed to protect skin adjacent to the discharge area.         Creating a seal around a
person's stoma, such that the seal is dependable, comfortable and conducive to body tissue, is
important for the function of ostomy appliances. Once this seal has been made, the appliance
may use one or more of a variety of techniques for managing stomal discharge. The formation
of such a seal remains an area of continuous improvement and development, since the
performance and comfort of the seal is fundamental to customer acceptance. The protection of
the external peristomal tissue where the normal skin and stoma tissue meet is an essential
characteristic of such an ostomy device.           Peristomal tissue can be extremely sensitive.
Irritation can result if the peristomal tissue is exposed to body waste, or to repeated application
and removal of adhesive or other sealants.
         Ideally, the stoma should protrude from the abdominal surface of the ostomate by a
distance ranging from 0.5cm to 2.5cm. This protrusion forms a spout, from which effluent can
discharge directly into the pouch. However, in many cases, the stoma protrudes by a lesser
amount or not at all. For example, a "flush stoma" is a condition when the stoma reaches only
as far as the surface of the abdomen; a "recessed stoma" is a condition when the stoma does not
even reach the surface of the abdomen, and the peristomal skin is drawn into a funnel shaped
mouth between the stoma and the abdominal surface. There are many potential causes for these
conditions. These can include improper formation of the stoma by the surgeon; and post
                                                   1

operative weight gain by the ostomate.         Post-operative weight gain causes the ostomate's
abdominal region to expand in girth while the length of the intestine attached to the abdomen
remains fixed, thereby resulting in the stoma being pulled toward and ultimately below the
surface of the abdomen.
        Flush and recessed stomas can be difficult to manage, because some effluent discharged
from the stoma can tend to pool around the stoma, instead of the effluent discharging completely
into the pouch. Stool retained in this manner can attack the interface between the adhesive body
fitment and the ostomate's peristomal skin. Such attack reduces the adhesion of the body fitment
to the skin, thereby reducing the effectiveness and the usable life of the appliance. The stool can
also cause irritation and degradation of the peristomal skin itself. Stool exiting the stoma may
contain digestive juices from the body, and such juices can attack the peristomal skin resulting in
excoriation.   It is hitherto not known for a single device to accommodate varying distances
between the stoma and skin level.
        Some known devices use a single expandable balloon or member inside the stoma to
form a seal against the inside wall of the opening, and a fixed stop or surface against the outside
of the body. However, such devices have to be designed carefully to avoid the risk of damage to
the sensitive internal tissue. In such designs, a relatively high concentration of force may be
placed on the tissue underneath the stoma, effecting blood circulation in the area under pressure,
thereby over time leading to tissue necrosis.
        By way of example, U.S. Publication No. 2003/0220621 describes a valved ostomy
device including a hollow discharge tube and anchoring means for anchoring the tube in the
stoma. The anchoring means comprises an inflatable balloon cuff inserted in the stoma to anchor
the tube against the stomal wall, and a screw threaded clamp as an outer stop surface. Although
the screw threaded clamp has a conformable pad, the anchoring means bears the entire weight of
the ostomy appliance and any collection device attached to it.            Thus, the strength of the
attachment has to be offset against limitations on the clamping force which can be applied
through the peristomal tissue without causing discomfort and tissue damage, and the inflation
pressure of the balloon cuff without causing internal tissue damage to the stoma lumen.
Additionally, the device has very little or no range of adjustment to the varying distance between
the underside of the fascia and the skin, limiting the use to individuals whose fascia-skin distance
is within the range of the device. Also, the means of inflating the device requires a secondary
                                                  2

mechanism such as a syringe or pump to inflate it.         To have the user carry around an extra
component is inconvenient, and the inflation mechanism may not have a means to control the
amount of fluid to be pumped into the device, which brings associated risks of under or over
inflation of the device.
        EP 0168967, EP 1346711 and U.S. Patent No. 4,950,223 describe ostomy ports
comprising a single inflatable balloon inserted into the stoma, and an external adhesive wafer for
securing the appliance to the skin around the stoma. Such designs are concerned primarily with
the formation of a seal inside the stoma lumen. The peristomal tissue is either unprotected or is
protected by the adhesive wafer, leaving the possibility that the peristomal tissue may be
vulnerable to the conventional problem of irritation and pain resulting from exposure to stool or
repeated applications and removals of adhesive. As in the previous referenced device, there are
also no significant accommodations for the variation in fascia-skin distance or the fact that a
secondary component is required for inflation.
        A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as prior art is not
to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was known or that the information it
contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the claims.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention is generally directed to a stoma extender having a first end for
insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma extender before the effluent
exits the stoma, a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit
for stomal effluent, and a tubular portion or conduit portion coupled between the first and second
ends for communicating stomal effluent through the stoma extender.
        According to an embodiment of the invention, there is provided a stoma extender
comprising:
        a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma extender
before the effluent exits the stoma;
        a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit for
stomal effluent; and
        a conduit portion coupled between the first and second ends for communicating stomal
effluent through the stoma extender,
                                                   3

        wherein the first end comprises a seal defined by a plurality of bendable fingers
extending from a support collar, and elastic webbing comprising an elastic sleeve covering the
fingers, wherein the elastic sleeve is attached to an external O-ring, and wherein the fingers,
support collar and webbing define a resiliently collapsible funnel-shape.
        According to another embodiment of the invention, there is provided a stoma extender
comprising:
        a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma extender
before the effluent exits the stoma;
        a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit for
stomal effluent; and
        a conduit portion extending between the first and second ends for communicating stomal
effluent through the stoma extender;
        wherein at least the first end comprises:
        a tubular support member; and
        a first sleeve extending around at least a portion of the tubular support member, the first
sleeve comprising a foam material that expands in response to contact with moisture, whereby
when the first end is inserted into a stoma in use, moisture from stomal effluent causes the first
sleeve to expand for forming a seal between the first end and the intestinal wall.
        According to another embodiment of the invention, there is provided a stoma extender
comprising:
        a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma extender
before the effluent exits the stoma;
        a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit for
stomal effluent; and
        a conduit portion coupled between the first and second ends for communicating stomal
effluent through the stoma extender,
        wherein the first end and at least a portion of the conduit portion have a collapsed form
prior to first use, the collapsed form being retained by a water-soluble and/or water-dispersible
glue or coating on said collapsed form, whereby in use, once the first end has been inserted into a
stoma, the collapsed form is released by contact with moisture from stomal effluent and wherein
said glue or coating is of gelatin.
                                                   4

        According to another embodiment of the invention, there is provided a stoma extender
comprising:
        a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma extender
before the effluent exits the stoma;
        a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit for
stomal effluent;
        a conduit portion coupled between the first and second ends for communicating stomal
effluent through the stoma extender; wherein the conduit portion is elastic and has a tapered
shape from the second end to the first end, so as to function as an adjustment to various fascia to
skin distances;
        an inflatable seal at the first end for sealing against the intestinal wall behind a stoma;
        an inflation fluid reservoir for storing inflation fluid prior to delivery to the inflatable
seal, the inflation fluid reservoir having a storage capacity sufficient to inflate the inflatable seal
to an operative inflated state in use; and
        an inflation conduit for delivering inflation fluid from the reservoir to the inflatable seal.
        According to another embodiment of the invention, there is provided a stoma extender
comprising:
        a tubular member of generally self-supporting shape, the tubular member having a first
end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the tubular member before the
effluent exits the stoma, and a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a
discharge exit for stomal effluent passing through the tubular member;
        a collar slidable along at least a portion of the tubular member from the second end; and
        a selective engagement device for providing selective engagement between the collar and
the tubular member, the selective engagement device being at least one selected from:
        (a)      a directionally selective engagement device comprising angled, bendable
protrusions with ends extending radially inward and contacting the tubular member so that
movement in a direction away from the second end is facilitated, and which produces
engagement between the collar and the tubular portion to resist movement of the collar in an
opposite direction towards the second end, and/or
                                                     5

         (b)     a manually selective engagement device responsive to manual operation between
an engaged condition for retaining the collar at a position on the tubular member, and a non
engaged condition that permits sliding movement of the collar on the tubular member.
         Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word "comprise" and
variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not intended to exclude other
additives, components, integers or steps.
         Optional aspects of the invention include (i) the length of the conduit portion being
adjustable stably to enable the stoma extender to be adapted to an individual's stoma; (ii) a seal
for the first end, the seal including a plurality of resilient fingers and elastic webbing extending
at least between portions of the fingers; (iii) a seal for the first end, the seal comprising a material
configured to expand when contacted by moisture; (iv) a collapsed configuration of the first end
and, optionally, a portion of the tubular member or conduit portion, the collapsed configuration
being retained by a water-soluble and/or water-dispersible glue or coating, such as gelatin; (v) an
inflation fluid reservoir integrated in the stoma extender for inflating a seal at the first end,
thereby avoiding the user having to carry additional inflation equipment; and/or (vi) a collar
slidable on the tubular member and retained selectively by a selective engagement device. The
selective engagement device may be manually operable, or it may be directionally responsive.
         These ideas may be used independently, or any two or more of the above ideas may be
used in combination.      The invention explicitly envisages all such possible combinations and
permutations.
         There are several embodiments of the invention. These illustrate the above and other
aspects of:    a means of sealing against the intestinal wall; an ability to adjust to the varying
fascia-skin distances and provide an elastic range to accommodate movement; a means of
insertion and removal from the stoma; and a feature of "self-inflation" by means of internally
containing the fluidic pressure to actuate and/or deploy the device.            Each embodiment may
incorporate one or more of these aspects.
         Additional features usable in combination with this invention are described in co-pending
applications U.S. Application Nos. 60/891120 and 60/891127, the contents of which are hereby
incorporated by reference.
         Other aspects of the present invention, and additional features usable in combination with
the foregoing, include:
                                                    6

        (a)     The seal may comprise an inflatable chamber portion for sealing against the
internal wall of the stoma.     The inflatable chamber is toroidal in shape and is sealed to or
continuous with a tubular straight, tapered or "trumpet-shape" central channel constructed of a
thin elastic material.
        (b)     The seal may comprise a first inflatable chamber portion for sealing against the
internal wall of the stoma, and a second inflatable chamber portion for sealing externally of the
stoma.
        (c)     The seal may be positioned in the aperture of an adhesive member. The seal may
include an inflatable chamber portion and a support. The support may provide a backbone for
the inflatable chamber portion. The inflatable chamber portion may allow the support to float
somewhat with respect to the adhesive member.
        (d)     The seal may include an inflatable chamber portion that is located in the aperture
of an adhesive member, and is configured to seal externally of the stoma, without substantially
occluding the stoma. A tubular member or passage may optionally extend through the external
inflatable chamber portion for discharge of body waste.         The inflatable seal may allow the
discharge of body waste without removal of the inflatable seal from the stoma.
        (e)     The seal comprising the internal portion for sealing against the internal wall of the
stoma may be constructed of a non-inflatable toroidal member, i.e., an O-ring. This member is
attached and/or bonded to or is of a continuously formed shape with a generally tubular elastic
member that extends through the stoma opening creating a passageway out of the body.
        (f)     The seal comprising the internal portion for sealing against the internal wall of the
stoma may be constructed, in the deployed state, of a non-inflatable funnel-shaped member
possessing finger-like protrusions, roughly like the supporting members of an umbrella, but in
the opposite direction of deployment. These protrusions are continuous with a ringed feature at
their base that provides a support to maintain a central opening, in particular, if there is a radial
force to effect closing of the fingers.     This funnel-shaped member is constructed of flexible
and/or elastic material such that it is rigid enough to maintain shape but flexible and soft enough
to easily close the fingers to affect a somewhat cylindrical shape. The end of the fingers curve
inward with a radius so as to prevent the concentration of force at the finger ends when
contacting the intestinal wall. Over this funnel-shaped member is attached/bonded or otherwise
constructed continually a thin highly elastic covering, so as to create webbing between the
                                                   7

fingers and a sealed central tubular passageway from the end of the supporting ringed feature.
The central tubular passageway extends through the stoma opening and out of the body. The
central tubular passageway may be of a tubular straight, tapered or "trumpet" shape. Another
embodiment may have the supporting ringed feature extend through the stoma and out of the
body. A tubular shaped insertion tool may be used to engage the curved ends of the fingers in
the closed state. Once the distal end of the device in place inside the stoma the tool is removed
and the shape memory of the funnel-shaped member deploys the device. It may be that the
highly elastic covering is an over-molding where the fingers, formed originally in a pre-loaded
state, are held in tension during the over-molding process so that when the completed device is
deployed the highly elastic covering retains a stretched condition to maintain the seal to the
intestinal wall.
         (g)     The seal comprising the internally inflated chamber portion may be constructed of
a single chamber or dual interconnecting chambers attached and/or bonded to, or constructed of
one formed shape, with a tubular, more firm or rigid central member. The proximal end of this
assembly or component may be attached to another more elastic tubular member, or the central
member itself continues outside the body, so as to provide a passageway through the device.
With embodiments having the other more elastic tubular member, the shape may be tubular
straight, tapered or "trumpet-like".    The assembly/component comprising the single or dual
chambers, and the more firm central tubular member, are to be inserted fully behind the fascia
and inflated, while the proximal end of the central member or the more elastic straight, tapered or
"trumpet" shaped tubular member remains external to the stoma. This assembly configuration
may allow for easy insertion into the stoma opening without the need for an insertion device.
         (h)     The member comprising the seal external to the stoma may be constructed of a
thicker toroidal-shaped elastic material or O-ring such that when the internal member is deployed
within the stoma the external member may be manually "rolled up" by the user, utilizing the
circumferential detent of the toroidal shape and the elastic rebound of the interconnecting tubular
member or passage, so as to accommodate the varying fascia-skin distance. The interconnecting
tubular member may comprise the range of characteristics from thin and highly elastic to being
constructed of more rigid material, and may be of a tubular tapered or "trumpet" shape.
         (i)     The member comprising the seal external to the stoma may not only be
constructed of a thicker toroidal-shaped elastic material or O-ring for a manual circumferential
                                                  8

detent adjustment to the fascia-skin distance, but may also contain a pressurized chamber, i.e., an
inflatable O-ring. This chamber is to be pressurized with fluid at manufacture or at some time
previous to use, such that the pressure contained, when released, can be utilized to transfer, via
elastic action, the fluidic component through interconnecting passageways into the internal
chamber so the internal chamber may be deployed while within the body, thereby eliminating the
need of a secondary component for inflating the device. An orifice or other fluid restriction, or
valve may be used at the entrance, exit or along the interconnecting passageways to delay device
deployment to allow the user sufficient time for device insertion. The internal chamber may be
constrained, e.g., folded, rolled and/or twisted, into a thin, long shape to ease insertion into the
stoma prior to device deployment without the need for an insertion tool. Gelatine or other coating
on the constrained internal chamber may facilitate insertion by maintaining the constraint until
the gelatine contacts or is within the moist interior of the stoma. The addition of a cap over the
internal chamber may also aid in maintaining the chamber in a constrained condition before use.
        (j)      The member external to the stoma may not comprise an external seal but may
only rest or attach and have "vents" allowing fluid escape in the event the internal seal to the
intestine is compromised. The effluent venting may prevent occlusion of the stoma opening in
the event of seal failure. The effluent venting may also be an indicator that the device is in need
of replacement.
        (k)      The member external to the stoma, with embodiments that have amore firm
central tubular member, may be comprised of a more rigid material, effectively a collar, and may
possesses features along the contacting surface with the central member such that the collar may
be manually placed over and easily slid down the central member but will meet more resistance
moving up the central member. This may be accomplished via angled, bendable protrusions with
sharp ends extending radially inward and contacting the central member so that movement in one
direction (downward or distally) is facilitated but opposite movement (upward or proximally) is
restrained. The restrained movement in the proximal direction of the collar may not be full but
measured so as to prevent tissue damage in the event of excessive or unexpected body
movement. Another embodiment may involve a locking feature within the collar whereas once
the collar is in place over the central tubular member a second component of the collar interacts
to squeeze the central tubular member sufficiently so as to hold the collar in its position on the
member.
                                                  9

         (1)     Successfully packaging the device embodiments possessing the pressurized
external chamber or inflatable O-ring (ref. 'i'      above) may be accomplished by utilizing a
container pressurized with the same fluid and to the same pressure as the device in the non
deployed state. This may alleviate the problem of the device depressurizing over time due to the
permeability of the device materials. The package container may be constructed of barrier films
or may be a hard polymer or an aluminum (e.g., like a soda can) or other container that will hold
the fluidic pressure over time until the contained device is needed.
         (m)     The seal comprising the internal portion for sealing against the internal wall of the
stoma may be constructed of a rigid tubular member with a semi-spherical bulge at the distal
end.    The proximal end of the tubular member comprises a generally flange-shaped feature
exterior to the body so as to be clear of the stoma and attach to an external wafer or component.
Through the bulge are a series of holes. Over the exterior of the tubular member is placed a
covering of expandable foam material, which may be generally thicker over the bulge at the
distal end. This foam material expands significantly in the presence of moisture.          When the
device is inserted the moisture and liquid effluent in the stoma pass through the holes in the
bulge and over the surface of the foam causing the foam to expand and create a seal against the
intestinal wall.
         As used herein, the term "inflatable" means a chamber portion that is configured to be
expanded by inflating the chamber with a positive inflation pressure (e.g., a pressure of inflation
fluid greater than the external pressure).
         Features and advantages of the invention may include: providing an ostomy seal that is
comfortable and effective without creating high concentrations of pressure internally or
externally, and which can produce a comfortable peristomal seal; the ability to adjust to the
varying fascia-skin distances and provide an elastic range to accommodate movement; the means
of insertion and removal from the stoma; and the feature of "self-inflation" by means of
internally containing the fluidic pressure to actuate and/or deploy the device.
         Although certain features have been highlighted above and in the appended claims, the
Applicant may seek claim protection for any inventive feature and/or idea described and/or
illustrated herein whether or not emphasis has been placed thereon.
                                                  10

                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Fig. 1 is a schematic perspective view of a first embodiment of the invention in an
"unrolled" condition possessing features described in "e" and "h" above.
        Fig. 2 is a schematic perspective view of a second embodiment of the invention in an
"unrolled" condition possessing features described in "e" and "h" above.
        Fig. 3 is a schematic sectional view showing the first embodiment of the invention in an
"unrolled" condition.
        Fig. 4 is a schematic perspective view of the first embodiment of the invention in an
"unrolled" condition illustrating the removal string of the device.
        Fig. 5 is a schematic sectional view showing a third embodiment of the invention in an
"unrolled" and deployed condition possessing features described in "f" and "h" above.
        Fig. 6 is a schematic sectional view showing a fourth embodiment of the invention
possessing features described in "m" above.
        Fig. 7a is a schematic perspective view showing a fifth embodiment of the invention in an
"unrolled" and inflated condition possessing features described in "g" and "h" above.
        Fig. 7b is complementary schematic perspective views to Fig. 7a showing a fifth
embodiment of the invention in an "unrolled" and inflated condition possessing features
described in "g" and "h" above.
        Fig. 8 is a schematic sectional view showing the fifth embodiment of the invention in an
"unrolled" and inflated condition.
        Fig. 9 is a schematic sectional view a sixth embodiment of the invention in an inflated
condition possessing features described in "b" and "g" above.
        Fig. 10 is a schematic perspective view showing a seventh embodiment of the invention
in an inflated condition possessing features described in "g", "j" and "k" above.
        Fig. 11 is a schematic perspective view showing an eighth embodiment of the invention
in an inflated condition possessing features described in "g", j" and "k" above.
        Fig. 12a is a schematic perspective view showing an ninth embodiment of the invention
in an "unrolled" and inflated condition possessing features described in "a" and "h" above.
        Fig. 12b is a complementary schematic perspective view to Fig. 12a showing an ninth
embodiment of the invention in an "unrolled" and inflated condition possessing features
described in "a" and "h" above.
                                                 11

         Fig. 13 is a schematic sectional view showing the ninth embodiment of the invention in
an "unrolled" and inflated condition.
         Fig. 14a is a schematic perspective views showing a tenth embodiment of the invention in
an un-deployed condition possessing features described in "a" and "i" above (but cannot be
rolled).
         Fig. 14b is a complementary schematic perspective view to Fig. 14a showing a tenth
embodiment of the invention in an un-deployed condition possessing features described in "a"
and "i" above (but cannot be rolled).
         Fig. 15 is a schematic perspective view showing the tenth embodiment of the invention
having the constraining cap removed.
         Fig. 16 is a schematic perspective view showing the tenth embodiment of the invention
being inserted into the stoma through a two piece ostomy wafer.
         Fig. 17 is a schematic perspective view showing the tenth embodiment of the invention
inserted in the stoma through a two piece ostomy wafer but not yet deployed.
         Fig. 18 is a schematic sectional view showing the tenth embodiment of the invention
inserted in the stoma through a two piece ostomy wafer but not yet deployed.
         Fig. 19 is a schematic sectional view showing the tenth embodiment of the invention
inserted in the stoma through a two piece ostomy wafer and deployed.
         Fig. 20 is a schematic front perspective view showing the tenth embodiment of the
invention inserted in the stoma through a two piece ostomy wafer and deployed.
         Fig. 21 is a schematic perspective view showing an eleventh embodiment of the invention
in an "unrolled" and inflated condition possessing features described in "a" and "i" above (can
be rolled).
         Fig. 22 is a schematic sectional view showing the eleventh embodiment of the invention
in an "unrolled" and inflated condition.
         Fig. 23 is a schematic perspective view showing an example dip-molding tool for
creating the eleventh embodiment of the invention.
                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
         Referring to Figs. 1-4, depicting the first and second embodiments, in which an ostomy
appliance 10 may include a seal for sealing around a stoma. The seal may generally comprise an
                                                  12

O-ring or similar portion 11 for insertion into the stoma and sealing against the internal wall of
the stoma lumen, and a second O-ring or similar portion 12 for sealing and/or restraining against
external tissue (skin) or an adhesive component around the stoma. The two O-rings are attached
or continuous with a conduit portion or tubular member 13 so as to create a central channel 14
for stoma effluent to pass. The internal O-ring 11 is inserted into the stoma via an insertion tool
(not shown) and placed just beyond the abdominal wall (fascia). The external O-ring 12 is then
grasped and gently tugged outward to seat the internal O-ring 11 against the fascia. The second
external O-ring 12 is then manually "rolled" or twisted using the fingers to roll up the excess
length of the tubular member 13 so as to adjust to the specific distance between the fascia and
skin. The rolling action occurs in increments utilizing the natural circumferential detent of the
O-ring 12. Once sufficient length has been taken up the resistance of the circumferential detent
acts to maintain the position of the rolled up length. Additionally, the elastic rebound of the
tubular member 13 provides an elastic range to accommodate body movement when the ostomy
appliance 10 is wom. The addition of an adhesive on the skin or the adhesive component where
the O-ring 12 contacts the skin may aid in securing the ostomy appliance 10.           In the first
embodiment (Fig. 1, 3 and 4), the shape of the tubular member 13 is designed to exactly
accommodate the diameter reduction resulting from the accumulation of material during the roll
up adjustment, resulting in a slightly tapered shape to the tubular member 13 and a somewhat
large diameter reduction near the distal end. This will allow for a wide range of fascia-skin
adjustment and material elasticity.
        In the second embodiment (Fig. 2), the shape of the tubular member 13 is more "trumpet"
shaped. This design reduces bunching of the tubular member 13 material in the stoma but will
add a radial force to the external O-ring 12 when rolled so the fascia-skin adjustment range may
be reduced. This may be compensated for by increasing the external O-ring 12 rigidity and/or
decreasing the O-ring 12 diameter and/or increasing the elasticity of the tubular member 13
material. Refinement of this shape will depend on the applicable range of fascia-skin distance
for a given ostomy appliance 10 size. Once the ostomy appliance 10 is in place, stoma effluent
passes through the central channel 14 and out of the body. If a two piece ostomy pouch system
is used in conjunction with the ostomy appliance 10, the chance of effluent leakage should be
significantly reduced.
                                                 13

        To effect easy removal of the ostomy appliance 10 a removal string 15 is attached in a
specific way to the internal O-ring 11 (Fig. 4). The removal string 15, comprising of nylon, silk
or other suitable material, is driven through and attached to the O-ring 11 from the front (distal
side) and exits the back. The removal string 15 is then looped around and run through the central
channel 14 where it is suitably adhered to the skin or ostomy wafer above the opening of the
central channel 14 by way of an attached adhesive strip 16. When the user wishes to remove the
ostomy appliance 10 the removal string 15 is gently pulled. This twists the internal 0-ring 11 in
a manner that collapses the O-ring shape and allows the O-ring 11 to more easily pass through
the stoma opening and out of the body and discarded.
        In a third embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10, referring to Fig. 5, an ostomy
appliance 10 may include a seal for sealing around a stoma such that the seal comprising the
internal portion for sealing against the internal wall of the stoma lumen consists of a funnel
shaped member 18 possessing finger-like protrusions 17. These protrusions 17 are continuous
with a ringed feature 19 at their base that provides support to maintain the opening of the central
channel 14 through the funnel-shaped member 18.         The dimensions of the protrusions 17 in
conjunction with the flexible and/or elastic material properties of the funnel-shaped member 18
are designed so that the member 18 is rigid enough to maintain shape, but flexible and soft
enough to bend the protrusions 17 together to achieve a cylindrical shape for the member 18.
The ends 20 of the protrusions 17 curve inward with a radius so as to prevent the concentration
of force at the ends 20 when contacting the intestinal wall. Over the outside of the funnel-shaped
member 18 is formed a thin, continuous, highly elastic covering 21 so as to create a collapsible
and stretchable webbing between the protrusions 17 and a sealed central channel 14 from the end
of the ringed feature 19.    This elastic covering 21 is bonded to or otherwise attached to the
funnel-shaped member 18. It may be that the elastic covering 21 is an over-molding, where the
protrusions 17 are formed prior to the over-molding in a pre-loaded state, such that during the
over-molding process the protrusions 17 are held in tension so that when the completed ostomy
appliance 10 is deployed in situ, the webbing portion of the elastic covering 21 retains a
stretched condition to maintain the seal to the intestinal wall.   The elastic covering 21 which
forms the central channel 14 extends through the stoma opening and out of the body when the
ostomy appliance 10 is in place. The shape of the elastic covering 21, which forms the central
channel 14, is similar to the proximal portion of the tubular member 13 of the second
                                                 14

embodiment above (Fig. 2), where the shape of the elastic covering 21 is "trumpet-shaped" and
attached to an external O-ring 12, so as to function similarly as an adjustment to the various
fascia-skin distances.
        In another embodiment the shape of the elastic covering 21, which forms the central
channel 14 may also be of a tubular tapered shape attached to an external O-ring 12 as in the first
embodiment above (Figs. 1, 3 and 4).
         Still another embodiment may have the supporting ringed feature 19 extend in a tubular
straight shape through the stoma passageway and out of the body.
        The means of inserting the ostomy appliance 10 into the stoma may involve the use of a
tubular shaped insertion tool (not shown). The tool is placed through the central channel 14 from
the proximal end of the ostomy appliance 10, passes through the ringed feature 19, and the tool
end engages the curved ends of the protrusions 17 when they are bent together into a cylindrical
shape. The tool may be held in place by adhesive and/or engaging features at the tool end. The
protrusions 17 may also possess adhesive and/or engaging features. The tool may also be held in
place via a feature that maintains a fit with the ringed feature 19 and/or the proximal end of the
tool and ostomy appliance 10.        The insertion tool may be fixed in place at manufacture and
packaged to facilitate user insertion.
        The third embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10 is inserted into the stoma opening via
the insertion tool and the tool is then disengaged and removed, allowing the shape memory of the
funnel-shaped member 18 to deploy the ostomy appliance 10 and create a seal against the
intestinal wall. As with the first and second embodiments the external O-ring 12 is then grasped
and manually "rolled" or twisted using the fingers to roll up the excess length of the elastic
covering 21, which forms the central channel 14, so as to adjust to the specific distance between
the fascia and skin. The elastic rebound of the elastic covering 21, which forms the central
channel 14, also provides an elastic range to accommodate body movement when the ostomy
appliance 10 is worn. The addition of an adhesive on the skin or on an adhesive component
where the external O-ring 12 contacts, may aid in securing the ostomy appliance 10.
        The shape memory of the funnel-shaped member 18 is measured so that the force
required to simply pull the ostomy appliance 10 out of the stoma is such that it does not inflict
tissue damage and is comfortable to the user.
                                                  15

        In a fourth embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10, referring to Fig. 6, an ostomy
appliance 10 may include a seal for sealing around a stoma such that the seal comprising the
internal portion for sealing against the internal wall of the stoma lumen consists of an expandable
foam material 22. This foam material 22 covers the exterior of a more rigid central support 23
that is of a generally tubular shape, but having a semi-spherical bulge 24 at the distal end and
flange-like feature 25 at the proximal end. The foam material 22 may have varying thicknesses
over different portions of the central support 23, e.g., it may be thicker over the semi-spherical
bulge 24. The foam material 22 expands significantly in the presence of moisture. Over the
exterior of the foam material 22 may be a coating or covering of very thin, elastic sealing film
27. The flange-like feature 25 remains exterior to the body when the ostomy appliance 10 is in
place so as to be clear of the stoma, and may attach to the skin, an external wafer or other
component.     The flange-like feature 25 may be shaped generally flat, convex, concave or a
combination of these. Through the semi-spherical bulge 24 are a series of holes 26 for allowing
moisture to pass through the central support 23. There may be additional holes 26 at other points
along the central support 23.
        The ostomy appliance 10 may be manually inserted through the aperture of a two-piece
ostomy wafer and into the stoma and the flange-like feature 25 may then attach to the wafer.
The moisture and liquid effluent in the stoma pass into the central channel 14 and through the
holes 26 in the central support 23 and into the foam material 22 causing the foam material 22 to
expand, stretching the sealing film 27and creating a seal against the intestinal wall.
        The ostomy appliance 10 is removed manually by detaching the ostomy appliance 10
from the ostomy wafer and pulling it out of the stoma and discarded.
        In a fifth embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10, referring to Figs. 7 and 8, an ostomy
appliance 10 may include a seal for sealing around a stoma such that the seal comprising the
internal portion for sealing against the internal wall of the stoma lumen consists of an internally
inflated chamber portion 28 that may be constructed of dual interconnecting chambers 29
attached and/or bonded to, or constructed of one formed shape, with a tubular more firm or rigid
central member 30. The inflated chamber portion 28 may be attached to another more elastic
tubular member 31 similar to the proximal portion of the tubular member 13 of the second
embodiment above (Fig. 2), where the shape of the elastic tubular member 31 is "trumpet
shaped" and attached to an external O-ring 12, so as to function similarly as an adjustment to the
                                                  16

various fascia-skin distances. In another embodiment the shape of the elastic tubular member 31,
which also forms part of the central channel 14, may also be of a tubular tapered shape attached
to an external O-ring 12 as in the first embodiment above (Figs. 1, 3 an 4).
        The inflated chamber portion 28 of the fifth embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10 is
inserted fully behind the fascia. The proximal end of the ostomy appliance 10, which includes a
portion of the elastic tubular member 31 and the attached O-ring 12, remains external to the
stoma. The dual interconnecting chambers 29 are then inflated via an inflation tube 32 that has a
check valve, and an inflation device such as a syringe.          Once inflated, as with previous
embodiments, the external O-ring 12 is then grasped and gently tugged outward to seat the most
proximal of the dual interconnecting chambers 29 against the fascia. The external O-ring 12 is
then manually rolled so as to adjust to the specific distance between the fascia and skin. The
firmness of the external O-ring 12 acts to maintain the position of the rolled up length and the
elastic rebound of the tubular member 31 provides an elastic range to accommodate body
movement when the ostomy appliance 10 is wom. Also, as with previous embodiments, the
addition of an adhesive on the skin or the adhesive component 33 where the O-ring 12 contacts
may aid in securing the ostomy appliance 10. This assembly configuration may allow for easy
insertion into the stoma opening without the need for an insertion device.
        The ostomy appliance 10 is removed by deflating the interconnecting chambers 29 and
pulling the ostomy appliance 10 out of the body and discarded.
        In a sixth embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10, referring to Fig. 9, an ostomy
appliance 10 may include a seal for sealing around a stoma such that the seal comprising the
internal portion for sealing against the internal wall of the stoma lumen consists of an internal
inflated chamber 34 and an external portion for restraining against external tissue consisting of
an external inflated chamber 35 that may be fluidically interconnected and attached and/or
bonded to, or constructed of one formed shape, with a tubular more firm or rigid central member
36.
        The internal chamber 34 and the portion of the central member 36, up to just before the
external chamber 35, of the ostomy appliance 10 is inserted into the stoma. The interconnected
chambers, 34, 35, are then inflated via an inflation tube 32 that has a check valve, and an
inflation device.
                                                 17

        The ostomy appliance 10 is removed by deflating the interconnected chambers, 34, 35
and pulling the ostomy appliance 10 out of the body and discarded.
        In a seventh embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10, referring to Fig. 10, an ostomy
appliance 10 may include a seal for sealing around a stoma such that the seal comprising the
internal portion for sealing against the internal wall of the stoma lumen consists of a internal
inflated chamber 34 attached and/or bonded to, or constructed of one formed shape, with a
tubular more firm or rigid central member 36.        The central member 36 continues outside the
body, so as to provide a passageway through the ostomy appliance 10. The member external to
the stoma may be comprised of a more rigid material, effectively a collar 37, and may possess
features along the contacting surface with the central member 36 such that the collar 37 may be
manually placed over and easily slid down the central member 36 but will meet more resistance
moving up the central member 36. This may be accomplished via angled, bendable protrusions
38 with sharp ends extending radially inward and contacting the central member 36 so that
movement in one direction (downward or distally) is facilitated but opposite movement (upward
or proximally) is restrained. The restrained movement in the proximal direction of the collar 37
may not be a rigid stop but measured so as to prevent tissue damage in the event of excessive or
unexpected body movement. Another embodiment may involve a locking feature (not shown)
within the collar 37 whereas once the collar 37 is in place over the central member 36 a second
component of the collar 37 interacts to squeeze the central member 36 sufficiently so as to hold
the collar 37 in its position on the central member 36. The collar 37 shape is such as to be clear
of the stoma, and may attach to the skin, an external wafer or other component. The collar 37
may be shaped generally flat, convex, concave or a combination of these. The collar 37 may not
comprise an external seal but may only rest or attach and have "vents" allowing fluid escape in
the event the internal seal to the intestine is compromised.     The effluent venting may prevent
occlusion of the stoma opening in the event of seal failure. The effluent venting may also be an
indicator that the device is in need of replacement.
        The internal chamber 34 and the portion of the central member 36 of the ostomy
appliance 10 is inserted into the stoma and fully behind the fascia and inflated via an inflation
tube 32 that has a check valve, and an inflation device. The central member 36 is then gently
tugged in the proximal direction to seat the internal chamber 34 against the fascia. The collar 37
is then placed over the central member 36 and slid down to rest against the skin, an external
                                                 18

wafer or other component, then if needed locked in place. The central member 36 may have
excess length trimmed to reduce the profile of the ostomy appliance 10.
         The ostomy appliance 10 is removed by deflating the internal chamber 34 and pulling the
ostomy appliance 10 out of the body and discarded.
         The eighth embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10, referring to Fig. 11, has the same
features and function as the seventh except there are dual interconnecting chambers 29 similar to
the fifth embodiment.
         In a ninth embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10, referring to Figs. 12 and 13, an
ostomy appliance 10 may include a seal for sealing around a stoma such that the seal comprising
the internal portion for sealing against the internal wall of the stoma lumen consists of an
inflatable chamber 39 toroidal in shape and sealed to or continuous with a tubular tapered or
"trumpet-shape" central channel 40 constructed of a thin elastic material. The tapered channel
40 may be attached to another elastic tubular member 31 similar to the proximal portion of the
tubular member 13 of the second embodiment above (Fig. 2), where the shape of the elastic
tubular member 31 is "trumpet-shaped" and attached to an external O-ring 12, so as to function
similarly as an adjustment to the various fascia-skin distances. In another embodiment the shape
of the elastic tubular member 31, which also forms part of the central channel 14, may also be of
a tubular tapered shape attached to an external O-ring 12 as in the first embodiment above (Figs.
1, 3 and 4). The distal end of the ostomy appliance 10, including the inflatable chamber 39, the
distal end of the inflation tube 32 and the tapered channel 40 with a portion of the elastic tubular
member 31 may be constrained, e.g., folded, rolled and/or twisted, into a thin, long shape to ease
insertion into the stoma without the need for an insertion tool. Gelatine or other coating on the
constrained members may facilitate insertion by maintaining the constraint until the gelatine
contacts or is within the moist interior of the stoma. The addition of a cap over the internal
chamber may also aid in maintaining the chamber in a constrained condition before use.
         The constrained distal end of the ninth embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10 is
inserted fully into the stoma, so as the end is behind the fascia. The proximal end of the ostomy
appliance 10 which includes a portion of the elastic tubular member 31 and the attached O-ring
12 remain external to the stoma. After the constraining coating has dissolved, the inflatable
chamber 39 is then inflated via an inflation tube 32 that has a check valve, and an inflation
device such as a syringe. Once inflated, as with previous embodiments, the external O-ring 12 is
                                                  19

then grasped and gently tugged outward (proximally) to seat the inflatable chamber 39 against
the fascia. The external O-ring 12 is then manually rolled so as to adjust to the specific distance
between the fascia and skin. The firmness of the external O-ring 12 acts to maintain the position
of the rolled up length, and the elastic rebound of the tubular member 31 and the tapered channel
40 provides an elastic range to accommodate body movement when the ostomy appliance 10 is
wom.     Also, as with previous embodiments, the addition of an adhesive on the skin or the
adhesive component where the O-ring 12 contacts may aid in securing the ostomy appliance 10.
        The ostomy appliance 10 is removed by deflating the inflatable chamber 39 and pulling
the ostomy appliance 10 out of the body and discarded.
        In a tenth embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10, referring to Figs. 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19 and 20, an ostomy appliance 10 may include a seal for sealing around a stoma 41 such that the
seal comprising the internal portion for sealing against the internal wall of the stoma lumen
consists of an internal inflatable chamber 39 toroidal in shape and sealed to or continuous with a
tubular tapered or "trumpet-shape" central channel 40 constructed of a thin elastic material. The
tapered channel 40 may also be continuous with another external inflatable chamber 42 having
thicker and/or stronger (less soft) elastic material. There are interconnecting fluid passageways
43 between the internal chamber 39 and the external chamber 42. At the entrance, exit or along
the fluid passageways 43 there may be an orifice or other fluid restriction, or valve to delay
and/or control the initiation of the fluid transfer from the external chamber 42 to the internal
chamber 39. The external chamber 42 is to be pressurized with fluid at manufacture or at some
time previous to use, such that the pressure contained, when released, can be utilized to transfer,
via elastic action, the fluidic component from the external chamber 42 through the fluid
passageways 43 into the internal chamber 39 so the internal chamber 39 may deploy within the
body without the need of a secondary component for inflating the ostomy appliance 10.           The
internal chamber 39 and the tapered channel 40 may be constrained, e.g., folded, rolled and/or
twisted, into a thin, long shape to ease insertion into the stoma 41 without the need for an
insertion tool. Gelatine or other coating 50 on the constrained members may facilitate insertion
by maintaining the constraint until the gelatine contacts or is within the moist interior of the
stoma 41. The addition of a cap 46 over the internal chamber 39 and constrained members may
also aid in maintaining the internal chamber 39 in a constrained condition before use.
Constraining the internal chamber 39 may also prevent premature fluid transfer from the
                                                 20

pressurized external chamber 42. Attached to the external chamber 42 is an attachment cover
member 44.     The function of the cover member 44 is to provide a means of easily handling,
attaching/removing and deflating the ostomy appliance 10 and is constructed of a relatively rigid
polymer material.    On the underside of the cover member 44 along the outer flange is a ring
shaped area 48 that once the ostomy appliance 10 is deployed will contact the surface around the
stoma 41 on a two-piece ostomy wafer 47.          The ring-shaped area 48 has alternating shallow
vents 51 or spaced clearances around the perimeter to allow effluent and/or gas escape from
around the back side of the internal seal in the event of seal failure. This ring-shaped area 48
may be coated with an adhesive between the vents 51 and/or the ostomy wafer 47 may have an
adhesive for attaching the ostomy appliance 10. Additionally, within the cover member 44 is a
deflation tear-away tab 45 used to deflate the ostomy appliance 10. The deflation tab 45 is a
break-away feature of the cover member 44 in that the attachment or bonding of the material of
the external chamber 42 to the attachment member 44 overlaps the perforation of the deflation
tab 45 such that when the deflation tab 45 is broken, the seal to the external chamber 42 is
compromised, deflating the ostomy appliance 10. Successfully packaging the ostomy appliance
10 may be accomplished by utilizing a container pressurized with the same fluid and to the same
pressure as the external chamber 42 in the non-deployed state. This may alleviate the problem of
the ostomy appliance 10 depressurizing over time due to the permeability of the ostomy
appliance 10 materials. The package container may be constructed of barrier films or may be a
hard polymer or an aluminum (e.g., like a soda can) or other container that will hold the fluidic
pressure over time until the contained ostomy appliance 10 is needed.
         The tenth embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10 is removed from its container, the cap
46 is removed (Fig. 15), and the ostomy appliance 10 is inserted fully into the stoma 41 (Figs.
16, 17 and 18), so as the end of the constrained portion is behind the fascia 49. The constraining
coating 50 dissolves and the transfer of fluid from the external chamber 42 to the internal
chamber 39 initiates. Applying a manual downward pressure to the cover member 44 may also
initiate and/or accelerate the transfer of fluid. The internal chamber 39 is then inflated, and the
external chamber 42 deflated which allows the ring-shaped area 48 to contact the surface of the
ostomy wafer 47 and attach the ostomy appliance 10. Stoma effluent is then free to flow through
the ostomy appliance 10 and out into a pouch without contacting other tissue.
                                                  21

         The ostomy appliance 10 is removed by pulling the deflation tab 45 out, deflating the
ostomy appliance 10, then pulling the ostomy appliance 10 away from the ostomy wafer 47 and
out of the body and discarded.
         The eleventh embodiment of the ostomy appliance 10, referring to Figs. 21 and 22, has
the same features and functionality as the tenth except does not possess an attachment cover
member 44 but instead relies on the external inflatable chamber 42 for providing a means of
easily handling, attaching/removing and deflating the ostomy appliance 10. As with the tenth
embodiment there are interconnecting fluid passageways 43 between the internal chamber 39 and
the external chamber 42 that contains an orifice 52 or other fluid restriction, or valve to delay
and/or control the initiation of the fluid transfer from the external chamber 42 to the internal
chamber 39. As with the tenth embodiment, the external chamber 42 is to be pressurized with
fluid at manufacture or at some time previous to use. The contained pressurized fluid, when
released, may transfer, via elastic action, the fluid from the external chamber 42 through the
orifice(s) 52 and fluid passageways 43 into the internal chamber 39 so the internal chamber 39
may deploy within the body without the need of a separate inflation device.          The internal
chamber 39 and the tapered channel 40 may also be constrained and held via a coating 50, as
with the tenth embodiment, into a thin, long shape to ease insertion into the stoma 41. A cap
may be placed over the internal chamber 39 and constrained members. Additionally, once the
ostomy appliance 10 is in place and the external chamber 42 has transferred the fluid into the
internal chamber 39 to deploy the ostomy appliance 10, the deflated external chamber 42 may
then be used, being now similar to the external O-ring 12 in the ninth embodiment (Figs. 12
and& 13), to function as an adjustment to the various fascia-skin distances via a circumferential
roll up of the tapered channel 40.     Successfully packaging the ostomy appliance 10 may be
accomplished similar to the tenth embodiment, by utilizing a container pressurized with the same
fluid and to the same pressure as the external chamber 42 in the non-deployed state.
         The ostomy appliance 10 may be fabricated in part by means of a dip molding process.
Fig. 23 demonstrates an example of a possible dip-mold mandrel tool. First the tool may be
dipped in an appropriate material component up to the A-A line and allowed to cure so as to
form a thin, soft, highly elastic film for the formation of the internal chamber 39 and tapered
channel 40.     This defines the first dipping area 53.    Then the tool may be dipped in an
appropriate material component up to the B-B line and allowed to cure so as to form a thick,
                                                 22

strong, elastic film for the formation of the external chamber 42. This defines the second dipping
area 54.    The second dipping area 54 may require subsequent dips to achieve the desired
thickness. After curing of the dip-mold materials additional assembly steps will be needed to
complete the ostomy appliance 10.
        The eleventh embodimentof the ostomy appliance 10, very similar to the tenth, is
removed from its container, the cap over the constrained members is removed, and the ostomy
appliance 10 is inserted fully into the stoma 41, so as the end of the constrained portion is behind
the fascia 49.    The constraining coating dissolves and the transfer of fluid from the external
chamber 42 to the internal chamber 39 initiates. The internal chamber 39 is then inflated, and
the external chamber 42 deflated which allows the deflated external chamber 42 to be used as the
external O-ring 12 as in previous embodiments. The external chamber 42 is grasped and gently
tugged outward (proximally) to seat the inflatable chamber 39 against the fascia 49. The external
chamber 42 is then manually rolled so as to adjust to the specific distance between the fascia and
skin. The firmness of the deflated external chamber 42 acts to maintain the position of the rolled
up length, and the elastic rebound of the tapered channel 40 provides an elastic range to
accommodate body movement when the ostomy appliance 10 is wom. Adhesive on the surface
of the ostomy wafer 47 contacting the underside of the external chamber 42 assists in attaching
the ostomy appliance 10. Stoma effluent is then free to flow through the ostomy appliance 10
and out into a pouch without contacting other tissue.
        The ostomy appliance 10 is removed by pulling the deflation pull-out 51, deflating the
ostomy appliance 10, then pulling the ostomy appliance 10 away from the ostomy wafer 47 and
out of the body and discarded.
        It will be appreciated that the foregoing description contains preferred forms of the
invention, and that many modifications, improvements and equivalents are within the scope of
the claimed invention.
                                                  23

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A stoma extender comprising:
               a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma
       extender before the effluent exits the stoma;
               a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit
       for stomal effluent; and
               a conduit portion coupled between the first and second ends for communicating
       stomal effluent through the stoma extender,
               wherein the first end comprises a seal defined by a plurality of bendable fingers
       extending from a support collar, and elastic webbing comprising an elastic sleeve
       covering the fingers, wherein the elastic sleeve is attached to an external O-ring, and
       wherein the fingers, support collar and webbing define a resiliently collapsible funnel
       shape.
2.     The stoma extender of claim 1, wherein the webbing is integrally formed with the fingers
       and collar.
3.     The stoma extender of claim 2, wherein each of the fingers comprises a tip remote from
       the support collar, the tip being curved away from an intestinal-wall-facing surface of the
       finger such that, in use, the tip does not bear directly on the intestinal wall.
4.     A stoma extender comprising:
               a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma
       extender before the effluent exits the stoma;
               a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit
       for stomal effluent; and
               a conduit portion extending between the first and second ends for communicating
       stomal effluent through the stoma extender;
       wherein at least the first end comprises:
               a tubular support member; and
               a first sleeve extending around at least a portion of the tubular support member,
       the first sleeve comprising a foam material that expands in response to contact with
                                                  24

    moisture, whereby when the first end is inserted into a stoma in use, moisture from
    stomal effluent causes the first sleeve to expand for forming a seal between the first end
    and the intestinal wall.
5.  The stoma extender of claim 4, wherein the tubular member comprises at least one
    aperture for communicating moisture from inside the tubular member to the first sleeve.
6.  The stoma extender of claim 4 and claim 5, further comprising a second sleeve extending
    around the first sleeve for (i) containing the first sleeve and (ii) defining a contact surface
    for contacting the intestinal wall.
7.  The stoma extender of any one of claims 4 to 6, wherein the tubular support member has
    a bulbous or bulged shape at the first end of the stoma extender.
8.  The stoma extender of any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein the tubular support member and
    the first sleeve extend from the first end towards the second end.
9.  A stoma extender comprising:
             a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma
    extender before the effluent exits the stoma;
             a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit
    for stomal effluent; and
             a conduit portion coupled between the first and second ends for communicating
    stomal effluent through the stoma extender,
             wherein the first end and at least a portion of the conduit portion have a collapsed
    form prior to first use, the collapsed form being retained by a water-soluble and/or water
    dispersible glue or coating on said collapsed form, whereby in use, once the first end has
    been inserted into a stoma, the collapsed form is released by contact with moisture from
    stomal effluent and wherein said glue or coating is of gelatin.
10. A stoma extender comprising:
             a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma
    extender before the effluent exits the stoma;
             a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit
    for stomal effluent;
                                               25

            a conduit portion coupled between the first and second ends for communicating
    stomal effluent through the stoma extender; wherein the conduit portion is elastic and has
    a tapered shape from the second end to the first end, so as to function as an adjustment to
    various fascia to skin distances;
            an inflatable seal at the first end for sealing against the intestinal wall behind a
    stoma;
            an inflation fluid reservoir for storing inflation fluid prior to delivery to the
    inflatable seal, the inflation fluid reservoir having a storage capacity sufficient to inflate
    the inflatable seal to an operative inflated state in use; and
            an inflation conduit for delivering inflation fluid from the reservoir to the
    inflatable seal.
11. The stoma extender of claim 10, wherein the inflation fluid reservoir comprises an elastic
    container for storing the inflation fluid under pressure greater than atmospheric pressure.
12. The stoma extender of claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the inflation fluid reservoir is
    provided at the second end, or nearer the second end than the first end.
13. The stoma extender of any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein the inflation fluid reservoir
    has a toroidal shape.
14. The stoma extender of any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein the inflation reservoir is
    responsive to manual pressure applied at the second end, while rolling, folding, or
    pressing the second end towards stoma level during fitting of the stoma extender, to urge
    inflation fluid out of the reservoir.
15. The stoma extender of any one of claims 10 to 14, further comprising a device for
    retaining the first end in a non-inflated state until the first end has been received within
    the stoma.
16. The stoma extender of claim 15, wherein the device comprises a water soluble and/or
    water-dispersible glue or coating at the first end.
17. The stoma extender of claim 16, wherein the glue or coating comprises gelatin.
18. The stoma extender of any one of claims 10 to 17 wherein at least the inflation fluid
    reservoir is initially contained within removable packaging, the removable packaging
                                               26

        containing a second reservoir of the inflation fluid at a pressure not substantially less than
        the pressure within the inflation fluid reservoir.
19.     The stoma extender of claim 18, wherein the removable packaging is made of barrier
        material for blocking transpiration of inflation fluid through the removable packaging.
20.     A stoma extender comprising:
                a tubular member of generally self-supporting shape, the tubular member having a
        first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the tubular member
        before the effluent exits the stoma, and a second end for remaining external of the stoma,
        for providing a discharge exit for stomal effluent passing through the tubular member;
                a collar slidable along at least a portion of the tubular member from the second
        end; and
                a selective engagement device for providing selective engagement between the
        collar and the tubular member, the selective engagement device being at least one
        selected from:
                (a)      a directionally selective engagement device comprising angled, bendable
                         protrusions with ends extending radially inward and contacting the tubular
                         member so that movement in a direction away from the second end is
                         facilitated, and which produces engagement between the collar and the
                         tubular portion to resist movement of the collar in an opposite direction
                         towards the second end, and/or
                (b)      a manually selective engagement device responsive to manual operation
                         between an engaged condition for retaining the collar at a position on the
                         tubular member, and a non-engaged condition that permits sliding
                         movement of the collar on the tubular member.
21.    A stoma extender comprising:
                a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma
extender before the effluent exits the stoma;
                a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit
for stomal effluent; and
                                                    27

                  a conduit portion coupled between the first and second ends for communicating
stomal effluent through the stoma extender,
wherein the length of the conduit portion is adjustable stably, to permit adaptation of the stoma
extender to an individual's stoma.
22.      The stoma extender of claim 21, wherein at least a portion of the conduit portion is
configured to permit at least one selected from; at least partial rolling-up of the conduit portion
along its axis to reduce the length: and/or at least partial unrolling of a rolled-up portion of the
conduit portion along its axis to increase the length.
23.      The stoma extender of claim 22, wherein the conduit portion is reliable from the second
end to permit adaptation of the length once the first end is already inserted into a stoma.
24.      The stoma extender of claim 21, wherein at least a portion of the conduit portion is
configured to permit at least one selected from: at least partial folding-back of the conduit
portion along its axis to reduce the length: and/or at least partial unfolding of a folded-back
portion of the conduit portion along its axis to increase the length.
25.      The stoma extender of claim 24, wherein the conduit portion is foldable from the second
end to permit adaptation of the length once the first end is already inserted into a stoma.
26.      The stoma extender of claim 21, wherein the first end comprises a seal for sealing against
the intestinal wall.
27.      The stoma extender of claim 26, wherein the seal is selected from: an inflatable seal,
and/or a seal comprising resilient fingers, and/or a seal comprising a material that expands when
contacted by moisture from stomal effluent.
28.      The stoma extender of claim 21, wherein the second end comprises a member or portion
that is stiffer than a portion of the conduit portion extending to the second end.
29.      The stoma extender of claim 28, wherein the second end comprises a source of inflation
fluid for the first end.
30.       The stoma extender of claim 21, wherein at least a portion of the conduit portion is
elastic.
31.      The stoma extender of claim 21, further comprising an adhesive for retaining the second
end, whereby an adjusted length of the conduit portion is stably held.
32.      A stoma extender comprising:
                                                   28

                 a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma
extender before the effluent exits the stoma;
                 a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit
for stomal effluent; and
                 a conduit portion coupled between the first and second ends for communicating
stomal effluent through the stoma extender,
wherein the first end comprises a seal defined by a plurality of resilient fingers extending from a
support collar, and elastic webbing extending at least between portions of the fingers, the fingers,
support collar and webbing defining a resiliently collapsible funnel-shape.
33.      The stoma extender of claim 32, wherein the webbing comprises an elastic sleeve
covering the fingers.
34.      The stoma extender of claim 32, wherein the webbing is integrally formed with the
fingers and collar.
35.      The stoma extender of claim 32, wherein each of the fingers comprises a tip remote from
the support collar, the tip being curved away from an intestinal-wall- facing surface of the finger
such that, in use, the tip does not bear directly on the intestinal wall.
36.      A stoma extender comprising:
                 a first end for insertion Into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma
extender before the effluent exits the stoma;
                 a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit
for stomal effluent; and
                 a conduit portion extending between the first and second ends for communicating
stomal effluent through the stoma extender,
wherein at least the first end comprises:
                 a tubular support member; and
                 a first sleeve extending around at least a portion of the tubular support member,
the first sleeve comprising material that expands In response to contact with moisture, whereby
when the first end Is inserted into a stoma in use, moisture from stomal effluent causes the first
sleeve to expand for forming a sea[ between the first end and the intestinal wail.
37.      The stoma extender of claim 36, wherein the first sleeve comprises a foam that expands
when contacted by moisture,
                                                     29

38.      The stoma extender of claim 36, wherein the tubular member comprises at least one
aperture for communicating moisture from inside the tubular member to the first sleeve.
39.      The stoma extender of claim 36, further comprising a second sleeve extending around the
first sleeve for (i) containing the first sleeve and (ii) defining a contact surface for contacting the
intestinal wall.
40.      The stoma extender of claim 36, wherein the tubular member has a bulbous or bulged
shape at the first end of the stoma extender.
41.      The stoma extender of claim 36, wherein the tubular support member and the first sleeve
extend from the first end towards the second end.
42.      A stoma extender comprising:
                 a first end for insertion Into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma
extender before the effluent exits the stoma;
                 a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit
for stomal effluent; and
                 a conduit portion coupled between the first and second ends for communicating
stomal effluent through the stoma extender,
wherein the first end and at least a portion of the conduit portion have a collapsed form prior to
first use, the collapsed form being retained by a water-soluble and/or water-dispersible glue or
coating on said collapsed form, whereby in use, once the first end has been inserted into a stoma,
the collapsed form is released by contact with moisture form stomal effluent.
43.      The stoma extender of claim 42, wherein said glue or coating is of gelatin.
44.      A stoma extender comprising:
                 a first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the stoma
extender before the effluent exits the stoma;
                 a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing a discharge exit
for stomal effluent;
                 a conduit portion coupled between the first and second ends for communicating
stomal effluent through the stoma extender;
                 an inflatable seal at the first end for sealing against the intestinal wall behind a
stoma:
                                                     30

                 an inflation fluid reservoir for storing inflation fluid prior to delivery to the
inflatable seal, the inflation fluid reservoir having a storage capacity sufficient to inflate the
inflatable seal to an operative inflated state in use; and
                 an inflation conduit for delivering inflation fluid from the reservoir to the
inflatable seal.
45.     The stoma extender of claim 44, wherein the inflation fluid reservoir comprises an elastic
container for storing the inflation fluid under pressure greater than atmospheric pressure.
46.     The stoma extender of claim 44, wherein the inflation fluid reservoir is provided at the
second end, or nearer the second end than the first end.
47.     The stoma extender of claim 46, wherein the inflation fluid reservoir has a toroidal shape.
48.     The stoma extender of claim 46, wherein the inflation reservoir is responsive to manual
pressure applied at the second end, while rolling, folding, or pressing the second end towards
stoma level during fitting of the stoma extender, to urge inflation fluid out of the reservoir.
49.     The stoma extender of claim 44, further comprising a device for retaining the first end in
a non-inflated state until the first end has been received within the stoma. 50.          The stoma
extender of claim 49, wherein the device comprises a water soluble and/or or water dispersible
glue or coating at the first end,
51.     The stoma extender of claim 50, wherein the glue or coating comprises gelatin.
52.     The stoma extender of claim 44 wherein at least the inflation fluid reservoir is initially
contained within removable packaging, the removable packaging containing a second reservoir
of the inflation fluid at a pressure not substantially less than the pressure within the inflation fluid
reservoir.
53.     The stoma extender of claim 52, wherein the removable packaging is made of barrier
material for blocking transpiration of inflation fluid through the removable packaging.
54.     A stoma extender comprising:
                 a tubular member of generally self-supporting shape, the tubular member having a
first end for insertion into a stoma for diverting stomal effluent into the tubular member before
the effluent exits the stoma, and a second end for remaining external of the stoma, for providing
a discharge exit for stomal effluent passing through the tubular member;
                 a collar slidable along at least a portion of the tubular member from the second
end,;and
                                                     31

                 a selective engagement device for providing selective engagement between the
collar and the tubular member, the selective engagement device being at least one selected from:
                         (a)     a directionally selective engagement device that permits sliding
                         movement of the collar on the tubular member In a direction away from
                         the second end, and which produces engagement between the collar and
                         the tubular portion to resist movement of the collar in an opposite direction
                         towards the second end, and/or
                         (b)     a manually selective engagement device responsive to manual
                         operation between an engaged condition for retaining the collar at a
                         position on the tubular member, and a non-engaged condition that permits
                         sliding movement of the collar on the tubular member.
55.     The stoma extender of claim 54, wherein the directionally selective engagement device
comprises a plurality of fingers configured for permitting sliding movement in one direction, and
for resisting sliding movement in said opposite direction.
                                                    32

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
