                                 ABSTRACT
A stair assembly comprising at least two stair modules with each connected
to an adjacent module; the stair assembly comprising a first module having
first and second side abutments and spanning therebetween a stair tread.
There is at least one other abutment surface associated with said first and
second side abutments and which provides a bearing surface to receive and
retain an adjacent stair module. The second module includes a stair tread
which when the first stair module is disposed in an elevated position relative
to the stair tread of the first module when the second module engages the
abutment surface of the first module.
                                       1

          r4
C'4
                        uj
                        cc
                        (D
              OD N
                 r4
    Ln
                           Ln
       Ln
           rN
                    010

 STAIR MODULES WHICH CO OPERATE TO FORM A TEMPORARY
                                  STAIR CASE
BACKGROUND
[0001] The present invention relates to stair case construction and more
particularly relates to a stair module which co operates with similar or
identical stair modules to form a stair case. The invention has been primarily
developed in order to produce a relatively light weight stair module which
allows assembly and dismantling of stair cases which are particularly useful
for temporary stair casing as is often used on building sites. Although the
invention to be described herein has other applications it will be primarily
described with reference to its application in the construction of temporary
stairs for use in the construction industry. However, it should be appreciated
that the invention is not limited to this particular mode and field of use and
can be employed in more permanent stairways. The invention further relates
to a module for construction of stairs which can be used in any application
in which stairways are required for permanent or temporary purposes such
as but not limited to temporary event structures including outdoor structures
and grandstands for concerts and the like.
PRIOR ART
[0002] There are in existence a variety of modular stair assemblies used in
the construction industry including modules for use in temporary stair cases.
Various stairway kits for assembly of stairways have been in existence for
many years. Among the known stair modules are those made from timber. A
disadvantage of such timber modules is that they cannot be re used. Various
other stair modules have been described in published patent applications
such as     AU2010100874 and PCT/EP2010/067776 and AU2007100780
which are incorporated by reference herein. Stair modules have been
provided in kit form for the purpose of assembly on sites which require
                                        1

temporary stairways such as on constructions sites. They are used for access
between levels in temporary scaffolding.
[0003] Stair case kits have been used for assembly in domestic dwellings.
Traditionally space measurements determine the number of treads, riser
height to fit the available space. The process of measuring, designing and
manufacturing a staircase in this way can take a long time, perhaps up to six
weeks. An alternative to a measured and made staircase of this type is to use
a prefabricated staircase. However, such prefabricated staircases are only
manufactured in a small range of sizes and are thus not suitable for all
buildings. Stair case systems are known which permit a staircase to be
manufactured and installed quickly in any building, regardless of the vertical
distance between the downstairs and upstairs floors to be joined by the
staircase. One such system a kit for assembling to produce a staircase, which
includes a pair of stair supports, a plurality of tread supports for supporting
treads when the staircase is assembled and means defining the correct
position of the plurality of tread supports on the stair supports to produce a
staircase to a given specification. The kit provides all of the components
required to assemble a staircase which complies with building regulations.
The means defining the correct position of the plurality of tread supports on
the stair supports may comprise a template.
[0004] Although there have been a number of attempts at providing modules
for internal stair cases they are not adaptable to all stair case locations and
environments. On construction sites temporary stair cases must be strong
and durable. Installing temporary stair cases by known methods is labour
intensive and costly particularly as current temporary stair cases are not
suitable for re use. This is a costly waste of material and requires more
labour. There is a long felt want in the industry to provide an efficient
method for assembly of temporary stair cases for use on building sites where
temporary stairs are required.
                                       2

INVENTION
[0005] The present invention provides an alternative to the known prior art
and the shortcomings identified. The foregoing and other objects and
advantages will appear from the description to follow. In the description
reference is made to the accompanying representations, which forms a part
hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments
in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments will be
described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the
invention, and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilised
and that structural changes may be made without departing from the scope
of the invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be
taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is best
defined by the appended claims.
[0006] The examples referred to herein are illustrative and are not to be
regarded as limiting the scope of the invention. While various embodiments
of the invention will be described herein, it will be appreciated that these are
capable of modification, and therefore the disclosures herein are not to be
construed as limiting of the precise details set forth, but to avail such
changes and alterations as fall within the purview of the description. It is an
object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least
ameliorate one or more of the above prior art disadvantages. Accordingly, in
a first aspect, the present invention provides a module for use in the
construction of a stair assembly manufactured from a plurality of like
modules allowing ease of assembly and disassembly.
[0007] In its broadest form the present invention comprises:
a stair assembly comprising at least two stair modules with each connected
to an adjacent module; the stair assembly comprising a first module having
first and second side abutments and spanning therebetween a stair tread; at
least one other abutment surface associated with said first and second side
                                       3

abutments and which provides a bearing surface to receive and retain an
adjacent stair module, the second module including a stair tread which when
the adjacent stair module is disposed in an elevated position relative to the
stair tread of the first module when the second module engages the abutment
surface of the first module.
[0008] According to a preferred embodiment each module is connected to an
adjacent module via said auxiliary abutments. According to a preferred
embodiment each module comprises first and second abutments which
receive and retain an end of a stair tread within a recess defined by the
abutment.    Each     abutment preferably    comprises   a   cubic   formation
manufactured from opposing angle sections arranged to define an internal
space which retains an end of the stair tread.
[0009] In another broad form the present invention comprises:
a stair assembly comprising at least two stair modules; the stair assembly
comprising a first module having first and second side abutments and
spanning therebetween a stair tread whose first and second ends are
respectively connected to said first and second side abutments; each side
abutment including at least one abutment surface which provides a
connecting surface to receive and retain an adjacent stair module, a second
module of said at least two stair modules including a stair tread which when
disposed adjacent the first stair module is disposed in an elevated position
relative to the stair tread of the first module, wherein the first and second
stair module are interconnected via an auxiliary module which provides a
bearing surface for the second module.
[0010] In another broad form the present invention comprises:
A stair assembly comprising at least two stair modules; the stair assembly
comprising a first module having first and second side abutments and
spanning therebetween       a stair tread having first and second ends
respectively connected to said first and second side abutments; each side
abutment including at least one abutment surface which provides a
                                        4

connecting surface to receive and retain an adjacent stair module, a second
module of said at least two stair modules including a stair tread which when
disposed adjacent the first stair module is disposed in an elevated position
relative to the stair tread of the first module, wherein the first and second
stair modules are interconnected via an auxiliary module which provides a
bearing surface for the second module; wherein, the side abutments of each
module are manufactured from angle sections; and wherein each angle
section is, when connected to form the side abutments, disposed normally to
an adjacent angle section.
[0011] According to a preferred embodiment the free ends of the stair tread
are each connected to the side abutments via bolt fasteners.
[0012] In another broad form the present invention comprises:
a stair module for use in the construction of a stair assembly comprising a
plurality of like stair modules, each connected to an adjacent like module;
each module comprising first and second side abutments and spanning
therebetween a stair tread;     the stair tread comprising a channel section
terminating in first and second ends; the abutments each comprising an outer
wall and side walls defining a cubic formation which receives and retains the
stair tread.
[0012] According to a preferred embodiment each side abutment is
connected to an adjacent abutment via an auxiliary abutment. This allows
the modules to be cascaded as a typical rising stair case. The auxiliary
abutment connected to said first and second side abutments provide a
support surface to receive and retain first and second like stair modules, the
second module including a stair tread which is disposed in an elevated
position relative to the stair tread of the first module when the second
module is located on the auxiliary abutments.
[0013] In another broad form the present invention comprises:
a method of assembly of a modular stair assembly, comprising a plurality of
like modules;
                                        5

the method comprising the steps of ;
a) providing a stair module comprising first and second side abutments and
spanning therebetween a stair tread;     the stair tread comprising a channel
section terminating in first and second ends; the abutments each comprising
an outer wall and side walls defining a cubic formation which receives and
retains the stair tread;
b) attaching a plurality of said modules to each other in cascading
relationship so as to form a modular stair assembly.
The method comprises the further step of attaching an auxiliary abutment
member to the side abutment members of the first module and attaching a
second module to the auxiliary abutment so that the first and second
modules are arranged in cascading relationship.
[0014] The present invention provides an alternative to the known prior art
and the shortcomings identified. The foregoing and other objects and
advantages will appear from the description to follow. In the description
reference is made to the accompanying representations, which forms a part
hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments
in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments will be
described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the
invention, and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilised
and that structural changes may be made without departing from the scope
of the invention. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be
taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is best
defined by the appended claims.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0015] The present invention will now be described in more detail according
to a preferred but non limiting embodiment and with reference to the
accompanying drawings wherein;
Figure. 1 shows an assembled perspective view of a module stair assembly
according to a preferred embodiment;
                                       6

Figure 2 shows a side elevation view of the modular stair assembly of figure
1.
Figure 3 shows a plan view of the stair assembly of figure 1.
Figure 4 shows an end elevation view of the stair assembly of figure 1.
Figure 5 shows an alternative perspective view of the stair assembly of
figure 1 connected.
Figure 6 shows an exploded view of a stair module according to a preferred
embodiment.
Figure 7 shows an perspective view of the assembled stair module of figure
6.
Figure 8 shows a side elevation view of a stair assembly according to one
embodiment.
Figure 9 shows a perspective view of a stair assembly comprising four
modules and with detachable handrails fitted; and
Figure 10 shows      the assembled stair assembly of figure 9 attached to a
building scaffold.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0016] The examples referred to herein are illustrative and are not to be
regarded as limiting the scope of the invention. While various embodiments
of the invention have been described herein, it will be appreciated that these
are capable of modification, and therefore the disclosures herein are not to
be construed as limiting of the precise details set forth, but to avail such
changes and alterations as fall within the purview of the description.
Although the method and apparatus aspects of the invention will be
described with reference to their application to heavy building construction,
it will be appreciated that the invention has alternative applications.
[0017] Referring to Figure 1 there is shown an assembled perspective view
of a module stair assembly 1 according to a preferred embodiment. Stair
assembly 1 comprises a plurality of like modules 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 each connected
to an adjacent module. Module 2 comprises side abutments 7 and 8 and
spanning therebetween a stair tread 9. Side abutments 7 and 8 are preferably
                                        7

manufactured from co operating angle sections which are arranged to form a
preferably rectangular or square cubic member. Module 3 comprises side
abutments 10 and 11 and spanning therebetween a stair tread 13. Engaging
side abutments 8 and 11 of respective modules 2 and 3 is             auxiliary
abutment 12 which provides a bearing support for abutment 11 of module 3.
The stair tread 13 of the second module 3 is as a result of abutment 12
disposed in an elevated position relative to the stair tread 9 of the first
module 2 when the abutment 11 of second module 3 is located on the
auxiliary abutment 12. A similar arrangement exists on the opposite side of
module 3 in that abutments 7 and 10 are supported by an auxiliary abutment
(obscured) in alignment with abutment 12. The aforesaid interengagements
between abutments 8 and 11 of modules 2 and 3 and auxiliary abutment 12
is repeated each time a further module is added to the stair assembly.
Module 4 includes side abutment 14 which receives an end of tread 16 and
defines a recess with abutment 11 to receive and retain therein auxiliary
support abutment 15. Module 5 includes side abutment 19 which receives an
end of tread 17 and defines a recess with abutment 15 to receive and retain
therein auxiliary support abutment 20. Module 6 includes side abutment 21
which receives an end of tread 18 and defines a recess with abutment 20 to
receive and retain therein auxiliary support abutment 22. Module 6 includes
on an opposite side of tread 18 a side abutment 23 which is supported by
auxiliary abutment 24. Modules 4 and 5 have at their opposite ends
abutments 25 and 26 which are supported by auxiliary abutments (obscured)
similar to abutment 24.
[0018] Figure 2 shows a side elevation view of the modular stair assembly
of figure    1 with corresponding numbering.         Figure 3 shows with
corresponding numbering a plan view of the stair assembly of figure 1.
Figure 4 shows with corresponding numbering an end elevation view of the
stair assembly of figure 1. Figure 5 shows with corresponding numbering an
alternative perspective view of the stair assembly of figure 1 connected.
[0019] Figure 6 shows an exploded view of the module 2 and comprises
abutments 7 and 8 and spanning therebetween a stair tread 9. Abutment 8
                                       8

according to the embodiment shown comprises co operating plate or angle
sections 30, 31, 32 and 33. Abutment 7 has similar construction including
angle sections 34, 35, 36 and 36a. Tread 9 spans therebetween and is
preferably manufactured as a channel section including a web 37 which
forms the walking surface of the stair module and flanges 38 and 39 which
act as stiffeners. Tread 9 can have a variety of spans depending upon
requirements in each application for the stair assembly. Likewise the size of
the selected angle profile sued for manufacture of the abutments 7 and 8 can
be varied according to loading requirements.       Also both equal and unequal
angle sections can be used as required. In general the width of the stair
walking surface 37 will determine the length of the angle sections. Likewise
the riser height of each stair will dictate the length of the angle used to form
the riser. According to a preferred embodiment the sides and therefore the
angle lengths will be similar or the same as       the riser height and walking
surface width. Although angle and channel sections are preferred for
manufacture of the abutments and stair tread respectively, it will be
appreciated that alternative steel, plastics or aluminium sections may be used
such as plate and box sections.
[0020] Figure 7 shows with corresponding numbering an assembled view of
module 2 of figure 6. According to a preferred embodiment each module is
connected to an adjacent module via the auxiliary abutments. According to a
preferred embodiment each module comprises first and second abutments
which receive and retain an end of a stair tread within a recess defined by
the abutment. Each abutment preferably comprises a cubic formation
manufactured from opposing angle sections arranged to define an internal
space which retains an end of the stair tread.
[0021] Figure 8 shows a side elevation view of a four stair module stair
assembly 40 which employs seven separate stair modules. Stair assembly 40
includes four stair modules 41, 42, 43 and 44. Each of modules 41, 42, 43
and 44 have respective side abutments 45, 46, 47 and 48. Modules 46, 47
and 48 engage auxiliary modules 49, 50 and 51. Each module may be
supplied singularly as for example module 41 or as a double module formed
                                         9

by fixation of modules 42 and 49. Modules 42 and 49 are fastened via bolts
The stair assembly is preferably bolted in place by bolting each module to an
adjacent module via the associated auxiliary module.          Each abutment is
adapted with a plurality of bolt openings 52 which are spaced apart retain
fastening bolts. The array of fastening bolt openings 52 allow the module
abutments to be interchanged and connected on each face of the abutments.
In the embodiment shown abutment 45 is attached to auxiliary abutment 49
via bolts 53 and 54. Abutment of module 42 is attached to auxiliary
abutment 49 via bolt 55. This bolting arrangement is repeated for each
module such that abutment 46 is attached to auxiliary abutment 50 via bolts
56 and 57 and abutment module 47 is attached to auxiliary abutment 50 via
bolt 59. Module 43 is connected to module 51 via bolts 100 and 101 and
module 44 is connected to module 51 via bolt 102. Not all bolts used are
shown but the number of bolts used are dictated by expected stair loadings.
Each abutment has a plurality of aligned bolt holes which allow for different
numbers of bolts depending upon requirements. The bolts resist shear forces
applied when the stair assembly is constructed. Increased shear resistance
can be obtained by increasing bolt numbers. The modularity of the
construction of the stair assembly 40 allows for different tread widths and
different riser heights. This would require selection of different angle section
lengths when angles are used to from the side abutments and selection of a
width of tread to be accommodated by the abutments.
[0022]     Figure 9 shows a perspective view of a stair assembly 60
comprising four modules 61, 62, 63 and 64. Modules 62, 63 and 64 are
supported by auxiliary modules 91, 92 and 93. Stair assembly 60 is
constructed in a similar manner to that described as for module 40 of figure
8. The modules are bolted together. For example module 61 is bolted to
auxiliary module 91 via bolts 94 and 95. Likewise module 62 is connected
to auxiliary module 92 via bolts 96 and 97. Assembly 60 further comprises
detachable handrails 65 and 66 fitted. The connection regime of the handrail
modules will be described with reference to handrail 66 as handrail modules
84, 85, 86 and 87 are connected in like manner. Handrail 66 is itself
constructed from a series of co operating hand rail modules 67, 68, 69 and
                                       10

70. Hand rail module 67 is substantially P shaped and comprises a
supporting strut 71 terminating in a loop 72. Strut 71 includes openings 73
and 74 which when the handrail modules are bolted together receives
fastening bolts. Module 67 is connected to loop 75 of module 68 via bolts 76
and 77.    Module 67 is connected to stair module 61 via strut 71 which is
fastened by bolts 78 and 79. Similarly strut 80 of handrail module 68 is
secured to stair module 62 via bolts 82 and 83. Handrail modules 69 and 70
are respectively connected to stair modules 63 via bolts 98 and 99 securing
strut 112 and module 64 via bolts 110 and 111 securing strut 113. Loop 114
of handrail module 69 is connected to loop 115 of module 70 via bolts 116
and 117. In like manner handrail modules 84, 85, 86 and 87 are respectively
connected to modules 61, 62, 63 and 64. The modularity of both the stair
modules and handrail modules impart wide flexibility to individual stair
assembly design which allows for different dimensions of modules and
variations in load bearing capacity depending upon the gauge (primarily
thickness) of material used and the number of shear bolts employed.       Flat
steel lengths are preferred for fabrication of the handrail modules. Although
hand rail modules have been described as P shaped, it will be appreciated by
persons skilled in the art that various other handrail configurations are
feasible depending upon particular site or application requirements.
[0023] Figure 10 shows with corresponding numbering the assembled stair
assembly 60 of figure 9 attached to a building scaffold 90. In this case the
stair assembly is used as an approach to a walkway often found on a
building site. This shows one example of the use of the stair assembly but it
will be appreciated that it is adaptable for a variety of other applications
where permanent or temporary stairs are required such as but not limited to
building construction sites. Typically to construct a stair assembly a first
ground engaging stair module is set in position. A like second ground
engaging module is abutted against the first module and is bolted together
via aligned bolt holes in the side abutments. A third module which will form
a second stair is then attached on top of the second module via aligned bolt
holes. The next module is then attached to the third module and this process
                                       11

is repeated depending upon how many stairs are required. Hand rails are
then attached to the stair assembly as described earlier.
[0024] Although the invention has been described with reference to specific
examples, it would be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the
invention may be embodied in many other forms. Although the method and
apparatus aspects of the invention have been described with reference to
their application to modular stairs used in construction sites, it will be
appreciated that the invention has alternative applications.
[0025]    The stair modules described herein are preferably manufactured
from steel but other materials may be employed such as heavy duty plastics
materials and aluminium. One advantage of the invention described herein is
that the connecting joint methodology imparts high strength with shear bolts
which also provide high resistance to bending. Although the drawings show
double bolt holes in each connection, it will be appreciated that a variety of
bolt sizes ( length and diameters) and bolt configurations can be employed
depending upon stair loading requirements.
[0026]    It should be understood that various changes and modifications to
the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to
those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without
departing from the spirit and scope of the present subject matter and without
diminishing its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such
changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims.
                                       12

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.          A stair assembly comprising at least two stair modules; the stair
assembly comprising a first module having first and second side abutments
and spanning therebetween a stair tread having first and second ends
respectively connected to said first and second side abutments;      each side
abutment including at least one abutment surface which provides a
connecting surface to receive and retain an adjacent stair module, a second
module of said at least two stair modules including a stair tread which when
disposed adjacent the first stair module is disposed in an elevated position
relative to the stair tread of the first module, wherein the first and second
stair modules are interconnected via an auxiliary module which provides a
bearing surface for the second module; wherein, the side abutments of each
module are manufactured from angle sections; and wherein each angle
section is, when connected to form the side abutments, disposed normally to
an adjacent angle section.
2           A stair assembly according to claim 1 wherein each stair module
comprises a recess defined by each said first and second side abutments; and
wherein the recess receives and retains one of the ends of the stair tread
within.
3           A stair assembly according to claim 2 wherein each stair module
is connected to an adjacent auxiliary module via opposing bearing surfaces
on each module.
4.          A stair assembly according to claim 3 wherein each abutment
comprises a cuboid formation manufactured from the co -operating angle
sections arranged to define said recess which retains one of the ends of the
stair tread.
5.          A stair assembly according to claim 4 wherein the angle sections
have spaced apart bolt holes.
                                         1

6          A stair assembly according to claim 5 wherein first and second
endsof the stair treads are each connected to the side abutments via bolt
fasteners engaging said bolt holes
7          A stair assembly according to claim 6 wherein each side abutment
of one stair module is connected to an adjacent abutment of another module
via   one of the abutting surfaces of the auxiliary module.
8.         A stair assembly according to claim 7 wherein one stair tread of
one module is disposed in an elevated position relative to the stair tread of
an adjacent module when a plurality of stair modules are engaged.
9.         A stair assembly according to claim 8 wherein two steps are
formed using two stair modules and-one auxiliary module.
10.        A stair assembly according to claim 9 wherein each stair tread is
formed from a channel shaped section.
11.        A stair assembly according to claim 10 wherein, the side
abutments of each module are manufactured from connected lengths of
equal angle sections.
12.        A stair assembly according to claim 11 wherein, the abutments are
either square or rectangular.
13.        A stair assembly according to claim 12 wherein, each module
forming a stair tread has connected thereto a modular hand railing.
14.        A stair assembly according to claim 13 wherein, each modular
hand railing has a first end connected via at least one fastener to a stair
module and a second end terminating in a member for hand gripping.
                                       2

15.         A stair assembly according to claim 14 wherein, each modular
railing is connected to an adjacent modular hand railing.
16.         A stair assembly according to claim 15 wherein each modular
hand railing is P shaped.
17.         A stair module for use in the construction of a stair assembly
formed from at least two said stair modules, each module comprising first
and second side abutments and spanning therebetween a stair tread; the stair
tread terminating in first and second ends; the side abutments each
comprising an end wall and side walls defining a cubic formation forming
an internal space which receives and retains one end of the stair tread.
18.         A stair module according to claim 17 wherein the side abutments
include an array of openings which receive fasteners which enable fastening
of the stair treads to said side abutments and one module to an adjacent
auxiliary module.
19.         A stair module according to claim 18 wherein the side abutments
of the stair modules are manufactured from joined angle sections which
include spaced apart openings for said bolts.
20.         A stair module according to claim 19 wherein the stair tread
comprises a channel section.
21.         A stair module according to claim 1 wherein each side abutment is
capable of connection to an adjacent abutment via a horizontal surface and a
vertical surface
22.         A method of assembly of a modular stair assembly, comprising a
plurality of like modules; a first module having first and second side
abutments and spanning therebetween a stair tread having first and second
ends respectively connected to said first and second side abutments; each
side abutment including at least one abutment surface which provides a
                                       3

connecting surface to receive and retain an adjacent stair module, a second
module of said at least two stair modules including a stair tread which when
disposed adjacent the first stair module is disposed in an elevated position
relative to the stair tread of the first module;
the method comprising the steps of ;
a) providing the first stair module comprising said first and second side
abutments and spanning therebetween said stair tread;          the stair tread
comprising a channel section terminating in first and second ends; the
abutments each comprising an outer wall and side walls defining a cubic
formation which receives and retains the stair tread;_the side abutments of
each module      comprising angle sections; wherein each angle section is,
when connected, to form the side abutments disposed normally to an
adjacent angle section;
b) attaching a plurality of said modules to each other in cascading
relationship such that a first and top step of the modular stair assembly are
connected to one like side abutment and every intermediate abutment is
connected to at least two like abutments to thereby form the modular stair
assembly.
23.        A method according to claim 22 wherein the modules of
intermediate steps between a lowest step and a top step are each connected
via opposing horizontal faces of respective abutments and opposing vertical
faces of respective abutments.
                                          4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
