                                        ABSTRACT
A combined wine glass and wine bottle package includes a wine glass constructed
from molded plastic with an upper body defining an upwardly narrowed flume for
concentrating the wine bouquet, in combination with a contoured lower base defining
an annular moat surrounding a central punt. A wine bottle is sized to fit substantially,
in an inverted orientation relative to the glass, into the wine glass, with a removable
bottle cap nested within the central punt, and with an upper rim of the wine bottle
snap-fitted into a shallow groove formed in the wine bottle near a lower end thereof.
This entire package is sterile-wrapped in a sealed shrink-wrap plastic or the like. The
package can be opened when desired to permit removal of the wine bottle from the
wine glass, following by bottle opening and pouring of the contents into the wine
glass.

        COMBINED WINE GLASS AND WINE BOTTLE PACKAGE
This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No
<removed-apn> which is itself a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2010326201, the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference.
                                       DESCRIPTION
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[Para 1]       This invention relates generally to a convenient and compact
commercial unit or package comprising the combination of a wine glass with a
bottle of wine or other selected beverage contained therein, wherein the package
can be opened by the consumer and the contents of the wine bottle or the like
poured into the wine glass for consumption. The wine glass and wine bottle may
be conveniently and economically disposed after use.
[Para 2]       A commercial unit or package comprising a drinking vessel such as a
wine glass in combination with a beverage-containing bottle such as a wine glass
is, in general, known in the art. See, e.g., WO 89/05269, which discloses a wine
glass or cup positioned in an inverted orientation atop a wine bottle or the like,
with the glass or cup including an internal cap portion or segment adapted to
sealingly fit with and close the bottle. To open the bottle, the inverted glass or
cup is rotatably removed from the bottle, whereupon the bottle contents can be
poured directly into the glass or cup for consumer enjoyment. The glass or cup,
as well as the bottle, are preferably formed from a molded plastic material
selected for oxygen imperviousness, thereby safeguarding the bottle contents
against oxygen ingress and resultant degradation.
                                                 1

[Para 3]     The combination package of WO 89/05269, however, exhibits a
number of commercial drawbacks or disadvantages, whereby this combination
package has not achieved broad market acceptance or use. By way of example,
the combination package relies upon a direct sealed engagement between the
glass or cup and the beverage-containing bottle. But the glass or cup has a wine
glass shape having a receptacle supported at the upper end of an elongated stem
which projects upwardly from a relatively broad base, with the sealing cap
segment formed in the bottom of the receptacle. As a result, the elongated stem
and base of the glass or cup extend, when inverted, above the bottle to provide a
combination package that is relatively tall. This tall package, while constructed
from plastic and thus relatively lightweight, is not conducive to convenient
shipping, handling, or storage, without significant risk of bumping the glass or
cup sufficiently to break the bottle seal, and thereby allow the bottle contents to
spoil.
[Para 4]     Additional disadvantages include the non-tapering or non-flumed
geometry of the wine glass, in order to achieve relatively minimal package width.
This wine glass geometry is also more prone to spillage. Furthermore, the wine
glass has a volumetric capacity that is significantly less than the capacity of the
wine bottle, whereby the entire bottle contents cannot be poured in a single
pouring action into the wine glass. Instead, the consumer must retain the now
open bottle with residual wine therein, and wait until at least part of the wine is
consumed from the glass before the residual wine can be poured into the glass.
                                           2

[Para 5]      There exists, therefore, a significant need for an improved
commercial unit or package wherein a glass or cup, such as a wine glass, is
combined with a beverage-containing bottle, such as a wine bottle, in a compact
and stable configuration for safeguarding the bottle contents against inadvertent
opening and spoilage, while further providing for convenient bottle opening so
that the contents can be enjoyed by means of the glass or cup. The present
invention fulfills these needs and provides further related advantages.
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[Para 6]      In accordance with the invention, a combined wine glass and wine
bottle package includes a wine glass or the like constructed from molded plastic
or the like for substantially snap-fit assembly with a beverage-containing bottle,
such as a wine bottle, which can be formed from a conventional beverage
protecting glass or molded plastic material and having a conventional cap, such
as a screw cap mounted thereon. The bottle with cap is sized and shaped,
relative to the glass, to snap-fit substantially into the glass in an inverted and
stable, substantially nested orientation, to provide a compact combined
commercial unit. If desired, the glass with bottle contained therein can be sterile
- contained within a plastic shrink-wrap film or the like.
[Para 7]      The bottle with cap is sized and shaped, relative to the glass, to fit
substantially into the glass in an inverted orientation with the bottle cap nested
preferably within a shallow punt surrounded by an upstanding moat formed at
the bottom of the glass. An upper body portion of the glass defines an upwardly
                                          3

narrowed flume surrounding the inverted bottle and terminating in an upper rim
having a size and shape for substantially snap-fit reception into a matingly sized
and positioned shallow groove formed in the inverted bottle at or near the base
thereof. In a preferred form, this upper rim terminates in an arced configuration
defining a short radially outwardly protruding lip for improved seating within the
shallow bottle groove, and also for improved cooperation with shrink-wrap
components for improved locking with an inverted bottle received therein.
[Para 8]     Accordingly, in the combined or assembled state, the glass supports
and substantially contains and surrounds the bottle, with the bottle base having a
diametric size slightly larger than the mouth of the glass (as defined by the upper
rim) for normally closing the bottle mouth. The glass and bottle are
disassembled quickly and easily by lifted separation of the bottle from the glass,
followed by bottle opening in a conventional manner by removal of the bottle cap
to permit pouring of the entire bottle contents as a single serving with a single
pour action directly into the now-open and available glass for consumer
enjoyment. After use, the glass and bottle can be economically disposed.
[Para 9]     Other features and advantages of the invention will become more
apparent from the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the
accompanying drawings which illustrate, by way of example, the principles of the
invention.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[Para 10]    The accompanying drawings illustrate the invention. In such
drawings:
                                          4

[Para 11]     FIGURE 1 is a perspective view illustrating a wine glass for use in the
combined wine glass and wine bottle package of the present invention;
[Para 12]     FIGURE 2 is a vertical sectional view of the wine glass having an
inverted wine bottle received therein to provide the combined wine glass and
wine bottle package of the present invention;
[Para 13]     FIGURE 3 is an exploded sectional view similar to FIG. 2, but showing
the inverted wine bottle removed from the wine glass; and
[Para 14]     FIGURE 4 is an exploded perspective view similar to FIGS. 2 and 3,
but showing the wine bottle in an open condition with a portion of the contents
thereof poured into the wine glass.
             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[Para 15]     As shown in the exemplary drawings, a wine glass referred to
generally in FIGURE 1 by the reference numeral 10 is constructed from molded
plastic or the like and combined in a single commercial unit or package 12 (FIG.
2) with a wine bottle 14 formed preferably from glass or molded plastic or the
like. In the preferred form (FIGS. 2-4), the wine glass 10 has a unitary or one
piece construction adapted to receive and support the wine bottle 14 in an
inverted orientation substantially within the wine glass 10. If desired, the
assembled wine glass 10 and wine bottle 14 can be maintained in a unitized
commercial unit or package in a sanitary or sterilized condition as by means of a
surrounding seal in the form of a shrink-wrap film 16 (FIG. 2) or the like.
                                            5

[Para 16]     The wine glass 10 as shown best in FIG. 1 is formed with a geometric
shape that is specifically designed for enhanced enjoyment of substantially the
full range of characteristics attributable to a specific wine 17 or other selected
beverage. In this regard, the wine glass 10 can be constructed from a unitary
molded plastic material suitable for blow molding or the like, such as PET plastic.
The glass 10 includes an upper body or flume 18 of upwardly narrowing or
upwardly converging cross sectional size and shape (at the upper end thereof)
for concentrating the wine aroma or bouquet. This upper body or flume 18
terminates in an upper rim 20 defining a generally circular open mouth 22 for
the wine glass 10. This upper rim 20, in the preferred geometry, incorporates an
arced configuration to include a short outwardly radiating upper lip 21 disposed
immediately above a shallow indent 19. A noncircumferential notched indent 23
is desirably formed in the upper body or flume 18 at one side thereof, preferably
at a generally centered vertical location as shown. In addition, a lower region or
bottom of the wine glass includes a contoured lower base 24 defining an
upstanding punt 26 surrounded by a recessed annular moat 28, and
circumscribing a central component 30 such as the illustrative bowl or cup region
having a relatively flat bottom wall 32. Further details of the construction and
configuration of this glass 10 are generally found by reference to U.S. Patents
7,273,147, and D577,547, and U.S. Publications 2007/0119726 and
2007/0144932, all of which are incorporated by reference herein. Persons
skilled in the art will recognize, however, that alternative glass configurations
may be used, such as, e.g., a modified base 24 which may or may not include the
                                            6

upstanding punt 26, and/or wherein the central component 30 includes a flat
region 32 which may be in the form of a flat ring or flat step or the like
surrounding a recessed central portion.
[Para 17]     The wine bottle 14 (FIGS. 2-4) contains a selected liquid beverage
such as wine, preferably in a single serving amount suitable for commercial
packaging and sale with the single wine glass 10. Importantly, the wine bottle 14
is specially configured for assembly with the wine glass 10 to provide a stable
and secure commercial package. In addition, the wine bottle 14 may be
constructed from a gas-impervious material, such as glass, or from a suitable
molded plastic material selected for prolonged beverage shelf life without
adversely impacting the package stability or security.
[Para 18]     As shown in FIGS. 2-4, the wine bottle 14 comprises a straight-sided
body 34 which merges or blends smoothly with a lower base wall 36 and also
with an upper narrowing shoulder 38 which terminates in turn with a relatively
small-diameter neck 40 defining a mouth or pour spout 42 for the bottle
contents. A conventional cap 44 formed from plastic or metal or the like, and
including internal seal components (not shown) is adapted for sealing mounting
onto the bottle neck 40, as by means of inter-engaging threads such as the male
threads 46 shown (FIG. 4) on the exterior of the bottle neck 40 for engaging
mating female threads 48 on the cap interior. The cap 44 may also include a
base ring 50 adapted for frangible separation from the cap 44 upon cap removal
from the bottle neck 40. Persons skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate
that alternative cap forms and related seal means may be employed.
                                          7

[Para 19]     The bottle cap 44 is sized and shaped to have a substantially flat top
for substantially nested reception preferably seated within the flat-bottomed
central bowl or cup region 30 at the bottom of the wine glass 10, when the wine
bottle 14 is placed into the wine glass 10 in an inverted orientation (FIGS. 2-3).
In this position, the upstanding annular punt 26 and moat 28 as shown
circumscribe the bottle cap 44 in a manner which seats and secures the inverted
wine bottle 14 in a stable manner. The wine bottle 14 is in turn sized and
shaped for fitting when inverted and nested substantially within the wine glass
10 (FIG. 2), with the base wall 36 of the wine bottle 14 extending across and
essentially closing the glass mouth 22. Importantly, as shown best in FIG. 2, the
wine glass 14 further defines a shallow recessed groove 52 at or near the bottom
thereof, preferably at the juncture between the body 34 and the periphery of the
lower base wall 36, for substantially snap-fit reception of the upper rim 20 of the
plastic wine glass 10.
[Para 20]     Accordingly, the wine bottle 14 is secured in a safe and stable
manner, nested substantially within the volume of the wine glass 10, by means of
the seated reception of the bottle cap 44 within the central bowl or cup region 30
of the wine glass, and also by means or the snap-fit engagement of the glass rim
20 within the bottle groove 52. As previously noted, this assembled commercial
unit may, if desired, by encased within an external seal means 16 such as a
plastic shrink-wrap film 53 (FIG. 2) or the like to keep the glass clean and ready
for use, when the package is opened. When the arced upper rim 20 on the wine
glass 10 is used, the shrink-wrap film 53 is beneficially drawn into the shallow
                                           8

recess 19 just below the upper lip 21 of the glass rim 20 to assist in retaining
these components in the desired assembled relation.
[Para 21]     FIG. 3 illustrates disassembly of the inverted wine bottle 14 from the
molded plastic wine glass 10, subsequent to removal of the shrink-wrap film 53.
FIG. 4 shows the wine bottle 14 in a normal upright condition, with the bottle cap
44 removed to expose the beverage contained within the wine bottle 14. Such
beverage can be quickly and easily poured to empty the entire bottle contents
into the upright wine glass 10 (FIG. 4) for examination and drinking enjoyment.
[Para 22]     In one preferred form, in a single serving size, the wine glass 10 has
a volumetric capacity of about 350 milliliters (ml), and the wine bottle 14 has a
volumetric capacity of about 187 ml. In this regard, in the most preferred form,
and as shown in FIG. 2, the wine bottle 14 includes sufficient unoccupied volume
or "head" space, whereby the level of the beverage contained therein is at least
slightly below the upper rim 20 of the wine glass 10, when the wine bottle 14 is
assembled in an inverted orientation within the wine glass 10.
[Para 23]     While the glass 10 and bottle 14 of the present invention are
described in connection with a preferred beverage, namely, wine, persons skilled
in the art will recognize and appreciate that the commercial unit or package of
the present invention may be used with virtually any liquid beverage including
but not limited to water and soft drinks sold in a single serving size.
[Para 24]     A variety of further modifications and improvements in and to the
commercial unit or package 12 of the present invention will be apparent to those
persons skilled in the art. For example, when the wine bottle 14 is constructed
                                            9

from a molded plastic material, persons skilled in the art will recognize and
appreciate that the glass 10 can be constructed from molded plastic or a glass
material as desired. As another alternative, persons skilled in the art will
understand that alternative cap and seal means may be employed, with the top of
such cap/seal means being relatively flat for substantially nested reception into
the relatively flat central bowl 32 circumscribed by the punt 26, when the bottle
14 is received into the glass 10 in an inverted orientation. Finally, while the
foregoing description and accompanying drawings show the bottle 14 inverted
for reception into the glass 10, persons skilled in the art will recognize that an
inverse construction is also contemplated, namely, that the glass 10 may be
inverted over an upright bottle 14. Accordingly, no limitation on the invention is
intended by way of the foregoing description and accompanying drawings,
except as set forth in the appended claims.
                                          10

                               What is claimed is:
[Claim 1]         In combination:
       a beverage glass having an upper rim defining an open mouth, and a
contoured lower base defining a relatively flat central component; and
       a bottle containing a liquid beverage and having an upper end defining a
normally closed mouth pour spout and a lower end having an external groove
formed therein, said bottle being normally received within said beverage glass in
a generally inverted orientation relative to said glass with said normally closed
mouth seated within said central component, and with said glass upper rim being
received into said external groove on said bottle.
[Claim 2]         The combination of claim 1 further comprising a seal member for
sealing said bottle within said glass, said seal member being removable to permit
access to and removal of said bottle from said glass, and to permit opening of
said bottle and pouring of the liquid beverage therein into said glass.
[Claim 3]         The combination of claim 2 wherein said seal member comprises
a shrink-wrap film extending about said bottle and said glass.
[Claim 4]         The combination of claim 1 wherein said glass is formed from an
at least partially transparent material.
                                           11

[Claim 5]       The combination of claim 1 wherein said glass is constructed
from a molded plastic material.
[Claim 6]       The combination of claim 1 wherein said glass comprises an
upper generally shell-shaped and transparent body terminating at said upper rim
defining said mouth, and a lower base at a lower end of said upper body, said
glass further having an external noncircumferential notched indent formed
therein and defining an upwardly presented exterior shelf having a size and
shape for convenient fingertip grasping.
[Claim 7]       The combination of claim 6 wherein said shell-shaped body
defines an upwardly narrowing tapered flume terminating at said upper rim.
[Claim 8]       The combination of claim 7 wherein said upper rim is defined by
an arced configuration having a radially outwardly extending upper lip disposed
above a shallow outwardly presented recess.
[Claim 9]       The combination of claim 6 wherein said lower base defines a
recessed annular moat surrounding an upstanding central punt circumscribing
said central component.
[Claim 10]      The combination of claim 1 further including a bottle cap for
normally closing said bottle mouth pour spout, said cap having a relatively flat
                                          12

topped configuration for stable seating within said central component when said
bottle is mounted within said glass in said generally inverted orientation.
[Claim 11]        In combination:
       a beverage glass formed from a molded plastic material and having an
upper rim defining an open mouth, and a contoured lower base defining a
recessed annular moat surrounding an upstanding central punt circumscribing a
relatively flat central component;
       a bottle containing a liquid beverage and having an upper end defining a
bottle cap for normally closing a mouth pour spout and a lower end having an
external groove formed therein, said bottle being normally received within said
beverage glass in a generally inverted orientation relative to said glass with said
bottle cap seated within said central component, and with said glass upper rim
being received into said external groove on said bottle; and
       a seal member for sealing said bottle within said glass, said seal member
being removable to permit access to and removal of said bottle from said glass,
and to permit opening of said bottle and pouring of the liquid beverage therein
into said glass.
[Claim 1 2]       The combination of claim 11 wherein said seal member comprises
a shrink-wrap film extending about said bottle and said glass.
                                          13

[Claim 1 3]      The combination of claim 12 wherein said upper rim has a
generally arced configuration having a radially outwardly extending upper lip
disposed above a shallow outwardly presented recess, said seal member
including means disposed within said recess.
[Claim 1 4]      The combination of claim 11 wherein said glass is formed from
an at least partially transparent material.
[Claim 1 5]      The combination of claim 11 wherein said glass comprises an
upper generally shell-shaped and transparent body terminating at said upper rim
defining said mouth, and a lower base at a lower end of said upper body, said
glass further having an external noncircumferential notched indent formed
therein and defining an upwardly presented exterior shelf having a size and
shape for convenient fingertip grasping.
[Claim 1 6]      The combination of claim 15 wherein said shell-shaped body
defines an upwardly narrowing tapered flume terminating at said upper rim.
[Claim 17]       The combination of claim 11 wherein the liquid beverage
comprises wine.
                                            14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
