ABSTRACT
The disclosed device is a paint brush handle 1 with a aluminum
thread 2 inserted into a slot carved into the top centre of
the handle which lows a extention handle with an outer thread
that fits the dimension of the inner thread inserted into the
handle. The bottom of the handle 3 has a slight curve.
                               1


                                               AUSTRALIA
                                            Patents Act 1990
                                       COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                          INNOVATION PATENT
                                            PAINT BRUSH HANDLE
                                                       WITH
                                              INTERNAL THREAD
The following statement is a full disenption of this invention including the best method ofperforming
it known to me.

                                                                1
5,
   Formany years the paint brush handle has been without a thread inserted into the top of a paint brush handle which an
extention handle can be screwed into the thread which allows easy access to painting difficalt and high areas without the aid of
a ladder, and to avoid over stretching. The invention has been specially devised in order to make painting work easy when
working at diffficalt angles and hard to reach areas.The handle is specially designed to allow a slot to be carved into the top of
the handle to insert the aluminum thread inside the slot. The opening for the th read can be carved into any other suitable part
of the handle, the thread can be inserted to any other suitable shape or size of a paint handle handle.
 10.
The paint brash handle is preferably made from wood, the thread is preferably made from aluminum, however other materials
 can be used.for example metalor plastic or any other suitable material.The handle itself may also be made from any suitable
fexible material.
 15.
The thread is preferably made as a separate part which is inserted into a slot carved into the centre of the top of the paint brush
 handle. The thread when inserted into the slot is preferably inserted to sit flush to the rim on top of the handle, however the
 thread piece may extrude the rim slighty above the top of the handle. The thread can be directly carved into the top of the
 handle to process a wooden thread which makes the handle as one part.
 20
The handle is specially a paint brush handle, however can be universal asa dusting brush. The handle itself may be attached to
 a sanding block or scrapper or any other suitable painting tool
The invention may be better understood with reference to the photograths of the embodiment of the invention which
 $
 Photograth 1 is elevation of a paint brush handle.
 10
 Photograth 2 shows a internal aluminum threat inserted into the top of the handle.
 15
 Photograth 3 shows a slight curve on the bottom of the handle.
 20
 Photograth 4 shows a side view of the handle.
 25
 Photograth 5 shows a view of the back side of the handle.
The device shown is a paint brush handle with an aluminum thread inserted inside the top of the paint brush handle.
                                                                  T

                                                 2
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
5.
1. Apaint brush handle with an aluminum thread inserted into the top of the paint brush handle.
10
2. A paint brush handle with a thread according to any claim 1 the handle and thread is made from
wood and aluminum.
15
3. A paint brush handle with a thread according to claims 1- 2 the material contains wood and
aluminum.
Optional Methods.
The handle and thread can be made from any suitable material to suit the device.
20
Apaint brush handle with a alumimum thread inserted into the top of the handle. A paint brush
handle with a thread substantially as herein before described with reference to photograths 1 - 2 of
the accompanying photograths.
Name of Applicants (s)
Ronald Phillip Eslick
Leslie William Eslick                                            Date 11 - 1 - 2018

                 Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                  <removed-apn>
              There is one page of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
