                                            ABSTRACT
A medical device deployment handle comprises a first portion suitable for gripping by a user;
a first actuation member operable to be actuated relative to the first portion; a second
actuation member operable to be actuated relative to the first portion and relative to the first
actuation member; and a cover operably coupled to the first actuation member and
transitionable between a first position and a second position such that the first actuation
member is actuatable to cause the cover to transition from the first position to the second
position, wherein in the first position the cover restricts access to the second actuation
member, and wherein in the second position the second actuation member is accessible.
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

          6/9
Itj
    '0'
        Vt,,  1

                                          DEPLOYMENT HANDLE FOR A MEDICAL
                                               DEVICE DEPLOYMENT SYSTEM
                                                        BACKGROUND
Related Application
       [0001]               This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
             2015241142, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Field
       [0002]               The present disclosure relates to medical device deployment systems. More
             particularly, the present disclosure relates to a handle for a medical device deployment
             system.
Discussion of the Related Art
       [0003]               There is a need for advanced devices, tools, systems and methods used for the
             endoluminal treatment of aortic diseases. In particular, there remains a need for
             deployment systems that can accommodate increasingly complex modes of deployment
             of a device, such as steering, reconstraining, multiple stage deployment, multiple device
             deployment, while promoting ease of use to the clinician.
                                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
       [0004]               In a first aspect, the invention provides a medical device deployment handle
             comprising: a first portion suitable for gripping by a user; a first actuation member
             operable to be actuated relative to the first portion; a second actuation member operable
             to be actuated relative to the first portion and relative to the first actuation member; and a
             cover operably coupled to the first actuation member and transitionable between a first
             position and a second position such that the first actuation member is actuatable to cause
             the cover to transition from the first position to the second position, wherein in the first
             position the cover restricts access to the second actuation member, and wherein in the
             second position the second actuation member is accessible.
      [0005]                In a second aspect, the invention provides a medical device deployment handle
             that is transitionable between a first state and a second state, the medical device
             deployment handle comprising: a first portion suitable for gripping by a user in both the
             first state and the second state; a first actuation member operable to be actuated relative
             to the first portion in the first state; a second actuation member operable to be actuated
                                                                1
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

             relative to the first portion and relative to the first actuation member in the second state;
             and a cover that restricts access to the second actuation member in the first state, the
             cover being operably coupled to the first actuation member such that the first actuation
             member can be actuated to cause the deployment handle to transition from the first state
             to the second state, wherein in the second state the second actuation member is
             accessible.
       [0006]               In one embodiment, there is provided a deployment handle for an introducer
             assembly, said handle comprising: a first actuating mechanism for actuating an
             implantable device deployment arrangement, the first actuating mechanism including a
             first helical guide and configured to transition the deployment arrangement from a first
             state suitable for endoluminal delivery of an implantable device and a second state
             allowing deployment of the implantable device; a second actuating mechanism for
             actuating a blocking arrangement between a first state in which access to one or more
             functions of the handle is blocked and a second state in which the access to one or more
             functions of the handle is unblocked; and a knob operatively coupled to both of the first
             and second actuating mechanisms to cause concurrent operation of both of the first and
             second actuating mechanisms in response to actuation of the knob, the first actuating
             mechanism being movable with the knob about a rotational axis.
       [0007]               In a third aspect, the invention provides a medical device deployment handle
             comprising: a first actuating mechanism for actuating a first implantable device
             deployment component; a first knob; a cover; a second actuating mechanism for
             actuating the cover relative to the second actuating mechanism and causing the
             deployment handle to transition from a first state in which the first knob is concealed by
             the cover to a second state in which the cover has been actuated such that the first knob
             is revealed, the first knob being distinct from the first and second actuating mechanisms
             and being configured to actuate a second implantable device deployment component;
             and a second knob operatively coupled to each of the first and second actuating
             mechanisms to cause concurrent actuation of both of the first and second actuating
             mechanisms in response to actuation of the second knob, the first and second knobs
             being independently actuatable such that the first and second knobs can be actuated
             relative to one another.
      [0008]                In a fourth aspect, the invention provides a deployment handle assembly
             comprising: a constraining sheath; a displacement member for retracting the constraining
             sheath from covering an implantable medical device; a first knob for actuating a
             component of the handle assembly; and a second knob that is actuatable to cause the
             handle to transition from a first state in which the first knob is inaccessible to a second
                                                               2
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

             state in which the first knob is accessible, the second knob being actuatable to cause the
             displacement member to retract the constraining sheath from covering the implantable
             medical device, the first and second knobs being independently actuatable such that the
             first and second knobs can be actuated relative to one another.
       [0009]               In a fifth aspect, the invention provides a method of deploying a medical device
             comprising: providing a deployment handle operably coupled to the medical device, the
             deployment handle including a first actuation member, a second actuation member, and
             a cover operably coupled to the first actuation member and disposed over the second
             actuation member in a first position such that the second actuation member inaccessible;
             advancing the medical device to a treatment region; and actuating the first actuation
             member to transition the cover to a position where the second actuation member is
             accessible.
                                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
       [0010]               The accompanying drawings are included to provide a further understanding of
             the present disclosure and are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification,
             illustrate embodiments of the present disclosure, and together with the description serve
             to explain the principles of the present disclosure.
      [0011]                FIGS. 1 is an exploded perspective view of an introducer assembly in accordance
             with the present disclosure;
      [0012]                FIGS. 2-8 illustrate various states of a handle of the introducer assembly of FIG.
              1;
      [0013]                FIGS. 9A and 9B are top and front elevational views, respectively, of a handle of
             the introducer assembly in a first state.
       [0014]               FIGS. 9C and 9D are top and front elevational views, respectively, of a handle of
             the introducer assembly in a second state.
       [0015]               FIG. 10 is a perspective view of a front portion of the introducer assembly;
       [0016]               FIG. 11 is a cross-sectional view of a front portion of the introducer assembly;
       [0017]               FIG. 12 is a perspective view of a rear portion of the introducer assembly;
       [0018]               FIG. 13 is a cross sectional view of a rear portion of the introducer assembly; and
       [0019]               FIG. 14 illustrates perspective views of a handle and sheath of an introducer
             assembly decoupled from each other.
                                                                3
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

                                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
       [0020]               Introducer assemblies for endoluminal delivery of vascular implants in accordance
             with various embodiments are disclosed for allowing actuation or deployment of a
             vascular implant, while forcing a particular order of operation of the handle by a clinician.
       [0021]               In various embodiments, an introducer assembly includes a first actuating
             mechanism for actuating a constraining sheath between a first state releasably
             constraining a vascular implant and a second state allowing deployment of the vascular
             implant; a second actuating mechanism for actuating a blocking mechanism between a
             blocked state for blocking one or more other knobs and/or other functions of the handle
             and an unblocked state for allowing operation of the one or more other knobs and/or
             other functions of the handle; and an operating knob operatively coupled to both of the
             first and second actuating mechanisms for concurrent operation of both of the first and
             second actuating mechanisms in response to actuation of the operating knob. An
             example of such an introducer assembly is generally indicated at 100 in FIG 1. The
             introducer assembly 100 includes a sheath 200 and a handle 300. The introducer
             assembly 100 includes a constraint (not shown) for releasably constraining a vascular
             implant toward a distal end 210 of the sheath 200. The constraint has a first state
             releasably constraining an expandable implant toward a delivery configuration suitable for
             endoluminal delivery, and a second state released to allow expansion of the implant from
             the delivery configuration toward a deployed configuration. The handle includes an
             actuating member operatively coupled to the constraint for actuating the constraint
             between the first state and the second state.
      [0022]                In various embodiments, the constraint can include a film sleeve that extends
             around the implant. In the first state, opposite portions or edges of the film sleeve can be
             releasably held or sewn together by an elongated member, such as a wire or fiber, to
             maintain the implant in the delivery configuration. In such embodiments, the sleeve can
             be opened, or otherwise disrupted, by displacing, unstitching or otherwise disengaging
             the elongated member from the film sleeve to allow expansion of the implant. Further
             details of such constraining sleeves can be found, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 6,352,561
             issued to Leopold, et al., and U.S. Pat. No. 6,551,350 issued to Thornton, et al., the
             content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In such embodiments,
             the actuating member can be coupled to the elongated member to release or open the
             film sleeve from the first state to the second state.
       [0023]               In other embodiments, the constraint can include an axially displaceable tube,
             wherein such a tube can be formed from a wrapped film tube or an extruded polymer.
                                                            4
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

              Indeed, in various embodiments, the sheath itself could be such a constraint, wherein the
             sheath in the first state extends over the implant to retain the implant toward the delivery
             configuration. The sheath can be displaced toward the second state to allow expansion
             of the implant from the delivery configuration. In such embodiments, the actuating
             member can be coupled to the sheath so that the sheath is displaced with the actuating
             member between the first state and second state.
       [0024]               Thus, the actuating member can be configured for deploying an implant from
             either type of constraint described above, or other similarly actuated constraint
             mechanisms known in the art. The latter type of integrated sheath and constraint are
             described below in connection with the illustrated embodiments.
       [0025]               Referring to FIGS. 9A-9D, the handle 300 includes an actuating member 310
             coupled to the sheath 200 for actuating the sheath 200 between the first state and second
             state in response to linear displacement of the actuating member 310 between a first
             position and a second position, respectively. The handle 300 includes a first actuating
             mechanism 320 for displacing the actuating member 310 between the first position and
             the second position.
       [0026]               The handle 300 includes a main knob 330 for operating the first actuating
             mechanism 320. Described further below, the handle 300 can include one or more
             additional knobs to operate one or more additional separate handle functions. The
             handle 300 includes a cover 350 operable for movement between a covered state
             covering the one or more additional knobs 340, 342, 344 as shown in FIGS. 9A and 9B,
             and an uncovered state allowing access to the one or more additional knobs 340, 342,
             344 as shown in FIGS. 9C and 9D. The handle 300 includes a second actuating
             mechanism 360 for displacing the cover 350 between the covered state and the
             uncovered state. The main knob 330 is operatively coupled to both of the first actuating
             mechanism 320 and the second actuating mechanism 360 to cause displacement of both
             the actuating member 310 between the first state and the second state and the cover 350
             between the covered state and the uncovered state, respectively, in response to
             corresponding operation of the main knob 330.
      [0027]                In various embodiments, an actuating knob of the handle can be configured for
             rotation about an axis, and an actuating member for actuating one or more functions of
             the handle can be configured for displacement along and/or about the axis between
             operating states in response to corresponding rotation of the actuating knob. For
             example, as shown in FIGS 9A-9D, the main knob 330 is rotatable about a rotational axis
             332. The actuating member 310 is movable linearly along the axis 332 between the first
             state and second state. Referring to FIGS. 10 and 11, the first actuating mechanism 320
                                                            5
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

             includes a first helical guide 322 movable with the main knob 330 about the axis 332.
             The first actuating mechanism 320 includes a first follower 324 on the actuating member
             310 engaged with the first helical guide 322 to cause linear movement of the actuating
             member 310 between the first state and second state in response to corresponding
             rotation of the main knob 330. The main knob 330 includes a receiving tube 334
             receiving at least a portion of the actuating member 310 therethrough as the actuating
             member 310 moves between the first state and second state. In a number of
             embodiments, for example as shown in FIGS. 10-11, the first helical guide 322 is a first
             helical slot 326 formed along an inner surface 336 of the receiving tube 334 and the first
             follower 324 includes an outwardly extending first pin 338 engaged with the helical slot
             326.
       [0028]               Referring to FIG. 12, the second actuating mechanism 360 includes a second
             helical guide 362 that translates rotation of the main knob 330 to axial displacement of the
             cover 350. In one embodiment, the second helical guide 362 comprises a second helical
             slot 368 formed along an outer surface of a spindle 364, the spindle 364 being aligned
             with the axis 332 (FIG. 9A-9D) of the main knob 330. The second actuating mechanism
             360 also includes a longitudinal slot 366 formed along the main knob 330. In various
             embodiments, the slot 366 is parallel with the axis 332 of the main knob 330. The second
             actuating mechanism 360 includes a second pin 363 extending from the cover 350 and
             slidably engaged with the longitudinal slot 366. As best shown in FIG. 13, the second
             actuating mechanism 360 includes a third pin 352 extending from the cover 350 and
             engaging the second helical slot 368 to cause displacement of the cover 350 between the
             covered state and the uncovered state in response to corresponding rotation of the main
             knob 330.
      [0029]                The actuating mechanisms of the handle can be configured so that functions,
             such as displacements of the actuating member and cover, are delayed or accelerated
             relative to each other during operation of the main knob. For example, the first helical
             guide can include a flat or reduced or increased pitch to cause a delay, decrease or
             increase, respectively, in the displacement of the actuating mechanism relative to the
             cover in response to operation of the main knob.
      [0030]                In various embodiments, the handle can include a ratchet mechanism that allows
             actuation of an actuating knob in a first direction and prevents rotation of the actuating
             knob in an opposite second direction. For example, the handle can include a ratchet
             mechanism having a gear rack on the main knob and a fixed pawl that engages the gear
             rack to allow rotation of the main knob in a first direction as the pawl slips along teeth of
             the gear rack and that limits rotation of the main knob in an opposite second direction as
                                                             6
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

             the pawl catches a tooth on the gear rack. The pawl can be a spring-loaded machined
             component or alternatively, the pawl can be formed from spring leaf metal. The pawl can
             be configured to generate audible noise and/or at least provide tactile feedback as the
             pawl slips along the teeth of the gear rack. Optionally, one or more of the teeth of the
             gear rack can be sized and/or shaped differently from the other teeth of the gear rack to
             cause a distinct change in sound, e.g. pitch, or tactile feedback, e.g. clicks, resistance,
             that indicates to a clinician when a certain step in the deployment is achieved.
      [0031]                In use, rotation of the main knob 330 about the axis 332 simultaneously operates
             the first actuating mechanism 320 to cause displacement of the actuating member 310 in
             a first direction, as indicated at arrow "a" in FIG. 2, and the second actuating mechanism
             360 to cause displacement of the cover 350 in a second direction, as indicated at arrow
             "b"in FIG. 2. Displacement of the actuating member 310 in the first direction "a" causes
             corresponding displacement of the sheath 200 to allow expansion of the expandable
             implant 400 outwardly from the delivery configuration. The expandable vascular implant
             can be a self-expanding stent graft or, alternatively, a balloon-expanded implant.
              Displacement of the cover 350 in the second direction "b"can reveal one or more
             additional knobs each for operating one or more other handle functions.
      [0032]                For example, as illustrated in FIG. 3, a second knob 340 is revealed after
             displacement of the cover 350 for operating a constraining mechanism for selectively
             constraining at least a portion of the implant to allow positioning of the device prior to
             committing to a full deployment of the implant at the treatment site. A detailed description
             of constraining mechanisms, construction and methods of use of such constraining
             mechanisms are provided in co-pending application U.S. Patent Application Publication
              US 2010/0049293 Al (Zukowski et al.), the content of which is incorporated herein by
             reference in its entirety.
       [0033]               In various embodiments, the handle can be configured so that the cover can be
             displaced in steps to reveal additional knobs each for operating one or more other handle
             functions.
       [0034]               Continued rotation of the main knob 330, for example, as illustrated in FIG. 4,
             causes further displacement of the cover 350 in the second direction "b"to reveal a third
             knob 342, as shown in FIG. 5. The third knob 342 can be configured to actuate one or
             more other handle functions, such as displacing fibers, wires, levers, gears or any
             combination thereof of a steering mechanism (not shown) for selectively bending or
             otherwise steering at least a portion of the implant 400 during deployment.
       [0035]               Continued rotation of the main knob 330, for example, as illustrated in FIG. 6,
             causes further displacement of the cover 350 in the second direction "b"to reveal a fourth
                                                               7
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

             knob 344, as shown in FIGS. 7-8. The fourth knob 344 can be configured to actuate one
             or more other handle functions, such as displacing fibers, wires, levers, gears or any
             combination thereof of a release mechanism. In one embodiment, a release mechanism
             can include a lock wire frictionally engaged with the implant to maintain a releasable
             coupling between the implant and the handle. The lock wire can be operatively coupled
             to the fourth knob to be displaced relative to and disengaged from the implant in response
             to actuation of the fourth knob. For example, the lock wire can be wound about a spindle
             portion of the fourth knob during rotation of the fourth knob. Winding of the lock wire
             about the spindle displaces the lock wire relative to the implant until the lock wire
             disengages from the implant.
       [0036]               In various embodiments, handle functions, such as steering, re-constraining, and
             deploying of an expandable implant can be operated by actuating the one or more knobs
             of the handle, while maintaining the implant at an intermediate configuration within a
             secondary or intermediate sheath or sleeve, wherein the intermediate configuration is
             larger than the delivery configuration and smaller than a deployed configuration. For
             example, the introducer assembly can include a secondary sheath for limiting expansion
             of the implant to an intermediate configuration after displacement of the constraining
             sheath. The secondary sheath can include a flexible film constraining sleeve that extends
             over and releasably constrains the implant. An elongated coupling member, such as a
             fiber or wire, stitches opposing edges or sides of the constraining sleeve together to
             releasably constrain the implant toward the intermediate configuration. The constraining
             sleeve can be opened by de-coupling the coupling member from the constraining sleeve.
              Further details of materials and general construction of constraining sleeves can be found
             in US 6,352,561 to Leopold et al.
       [0037]               Referring to FIG. 14, the sheath 200 and handle 300 can be releasably coupled to
             each other for subsequent re-use of the sheath 200 as an introducer for other surgical
             implements after deployment of the device and de-coupling of the handle from the
             introducer. For example, the introducer and handle can be threaded or keyed with a slot
             pin arrangement to form a releasable coupling that allows separation of the handle after
             deployment of the device and subsequent re-use or re-purposing of the introducer for
             introducing other surgical implements, such as other devices, tools, probes, cameras,
             drugs and saline.
       [0038]               It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and
             variations can be made in the present disclosure without departing from the spirit or
             scope of the present disclosure. Thus, it is intended that the present disclosure cover the
                                                                8
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

             modifications and variations of this present disclosure provided they come within the
             scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.
       [0039]               It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
             reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
             common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
      [0040]                In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
             where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication,
             the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an
             inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
             presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                                9
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.           A medical device deployment handle comprising:
              a first portion suitable for gripping by a user;
              a first actuation member operable to be actuated relative to the first portion;
              a second actuation member operable to be actuated relative to the first portion and
relative to the first actuation member; and
              a cover operably coupled to the first actuation member and transitionable between a
first position and a second position such that the first actuation member is actuatable to
cause the cover to transition from the first position to the second position, wherein in the first
position the cover restricts access to the second actuation member, and wherein in the
second position the second actuation member is accessible.
2.           The handle of claim 1, wherein when the cover is in the first position the second
actuation member is concealed by the cover, and wherein when the cover is transitioned to
the second position the second actuation member is revealed.
3.           The handle of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein when the cover is in the first position the
second actuation member is inoperable, and wherein when the cover is in the second
position the second actuation member is operable.
4.           The handle of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the first actuation member is rotatable
about a longitudinal axis of the handle.
5.           The handle of claim 4, wherein the second actuation member is rotatable about the
longitudinal axis of the handle.
6.           The handle of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the cover translates along a
longitudinal axis of the handle when transitioning from the first position to the second
position.
7.           The handle of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the cover rotates about a longitudinal
axis of the handle when transitioning from the first position to the second position.
                                                        10
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

8.           The handle of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the cover rotates about and translates
along a longitudinal axis of the handle when transitioning from the first position to the second
position.
9.           The handle of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the first actuation member is operably
coupled to a constraining sheath that surrounds and constrains a medical device in a
delivery configuration such that actuating the first actuation member causes concurrent
operation of both of the cover and constraining sheath.
10.          The handle of claim 9, wherein the cover and the constraining sheath are actuated
such that they translate along a longitudinal axis of the handle.
11.          The handle of claim 10, wherein the cover and the constraining sheath translate
along the longitudinal axis of the handle in opposing directions.
12.          A medical device deployment handle that is transitionable between a first state and a
second state, the medical device deployment handle comprising:
             a first portion suitable for gripping by a user in both the first state and the second
state;
             a first actuation member operable to be actuated relative to the first portion in the first
state;
             a second actuation member operable to be actuated relative to the first portion and
relative to the first actuation member in the second state; and
             a cover that restricts access to the second actuation member in the first state, the
cover being operably coupled to the first actuation member such that the first actuation
member can be actuated to cause the deployment handle to transition from the first state to
the second state, wherein in the second state the second actuation member is accessible.
13.          The deployment handle of claim 12, wherein the second actuation member is
inoperable in the first state.
14.          The deployment handle of claim 12 or claim 13, wherein the first actuation member is
inoperable in the second state.
15.          A method of deploying a medical device comprising:
                                                       11
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

              providing a deployment handle operably coupled to the medical device, the
deployment handle including a first actuation member, a second actuation member, and a
cover operably coupled to the first actuation member and disposed over the second
actuation member in a first position such that the second actuation member is inaccessible;
              advancing the medical device to a treatment region; and
              actuating the first actuation member to transition the cover to a position where the
second actuation member is accessible.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein actuating the first actuation member includes rotating
the first actuation member about a longitudinal axis of the deployment handle.
17.          The method of claim 15 or claim 16, wherein actuating the second actuation member
includes rotating the second actuation member about a longitudinal axis of the deployment
handle.
18.          The method of any one of claims 15-17, wherein actuating the first actuation member
causes the cover to translate along a longitudinal axis of the deployment handle to the
second position.
19.          The method of any one of claims 15-18, wherein the first actuation member is
operably coupled to a constraining sheath that surrounds and constrains the medical device
in a delivery configuration, and wherein actuating the first actuation member causes
concurrent operation of both of the cover and constraining sheath.
20.          The method of claim 19, wherein the cover and the constraining sheath move in
opposing directions during actuation of the first actuation member.
21.          A medical device deployment handle comprising:
              a first actuating mechanism for actuating a first implantable device deployment
component;
              a first knob;
              a cover;
              a second actuating mechanism for actuating the cover relative to the second
actuating mechanism and causing the deployment handle to transition from a first state in
which the first knob is concealed by the cover to a second state in which the cover has been
                                                     12
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

actuated such that the first knob is revealed, the first knob being distinct from the first and
second actuating mechanisms and being configured to actuate a second implantable device
deployment component; and
              a second knob operatively coupled to each of the first and second actuating
mechanisms to cause concurrent actuation of both of the first and second actuating
mechanisms in response to actuation of the second knob, the first and second knobs being
independently actuatable such that the first and second knobs can be actuated relative to
one another.
22.          The medical device deployment handle of claim 21, wherein the cover is displaceable
relative to the first knob by actuating the second actuating mechanism.
23.          The medical device deployment handle of claim 21, wherein the cover is displaceable
relative to the second actuating mechanism such that the cover conceals the first knob in the
first state, and such that the cover is displaced in the second state to expose the first knob.
24.          The medical device deployment handle of claim 21, wherein the second knob is
actuatable to cause the transition from the first state to the second state.
25.          A deployment handle assembly comprising:
              a constraining sheath;
              a displacement member for retracting the constraining sheath from covering an
implantable medical device;
              a first knob for actuating a component of the handle assembly; and
              a second knob that is actuatable to cause the handle to transition from a first state in
which the first knob is inaccessible to a second state in which the first knob is accessible, the
second knob being actuatable to cause the displacement member to retract the constraining
sheath from covering the implantable medical device, the first and second knobs being
independently actuatable such that the first and second knobs can be actuated relative to
one another.
26.          The deployment handle of claim 25, wherein actuation of the second knob causes
the handle to transition from the first state to second state concurrently with causing the
displacement member to retract.
                                                    13
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

27.          The deployment handle of claim 25 or claim 26, wherein in the first state the
constraining sheath covers and constrains the implantable medical device, and wherein in
the second state the medical device is at least partially uncovered by the constraining
sheath.
28.          The deployment handle of any one of claims 25-27, wherein the first knob is
concealed in the first state and revealed in the second state.
                                                 14
10207928_1 (GHMatters) P103982.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
