                                              ABSTRACT
   The present invention relates to a switch of a device having a longitudinal device axis. The
   switch comprises a switching element, a hollow body defining an interior cavity in which the
 5 switching element is movably disposed along the longitudinal device axis. The switching
   element defines a first position along the longitudinal device axis and a second position along
   the longitudinal axis, the second position being different from the first position. The switch
   further comprises a biasing element imparting an adjustable biasing force to the switching
   element to place the switching element in one of the first position and the second position
.0 until an external force imparted to the switching element along the longitudinal device axis
   exceeds the biasing force thereby causing the switching element to move to the other one of
   the first position and the second position. The switch also comprises an electrically
   conductive contact coupled to the switching element and defining a first switching state when
   the switching element is in the first position and a second switching state when the switching
.5 element is in the second position.

1/17
   FIG. 1

                                                   1
                                          FORCE SWITCH
            The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
   2014277865 in the name of Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc., the content of which is
   incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 5 Technical Field
            The present invention lies in the field of switches, in particular, a force switch.
   The device can be used along with any tool in which a particular longitudinal force needs
   to be overcome prior to reaching a given detected force.
            In various applications, a compressible material is compressed between two
10 surfaces for modification of the material in some way after being compressed. The
   material can be compressed too little, too much, or in an acceptable range of compression.
   It would be beneficial to provide an electrical switch that can indicate when the
   acceptable minimum compression force has been exceeded. It would further benefit if the
   switch actuates over a small gap and is longitudinally in-line with the device in which the
15 switch is incorporated. It would also be beneficial if the minimum force setting of the
   switch could be pre-set to given force values.
   Summary
            The invention overcomes one or more of the above-noted and other deficiencies of
   the prior art arrangements by providing an electronic switch that actuates over a small gap
20 (on the order of 25 to 200 micrometers), is longitudinally in-line with the device in which
   the switch is incorporated, and switches dependent upon a longitudinally expanding
   external force that can be pre-set over a given floor force value.
            A characteristic of the force switch described herein is that the longitudinal forces
   that the force switch can withstand are significantly higher than that existed in the past.
25 With a force switch having approximately a 6 mm diameter, for example, an
   approximately 5 to 8 pound longitudinally pulling force changes the switch state while, at
   the same time, being able to withstand almost 300 pounds of longitudinal pulling or
   compressive force. This is an almost twenty-fold difference.

                                                    2
             There are many uses for the force switch in various different technology areas. In
   a first exemplary area of technology, the force switch can be used to measure compressive
   forces imparted upon tissue by medical devices. In many medical procedures, tissue is
   compressed between two surfaces before a medical device is caused to make a change in
 5 the compressed tissue. If the tissue is compressed too little, then the change sought to be
   effected might not be sufficient. If the tissue is, on the other hand, compressed too much,
   the change sought to be effected might actually destroy the area of interest. When
   compressing such tissue, there are measurable force ranges that fall between these two
   extremes. Knowing the "safe" force range can allow the user to select a pre-tensioning of
10 the force switch to change its state (i.e., indicate to the user the pre-tensioned force has
   been exceeded) within the "safe" range of that tissue.
             The force switch described herein can be constructed in a customized way to
   have the state-changing pre-tension match the "safe" range of the tissue to be operated
   upon.
15           One type of medical device that is used to change a state of tissue is a medical
   stapling device. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (a Johnson & Johnson company)
   manufactures and sells such stapling devices. Circular stapling devices manufactured by
   Ethicon are referred to under the trade names PROXIMATE @ PPH, CDH, and ILS.
   Linear staplers manufactured by Ethicon under the trade names CONTOUR and
20 PROXIMATE also can use the force switch. In each of these exemplary staplers, tissue is
   compressed between a staple cartridge and an anvil and, when the staples are ejected, the
   compressed tissue is also cut. In this specific example, the tissue can be compressed too
   little (where blood color is still present in the tissue, too much (where tissue is crushed),
   or just right (where the tissue is blanched). Staples delivered have a given length and the
25 cartridge and anvil need to be at a given distance so that the staples close upon firing.
   Therefore, these staplers have devices indicating the relative distance between the two
   planes and whether or not this distance is within the staple length firing range. However,
   these staplers do not have any kind of active compression indicator that would also
   optimize the force acting upon the tissue that is to be stapled. The force switch described

                                                    3
   herein provides such a feature. Some exemplary procedures in which these staplers could
   use the force switch include colon dissection and gastric bypass surgeries.
            According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a switch of a
   device having a longitudinal device axis, the switch comprising: a switching element; a
 5 hollow body defining an interior cavity in which the switching element is movably
   disposed along the longitudinal device axis to define: a first position along the
   longitudinal device axis; and a second position along the longitudinal axis, the second
   position being different from the first position; a biasing element imparting an adjustable
   biasing force to the switching element to place the switching element in one of the first
10 position and the second position until an external force imparted to the switching element
   along the longitudinal device axis exceeds the biasing force thereby causing the switching
   element to move to the other one of the first position and the second position; and an
   electrically-conductive contact coupled to the switching element and defining: a first
   switching state when the switching element is in the first position; and a second switching
15 state when the switching element is in the second position.
            Preferably, the switching element has a longitudinal switching axis disposed
   parallel to the longitudinal device axis; the switching element is movably disposed within
   the interior cavity of the hollow body and along the switching axis; and the biasing
   element imparts a variable longitudinal biasing force to the switching element.
20        Preferably, the first position is a switch-making position; the second position is a
   switch-breaking position; the first switching state is a switch-making state; and the second
   switching state is a switch-breaking state.
          Preferably, the switching element is a piston.
          Preferably, the electrically-conductive contact is physically coupled to the switching
25 element and is movable along the longitudinal device axis between the first position and
   the second position.
          Preferably, the switch further comprises a stop element defining a second interior
   cavity in which the switching element is movably disposed, the stop element being at
   least partly disposed in the interior cavity of the hollow body.
30

                                                   4
          Preferably, the switching element further comprises a bias contact; and the biasing
   element is disposed about at least a portion of the switching element between the stop
   element and the bias contact.
          Preferably, a magnitude of the biasing force is dependent upon a longitudinal
 5 position of the stop element within the interior cavity of the hollow body.
          Preferably, the switching axis is disposed coincident with the device axis.
          Preferably, the biasing element imparts the biasing force to place the switching
   element in the switch-breaking position to create a normally open switch configuration.
          Preferably, the biasing element imparts the biasing force to place the switching
10 element in the switch-making position to create a normally closed switch configuration.
          Preferably, a distance between the switch-making position and the switch-breaking
   position is between approximately 25 [tm and approximately 750 [tm.
          Preferably, a distance between the switch-making position and the switch-breaking
   position is between approximately 75 [tm and approximately 200 [tm.
15        Preferably, the electrically-conductive contact is electrically insulated from the
   hollow body and the switching element.
          Preferably, the switch further comprising an electric indication circuit: electrically
   connected to the switching element and the electrically-conductive contact; and having an
   indicator operable to transmit state-change information to signal a user that a state change
20 of the switching element has occurred.
          Preferably, the biasing element is a compression spring compressed between the
   bias contact and the stop element around the switching element to bias the switching
   element in a direction away from the stop element.
           According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a switch,
25 comprising: a hollow body defining an interior cavity; a switching element having a
   switching axis and movably disposed within the interior cavity of the hollow body along
   the switching axis to define: a first position along the switching axis; and a second
   position along the switching axis, the second position being different from the first
   position; a biasing element imparting an adjustable biasing force to the switching element

                                                   5
   to place the switching element in one of the first position and the second position until an
   external force imparted to the switching element along the switching axis exceeds the
   biasing force thereby causing the switching element to move to the other one of the first
   position and the second position; and an electrically-conductive contact coupled to the
 5 switching element and defining: a first switching state when the switching element is in
   the first position; and a second switching state when the switching element is in the
   second position.
          According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a switch of
   a device, comprising: a hollow body defining an interior cavity; a switching element
10 having a longitudinal switching axis and movably disposed within the interior cavity of
   the hollow body along the switching axis to define: a first position along the switching
   axis; and a second position along the switching axis, the second position being different
   from the first position; a biasing element imparting an adjustable longitudinal biasing
   force to the switching element to place the switching element in one of the first position
15 and the second position until an external force imparted to the switching element along
   the switching axis exceeds the biasing force thereby causing the switching element to
   move to the other one of the first position and the second position; and an electrically
   conductive contact coupled to the switching element and defining: a first switching state
   when the switching element is in the first position; and a second switching state when the
20 switching element is in the second position.
          Preferably, the longitudinal switching axis is disposed parallel to a longitudinal
   device axis of the device.
          Other features that are considered as characteristic for the invention are set forth in
   the appended claims.
25        Although the invention is illustrated and described herein as embodied in a force
   switch, it is, nevertheless, not intended to be limited to the details shown because various
   modifications and structural changes may be made therein without departing from the
   spirit of the invention and within the scope and range of equivalents of the claims.
          The construction and method of operation of the invention, however, together with
30 additional objects and advantages thereof, will be best understood from the following

                                           6
description of specific embodiments when read in connection with the accompanying
drawings.

                                                7
  Brief Description of Drawings
           At least one embodiment of the present invention will be described according to
  the accompanying drawings, in which:
           FIG. 1 is a perspective view from a side of an exemplary embodiment of a force
5 switch according to the invention.
           FIG. 2 is a longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from a side of the
  force switch of FIG. 1 through a near half of the switch;

                                                       8
           FIG. 3 is a longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from a side of the force switch
   of FIG. 1 through a near half of the switch;
            FIG. 4 is a longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from a side of the force switch
   of FIG. I through a near half of the switch;
            FIG. 5 is a longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from a side of the force switch
   of FIG. 1 through a near half of the switch;
            FIG. 6 is a longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from a side of the force switch
   of FIG. I through approximately a longitudinal axis of the switch;
                                                                                                   switch
            FIG. 7 is a longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from a side of the force
    of FIG. 1 through a far half of the switch;
                                                                                          a side of the
             FIG. 8 is an enlarged, longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from
    force switch of FIG. 6 with the switch in an un-actuated position;
                                                                                          a side of the
             FIG. 9 is an enlarged, longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from
    force switch of FIG. 6 with the switch in an actuated position;
                                                                                             of a force
             FIG. 10 is a perspective view from a side of another exemplary embodiment
     switch according to the invention.
                                                                                          the force switch
             FIG. I1 is a longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from a side of
     of FIG. 10 through a near half of the switch;
                                                                                       of the force switch
              FIG. 12 is a longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from a side
     of FIG. 10 through a near half of the switch;
                                                                                           the force switch
              FIG. 13 is a longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from a side of
      of FIG. 10 through approximately a longitudinal axis of the switch;
                                                                                           the force switch
              FIG. 14 is a longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from a side of
      of FIG. 10 through a far half of the switch;
                                                                                        of the force switch
5              FIG. 15 is a longitudinally cross-sectional perspective view from a side
      of FIG. 10 through a far half of the switch;
                                                                                  view from a side of the
               FIG. 16 is an enlarged, longitudinally cross-sectional perspective
       force switch of FIG. 13 with the switch in an un-actuated position; and
                                                                                  view from a side of the
               FIG. 17 is an enlarged, longitudinally cross-sectional perspective
10     force switch of FIG. 13 with the switch in an actuated position.

                                                        9
   Best Mode for Carrying Out the Invention
                                                                                      and related drawings
             Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description
   directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised
                                                                                                        elements
   without departing from the spirit or the scope of the invention. Additionally, well-known
                                                                                               be omitted so as
   of exemplary embodiments of the invention will not be described in detail or will
   not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.
                                                                                                   that the
             Before the present invention is disclosed and described, it is to be understood
                                                                                              only and is not
    terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments
                                                                                      and the appended
    intended to be limiting. It must be noted that, as used in the specification
                                                                                                         clearly
    claims, the singular forms "a,"1 "an," and "the" include plural references unless the context
     dictates otherwise.
                                                                                        of the invention that
              While the specification concludes with claims defining the features
                                                                        better understood from a
     are regarded as novel, it is believed that the invention will be
                                                                         the drawing figures, in which like
     consideration of the following description in conjunction with
                                                                                 are not drawn to scale.
     reference numerals are carried forward. The figures of the drawings
                                                                             first, particularly to FIGS. I to 9
               Referring now to the figures of the drawings in detail and
                                                                    force switch 1. FIGS. 10 to 17 illustrate
      thereof, there is shown a first exemplary embodiment of a
                                                                                           in more detail below,
      a second exemplary embodiment of the force switch 1. As will be described
                                                                          switch configuration and the second
      the first exemplary embodiment represents a "normally open"
                                                                          configuration. Where features of
       exemplary embodiment represents a "normally closed" switch
                                                                       understanding, similar reference
       the switch 1 are similar in the two embodiments, for ease of
       numerals will be used.
                                                                                force along the longitudinal
                The force switch I can be incorporated into a device where
                                                                        to be taken when that force exceeds a
        axis of the device needs to be measured and an action needs
                                                                         for example, in a medical device, but
.5      given predetermined value. This force switch 1 can be used,
                                                                               As will be described in further
        is not limited to the exemplary embodiment of a medical device.
                                                                       surgical stapling device such as is
        detail below, the force switch I can be used with a circular
        disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,104,025 to Main
                                                                                           6 provides an example
                 FIGS. 1 to 9 represent different portions of the force switch 1. FIG.
                                                                    I that allows one to see all parts of the
30       view through the longitudinal axis 2 of the force switch
                                                                                  other parts of the switch I may
         switch 1. A contact piston 10 provides a central part around which

                                                                   10
                                                                                        12 of the contact piston 10. The
  be explained. A nose piece or tip 20 is fastened to the distal end
                                                                                             straight lines in FIGS. 4 to 9,
  distal end 12 and an internal bore 22 of the tip 20 are illustrated with
                                                                                   can be provided with external male
  however, in a first exemplary embodiment, the distal end 12
                                                                                    threads. Alternatively, the tip 20 can
   threads and the bore 22 can be provided with internal female
                                                                                                                             In
                                                                        to the distal end 12 of the contact piston 10.
   be press-fit, glued, welded, or otherwise connected
                                                                                   24 of the internal bore 22 has a non
    the configuration shown in FIGS. 4 to 9, a proximal portion
                                                                                        the piston 10 such that, when
    threaded flat portion for receiving therein the distal-most end of
                                                                         portion 24 acts as a stop for further threading
     completely threaded into the bore 22, the proximal
     of the distal end 12 therein.
                                                                               14 is provided on the outside surface of
               At the proximal end of the piston 10, a widening
                                                         formed in the interior thereof.
     the piston 10 and an internal bore 16 is
                                                                                 a portion of the contact piston 10. One
               A hollow body tube 30 is disposed around at least
                                                                                                               proximal bore
                                                            the tube 30 includes a relatively narrower
      exemplary embodiment of the interior of
                                                                                                                            The
                                                                        the opposite configuration is also possible).
      32 and a relatively wider distal bore 34 (although
                                                                                                                      thereof
                                                                the piston 10 that includes a central shaft 18
      bores 32, 34 surround a proximal portion of
                                                                                                                       proximal
                                                                the widening 14 and the interior shape of the
       and the widening 14. The exterior shape of
                                                                                                                             of
                                                                    in a circular configuration, the interior diameter
       bore 32 are substantially equal. Accordingly,
                                                                                                             14. As used
                          bore  32 is substantially    equal   to the outer diameter of the widening
       the proximal
                                                                                                                   two parts to
                                                                 is only a sufficient clearance between the
        herein, substantially equal means that there
                                                                     given first material requires a particular first spacing
 D allow one to slide within the other. Thus, if a
                                                                                                                 to permit the
                                                               and the inner surface of the body tube 30
        between the outer surface of the piston 10
                                                                                                               30, whereas, if a
                                                             spacing exists between the two parts 10,
         piston 10 to move therein, then that first
                                                                                                           surface of the piston
                                                              (or larger) spacing between the outer
         given second material requires a smaller                                                                        that that
                   the  inner  surface  of  the  body    tube  30   to permit the piston 10 to move therein, then
          10 and
25        second spacing exists between the two parts 10, 30.
                                                                                           tube 30, an adjustable end cap 40
                    There are two parts between the piston 10 and the body
                                                                                                                   the distal bore
               a  bias   device  50.  The   exterior   shape   of the end cap 40 and the interior shape of
          and
                                                                                                                         of the
                                                               in a circular configuration, the interior diameter
           34 are substantially equal. Accordingly,
                                                                                                                 when the end
                  bore    34 is substantially    equal   to the   outer diameter of the end cap 40. Thus,
           distal
                                                                                                                  space defined
                        inserted  into-the  distal  bore   34,  the   cap 40 substantially closes an interior
 30        cap 40    is
                                                                                                                   of the central
                                         of  the  distal  and  proximal     bores 34, 32, the exterior surface
            by the interior surfaces

                                                                            and the proximal end surface of the cap
 shaft 18, the distal transverse surface of the widening 14,
                                                                                The bias device 50 and the cap 40
 40. The bias device 50 is disposed inside this interior space.
                                                                     10 in a given direction, in this case, in the
  act together with the widening 14 to bias the piston
                                                                                                                 cap 40.
                                                           50 can be dependent upon the position of the
  proximal direction. Force of the bias device
                                                                          the bias device5Ocan exert a first biasing
  For example, if the cap 40 is closer to the widening 14,
                                                                      14, the bias device 50 can exert a second
   force and if the cap 40 is further from the widening
                                                                50 used, the first force can be greater than the
   biasing force. Depending upon the bias device
                                                                                                                   various
                                                               required, if the cap 40 is adjustable between
   second, or vice-versa. It is beneficial, but not
                                                                                                           adjusted to a
                                                         a configuration, the bias device 50 can be
    locations along the body tube 30. In such
     user-desired pre-bias.
                                                                           50 is shown in FIGS. 2 to 9. The following
               One embodiment of the cap 40 and bias device
                                                                                                             distal bore
                     however,    will be  directed  to  the  view of FIG. 8. In this embodiment, the
     description,
                                                                                                                 42 that
               a larger  diameter   than  the proximal     bore 32. The end cap 40 has exterior threads
     34   has
                                                                                                                          the
                                                                    of the distal bore 34. In such a configuration,
      mate with non-illustrated internal female threads
                                                                                                       the distal bore 34.
               can  be  rotated  into the  distal bore   34 along any longitudinal point within
      cap 40                                                                                                   endpoint 36
                                                              diameter than the distal bore 34, the distal
      With the proximal bore 32 having a smaller
                                                                                               is formed with an interior
                       bore 32  forms  a  stop  for insertion of the cap 40. The cap 40
      of  proximal
                                                                                                            of the piston
                                                            to the outer shape of the central shaft 18
       bore 44 having a shape substantially equal
                                                                                                                  forces will
                                                              into the distal bore 34 such that longitudinal
       10. Thus, while the cap 40 can be screwed
                                                                                                          10 can move
                                                        bore 34, the central shaft 18 of the piston
       not press the cap 40 out from the distal
                                                                with respect to the cap 40.
        longitudinally freely within the bore 44 and
                                                                               as a compression spring 50. As such,
                  The bias device 50 is embodied, in this example,
                                                                                                           distal transverse
                                                          central shaft 18 of the piston 10 up to the
         when the spring 50 is placed around the
                                                                                                             central shaft
                   of the widening    14,  and  when   the   threaded cap 40 is also placed around the
         surface
                                                                                                        compressed
                                                          the distal bore 34, the spring 50 can be
25       18 and screwed at least partially within
                                                                                                    the cap 40 can traverse
                                                        longitudinal connection distance that
         between two extremes defined by the
                                                                                                                    to the stop
                                                                  distal bore 34 and fully inserted therein up
          between being securely but barely inside the
          36.
                                                                                                                              a
                                                                             contact of an electrical switch for signaling
                    Because the piston 10 moves, it can form one
                                                                                                         insulated from the
                                                           needs to be provided that is electrically
 30        state of the piston 10. Another contact
                                                                                                                that the
                                             10 needs   to  be  associated   with a switch sub-assembly so
           piston 10. Thus, the     piston

                                                           12
                                                                    in a first longitudinal position and in a
electrical switch is in a first state when the piston 10 is
                                                                         position (the first and second states
 second state when the piston 10 is in a second longitudinal
                                                                                                                  and
                  or on/off).  This  switch  sub-assembly      is formed at a proximal end of the piston 10
 being    off/on
                                                                  in two exemplary embodiments. The first
 the body tube 30 and, in the following text, is shown
                                                                mentioned as being related to FIGS. I to 9.
 embodiment, the "normally open" switch has been
                                                           17 and is a "normally closed" switch.
  The second embodiment relates to FIGS. 10 to
                                                                            with regard to FIGS. 8 to 9. A switch
            The normally open switch sub-assembly is explained
                                                                          into the proximal end of the body tube
  bushing 60 has a distally projecting stub 62 that is inserted
                                                                  30 in any number of ways (e.g., by bonding,
  30. This stub 62 can be connected to the body tube
                                                                                                            is
                                                         The proximal end of the switch bushing 60
   welding, adhesive, press-fit, screw threads).
                                                                     each of the piston 10, the tip 20, the body
   attached to a mounting body 70. In one embodiment,
                                                             the mounting body 70 are electrically conductive
   tube 30, the cap 40, the switch bushing 60, and
                                                                                              20 and cap 40 need
                                                  the force switch 1. However, the tip
   and provide a first electrical contact of
                                                              contact that, when put into electrical connection
    not be conductive. To form a second electrical
                                                                                                             shown in
                                                           circuit (or interrupts an electrical circuit as
    with the first contact, completes an electrical
                                                                                                         and the first
                                                       to be disposed between the second contact
    FIGS. 10 to 17), an insulating body needs
                                                         (or out of) contact with the second contact.
     contact needs to be operatively moved into
                                                                                                            conductive
                                                              herein include parts that are electrically
               Various switch embodiments disclosed
                                                               The switch according to the present invention,
      and actually form part of the electronic circuit.
                                                                                                        An alternative
                                                      where parts of the switch form the circuit.
      however, is not limited to embodiments
                                                                                                      of the invention
                                                       the mechanical switch-breaking aspects
      configuration can take advantage only of
                                                                       electrical switch adjacent the switch, e.g.,
       to have the movement of the piston actuate a separate
                                                                                            to in the art as a tact
                                                 can be embodied as what is referred
       the piston. Such an external switch                                                                             is
                          such  a switch is very  small.    Various   microswitches can be used as well if there
        switch because
5       sufficient room for such larger switches.
                                                                        the second electrical contact is formed by a
                 In the exemplary embodiment of FIGS. I to 9,
                                                                                                     part that connects
                  ring 80  and the insulating  body   is formed by an insulating stub 90. The
        contact
                                                                                                          100. Each of
                   80 and  the insulating stub  90  to  the piston 10 is a T-shaped connecting bar
         the ring
                                                                                                              an easy
                                                             nested in their shape so that they can fit in
         the ring 80, the stub 90, and the bar 100 are
                                                                                                  separates the contact
                     into the switch  bushing  and   the body tube 30. The insulating stub
30        assembly

                                                       13
                                                                      conductive contact with the piston 10
 ring 80 from the connecting bar 100, which is in electrically
  and the switch bushing 60.
                                                                                           102 of the
             More specifically, the internal bore 16 is shaped to receive a distal boss
                                                                                the internal bore 16 can be
  connecting bar 100. The connection between the distal boss 102 and
                                                                             10 and the tip 10. If the boss
  like any of the embodiments of the connection between the piston
                                                                         bore 16 has a corresponding female
   102 has an external male thread, for example, then the internal
                                                                                of the connecting bar 100 and
   internal thread. Such an exemplary configuration makes attachment
                                                         costs and time.
   the piston 10 easy with regard to manufacturing
              The contact ring 80 has an internal bore 82 having a shape dimensioned to correspond
                                                                    92 of the insulating stub 90. This
    substantially to the outer shape of a distal contact portion
                                                                        any polygonal shape, such as circular,
    external outer shape of the distal contact portion 92 can take
                                                                                 of this outer shape, the shape
    ovular, rectangular, square, star, triangular, for example. Regardless
                                                                 thereto so that the contact ring 80 can be
     of the internal bore of the contact ring 80 corresponds
                                                                      bonding, welding, or any other
     inserted thereon and fixed (whether by press-fit, adhesive,
                                                                between the ring 80 and any other portion of
     connection process) thereto so that control of contact
      the first contact can be made with high precision.
                                                                                                  assembly can
                After the contact ring 80 is connected to the insulator stub 90, the combined
                                                                  shape of an intermediate portion of the rod
      be connected to the connecting rod 100. The external
                                                              bore 94 extending through the insulator stub
       100 is made to correspond to an internal shape of a
                                                                              100 can take any polygonal
       90. Again, the outer shape of the intermediate portion of the rod
                                                                                                            of
                                                      square, star, triangular, for example. Regardless
       shape, such as circular, ovular, rectangular,
                                                                 insulator stub 90 corresponds thereto so that
       this outer shape, the shape of the internal bore of the
                                                                             by press-fit, adhesive, bonding,
        the insulator stub 90 can be inserted thereon and fixed (whether
                                                                              of contact between the ring 80,
        welding, or any other connection process) thereto so that control
                                                            the first contact can be made with high precision.
5       mounted to the stub 90, and any other portion of
                                                                                           the piston 10 (and,
                 With such a connection, the connecting rod 100 electrically contacts
                                                                                   60, and the mounting body
         thereby, the tip 20, the body tube 30, the cap 40, the switch bushing
                                                                                                       the inner
                                                         ring 80 is dimensioned to be smaller than
         70). The outer shape/diameter of the contact
                                                                                                   the switch
                                                     and insertion of the contact ring 80 inside
          shape/diameter of the switch bushing 60
                                                                     Thus, the contact ring 80 is electrically
30        bushing 60 creates a transverse gap 110 therebetween.
                                                             side thereof by the transverse gap I 10 and is
          isolated from the switch bushing 60 on the outer

                                                        14
                                                                                                               in
   electrically isolated (insulated) from the connecting rod 100 on the inner side thereof by being
   direct contact with the outside surface of the insulator stub 90.
              To make an electric circuit including the contact ring 80 and any electrically conducting
                                                                                    must be made at the
   part of the first contact (10, 20, 30, 40, 60, 70), an electrical connection
                                                                                               in FIGS. 5 to 9.
   contact ring 80. One exemplary embodiment for such a connection is illustrated
                                                                                           bore 103 extending
    Specifically, the connecting bar 100 is formed with the proximal longitudinal
                                                                                  at least a part of the
    from the proximal transverse exterior surface 104 up to and including
                                                                                         position where the
    intermediate portion the connecting rod 100 that is located at a longitudinal
                                                                                    connect the longitudinal
     contact ring 80 is disposed. A further transverse bore 106 is formed to
                                                                                                an insulated wire
     bore 103 with an interior surface of the contact ring 80. In such a configuration,
                                                                                                        (e.g., by
     206 can be threaded through the longitudinal 103 and transverse 104 bores and fastened
                                                                                     a connection, the contact
     welding) to the interior surface of the contact ring 80. For ease of such
                                                              of depressions) on the inside surface for
     ring 80 can be formed with a depression (or a series
                                                                          portion of the wire remains in
      receiving the electrical portion of the wire while the insulating
                                                                                                            rod
      contact with the entirety of the longitudinal 103 and transverse 104 bores of the connecting
       100.
                                                                                             in FIG. 7, where
                Such an electrical connection is, for example diagrammatically shown
       circuitry 200 is disposed between the contact ring 80 and the mounting body 70. This exemplary
                                                                              (i.e., an LED) that lights the
       circuitry includes a power source 202 and a contact indicator 204
                                                                           body 70 and the insulated wire 206
       LED when the electrical circuit is completed. If the mounting
                                                                               when electrical contact occurs
       are each connected to the circuitry 200 (as shown in FIG. 7), then,
                                                                        (10, 20, 30, 40, 60, 70), the LED 204
        between the contact ring 80 and any part of the first contact
        will illuminate.
                                                                                         of the switch 1 between
                 With the above exemplary configuration set forth, the functioning
                                                                        comparison between FIGS. 8 and 9.
 5      the first and second states can be described with regard to a
                                                                         connecting rod 100. Further, the
         The piston 10 is longitudinally fixed to the tip 20 and to the
                                                                                       exterior of the connecting
         insulator stub 90 and the contact ring 80 are longitudinally fixed to the
                                                                  bore 44 of the cap 40 at the distal end and is
         rod 100. The piston 10 is slidably disposed inside the
                                                                tube body 30. Thus, the entire piston sub
          slidably disposed inside the proximal bore 32 of the
                                                                                             a longitudinal gap 112
30        assembly (10, 20, 80, 90, 100) can move in a longitudinal direction because
                                                                      ring 80 and a proximal end surface 64 of
          exists between the distal transverse surface of the contact

                                                           15
                                                                          forms the space over which the force
   the stub 62 of the switch bushing 60. It is this gap 112 that
   switch 1 can function.
                                                                                       the adjustable cap 40 and
               The bias device (e.g., compression spring) 50 disposed between
                                                                     a proximally directed force against the
    the distal transverse surface of the widening 14 imparts
                                                                                                                 as a
                                                               the spring 50. This force, referred to herein
    piston 10 when the cap 40 is adjusted to compress
                                                                                                    stub 62 of the
                                                     distance from the electrically conductive
     pre-tension, keeps the contact ring 80 at a
                                                                        gap 112. Without any external force
     switch bushing 60- which is defined as the longitudinal
                                                                                                       this position
                                                            will always keep the contact ring 80 at
      imparted on the force switch 1, the pre-tension
                                                                     contact ring 80 will not occur. A distally
      and electrical contact between the first contact and the
                                                            20 could alter this situation. See FIG. 9. If the
      directed external force F imparted upon the tip
                                                                                                          will not
                                                           imparted by the spring 50, then the spring
      force F is not as great as the pre-tension force
                                                                                                                  if
                                                           compressed by the adjustable cap 40. However,
       compress any further than it has already been
                                                                         by the spring 50, then the spring will
       the force F is greater than the pre-tension force imparted
                                                                                                                 the
                                                                of the piston sub-assembly - the piston 10,
       compress and the tip 20 along with the remainder
                                                        and the contact ring 80 - will move in a distal
        connecting rod 100, the insulating stub 90,
                                                                                                     end surface 64
                                                             direction is limited by the proximal
        longitudinal direction. The distal longitudinal
                                                                                                               distal
                                                               contact between the end surface 64 and the
        of the stub 62 of the switch bushing 60 because
                                                              further movement of the tip 20. This
         side of the contact ring 80 completely prevents
                                                                       that has an adjustable longitudinal pre
         configuration, therefore, provides an electrical switch
                                                                                                         electrical
                                                          the switch 1 can actuate and complete the
 0       tension force that must be overcome before
                                                                                                        shows the
                                                         80 touches the switch bushing 60. FIG. 9
          circuit that is "open" until the contact ring
                                                                                               FIG. 8 shows the
                                                   100) in the actuated distal position and
          piston sub-assembly (10, 20, 80, 90,
                                                      proximal position
          piston sub-assembly in the un-actuated
                                                                                   1 of FIGS. I to 9, has the spring
                    One exemplary process for assembly of the force switch
                                                                                                     into the proximal
           50  inserted over the central shaft 16  of the piston 10. The cap 40 is also screwed
25
                                                                                                                interior
                                                                sub-assembly is, then inserted through the
           bore 34 of the body tube 30. The piston-spring
                                                                                                            the piston
                                                                (e.g., screwed) onto the distal end 12 of
           bore 44 of the cap 40 and the tip 20 is fastened
            10. This forms a piston sub-assembly.
                                                                                portion of the connecting bar 100 by
                     The insulating stub 90 is attached to the intermediate
                                                                                                             Similarly,
                                                            and, second, over the intermediate portion.
 30         being placed, first, over the distal boss 102
                                                                                                             ring 80 is
                                                                 stub 90 by being placed thereover. The
             the contact ring 80 is attached to the insulating

                                                         16
                                                                         90 is longitudinally connected to
   longitudinally connected to the insulating stub 90 and the stub
                                                                                                   through the
   the intermediate portion of the connecting bar 100. The insulated wire 206 is passed
                                                                                                 106 bores of
   bore of the mounting body 70 and through both the longitudinal 103 and transverse
                                                                                                          80
   the connecting rod 100 and electrically connected to the interior surface of the contact ring
                                                                                         body 70 or the
    without electrically connecting the wire 206 to any portion of the mounting
                                                                                    is ready to be connected to
    connecting bar 100. This connection forms a switch sub-assembly that
    the piston sub-assembly.
                                                                                      the stub 62 of the switch
               Either or both of the distal boss 102 of the connecting bar 100 or
                                                                                   10 and/or the stub 62 to the
     bushing 60 can have threads for connecting the boss 102 to the piston
                                                                                       (both physically and
     body tube 30. As such, the entire switch sub-assembly can be connected
                                                                                                  together, only
     electrically) to the piston sub-assembly. With these two sub-assemblies connected
                                                                         end of the switch bushing 60. Such a
      the mounting body 70 needs to be connected to the proximal
                                                                       can be a weld or a mated set of screw
      connection can take any- form, for example, the connection
      threads.
                                                                                                     1 having a
                FIGS. 10 to 17 illustrate a second exemplary embodiment of the force switch
       "normally closed" switch configuration.
                                                                                    1. FIG. 14 provides an
                 FIGS. 10 to 17 illustrate different portions of the force switch
                                                                   axis 2 of the force switch 1 that allows
       example view approximately through the longitudinal
                                                                          10 provides a central part around
        visualization of all parts of the switch 1. The contact piston
                                                                      tip 20 is fastened to the distal end 12 of
        which other parts of the switch I may be explained. The
                                                                           22 of the tip 20 are illustrated with
        the contact piston 10. The distal end 12 and the internal bore
                                                                                 embodiment, the distal end 12
        straight lines in FIGS. 13 to 15 and 17, however, in the exemplary
                                                                         can be provided with internal female
         can be provided with external male threads and the bore 22
                                                                      welded, or otherwise connected to the
         threads. Alternatively, the tip 20 can be press-fit, glued,
                                                                                 in FIGS. 13 to 15 and 17, the
25       distal end 12 of the contact piston 10. In the configuration shown
                                                                                                             therein
                                                        has the non-threaded flat portion for receiving
          proximal portion 24 of the internal bore 22
                                                                                         into the bore 22, the
          the distal-most end of the piston 10 such that, when completely threaded
                                                           threading of the distal end 12 therein.
          proximal portion 24 acts as a stop for further
                                                                                14 is provided to extend radially
                   The piston 10 has a proximal end at which the widening
                                                                bore 16 is formed in the interior of the piston 10
30         the outside surface of the piston 10. The internal
           at the proximal end.

                                                          17
              As shown in the enlarged view of FIG. 16, a hollow body tube 120 is disposed around at
   least a portion of the contact piston 10. As compared to the first embodiment of the body tube 30,
   the interior of this tube 120 has a constant diameter bore 122. The bore 122 has a shape
                                                                                                         18 of
   substantially equal to an exterior shape of the widening 14 and surrounds the central shaft
                                                                               diameter of the bore 122 is
   the piston 10. Accordingly, in a circular configuration, the interior
    substantially equal to the outer diameter of the widening 14.
               There are two parts of the force switch I disposed between the piston 10 and the body tube
                                                                                         spring stop puck 130
    120: a spring stop puck 130 and a bias device 50. The exterior shape of the
                                                                                              circular
    and the interior shape of the bore 122 are substantially equal. Accordingly, in a
                                                                                      to the outer diameter of
     configuration, the interior diameter of the bore 122 is substantially equal
     the spring stop puck 130 so that the spring stop puck 130 slides within the bore 122 substantially
                                                                                      130 differs from the end
     without play but also without substantial friction. This spring stop puck
                                                                                                    as the tip 20
     cap 40 in that it floats entirely separate within the body tube 120. More specifically,
                                                                                        surface pushes against
      is threaded onto the distal end 12 of the piston 10, the proximal transverse
                                                                                                        it would,
      but is not fixed to the distal transverse surface of the puck 130. In such a configuration,
      at first glance, seem to indicate that the compression spring 50 could only be set to one given
                                                                 longitudinal length. This would be correct
       compression value because the puck 130 has a fixed
                                                                          longitudinal lengths. Therefore, the
       except a set of pucks 130 are provided, each having different
                                                                    one of the set of pucks 130. Also, it is not
       pre-tensioning of the spring 50 is adjusted by selecting
                                                                                           as shown in FIG. 13,
        necessary to thread the tip 20 entirely onto the distal end 12 of the piston 10
        for example. Thus, if the tip 20 is not entirely threaded on the piston 10, user-desired pre
                                                                                                       threading
        tensioning of the bias device 50 occurs by providing a specifically sized puck 130 and
                                                                                                       solely
        the tip 20 onto the piston 10 at a predefined distance. Alternatively, the puck 130 can
                                                                                the piston 10. One embodiment
         determine the pre-tension if the tip 20 is entirely threaded onto to
                                                                                                    description,
 5       of the stop puck 130 and bias device 50 is shown in FIGS. 10 to 17. The following
                                                                              is formed with an internal bore
         however, is directed to the view of FIG. 13. The stop puck 130
                                                                              piston 10 so that the piston 10 can
          132 having a shape substantially equal to the outer shape of the
          traverse through the puck 130 without hindrance.
                   When the spring stop puck 130 is within the bore 122, the stop puck 130 substantially
                                                                     of the bore 122, the exterior surface of the
30         closes an interior space defined by the interior surfaces
                                                                            14, and the proximal transverse
           central shaft 18, the distal transverse surface of the widening

                                                           18
                                                                              this interior space. The bias device
 surface of the puck 130. The bias device 50 is disposed inside
                                                                                       piston 10 in a given
  50 and the stop puck 130 act together with the widening 14 to bias the
                                                                         the bias device 50 is dependent upon the
  direction, in this case. in the proximal direction. Force of
   longitudinal length of the stop puck 130.
                                                                                            spring 50. As such,
              The bias device 50 is embodied, in this example, as a compression
                                                                    18 of the piston 10 up to the distal transverse
   when the spring 50 is placed around the central shaft
                                                                  130 is also around the central shaft 18 and the
    surface of the widening 14, and when the stop puck
                                                         50 is compressed or pre-tensioned therebetween.
    tip 20 is attached to the piston 10, the spring
                                                                                    electrical switch for signaling a
               Because the piston 10 moves, it can form one contact of an
                                                                to be provided that is electrically insulated from
     state of the force switch 1. Another contact needs
                                                                                                        so that the
                                                    to be associated with a switch sub-assembly
     the piston 10. Thus, the piston 10 needs
                                                                 piston 10 is in a first longitudinal position and
     electrical force switch 1 is in a first state when the
                                                                 longitudinal position (the first and second states
      in a second state when the piston 10 is in a second
                                                                                                                10 and
                                                                  is formed at a proximal end of the piston
      being off/on or on/off). This switch sub-assembly
                                                                     to the second exemplary "normally closed"
       the body tube 120 and, in the following text, applies
       embodiment.
                                                                        stub 62 that is inserted into the proximal
                 The switch bushing 60 has a distally projecting
                                                                                                                   of
                                                             connected to the body tube 120 in any number
        end of the body tube 120. This stub 62 can be
                                                                                                       end of the
                                                         press-fit, screw threads). The proximal
        ways (e.g., by bonding, welding, adhesive,
                                                                   70. In one embodiment, each of the piston 10,
        switch bushing 60 is attached to a mounting body
                                                                              bushing 60, and the mounting body 70
        the tip 20, the body tube 120, the stop puck 130, the switch
                                                                          contact of the force switch 1. However,
         are electrically conductive and provide a first electrical
                                                                       conductive. To form a second electrical
         the tip 20 and stop puck 130 need not be electrically
                                                                 with the first contact, interrupts an electrical
         contact that, when put into electrical connection
                                                                  body needs to be disposed between the second
 5        circuit as shown in FIGS. 10 to 17, an insulating
                                                                      moved out of contact with the second contact.
          contact and the first contact needs to be operatively
                                                                            the second electrical contact is formed by
                   In the exemplary embodiment of FIGS. 10 to 17,
                                                                                                             part that
                                                            formed by an insulating bushing 150. The
           a contact pin 140 and the insulating body is
                                                                           140 to the piston 10 is a T-shaped,
           connects the insulating bushing 150 and the contact pin
                                                                                                              pin 140 are
                         conductive,  contact screw  160.   The insulating bushing 150 and the contact
30         electrically
                                                                                                           60 and the
                    in their shape so that they can fit in an easy assembly into the switch bushing
            nested

                                                       19
                                                                                                 the contact
 mounting body 70. The insulating bushing 150 physically and electrically separates
                                                                    60, which is in electrically conductive
 pin 140 from the mounting body 70 and the switch bushing
  contact with at least the piston 10 and the switch bushing 60.
                                                                                                    the contact
             More specifically, the internal bore 16 is shaped to receive a distal boss 162 of
                                                                                                          any of
  screw 160. The connection between the distal boss 162 and the internal bore 16 can be like
                                                                                10. If the boss 162 has an
  the embodiments of the connection between the piston 10 and the tip
                                                                                            female internal
  external male thread, for example, then the internal bore 16 has a corresponding
                                                                         the contact screw 160 and the
   thread. Such an exemplary configuration makes attachment of
                                                           and time. A transverse end surface 164 of the
   piston 10 easy with regard to manufacturing costs
                                                                                    of the distal. boss 162
    contact screw 160 also provides a stop for indicating complete insertion
    inside the internal bore 16 of the piston 10.
                                                                                 shape dimensioned to
               The insulating bushing 150 has an internal bore 152 having a
                                                                                             the contact pin
    correspond substantially to the outer shape of a proximal contact portion 142 of
                                                                                    take any polygonal shape,
     140. This external outer shape of the proximal contact portion 142 can
                                                                       for example. Regardless of this outer
     such as circular, ovular, rectangular, square, star, triangular,
                                                                                                             that
                                                        insulating bushing 150 corresponds thereto so
     shape, the shape of the internal bore 152 of the
                                                                                 (whether by press-fit,
     the insulating bushing 150 can be inserted thereon and fixed thereto
                                                                         so that control of contact between
     adhesive, bonding, welding, or any other connection process)
                                                                        can be made with high precision.
      the contact pin 140 and any other portion of the first contact
                                                                                pin 140, the combined
                After the insulating bushing 150 is connected to the contact
                                                                      body 70. The external shape of a
       insulating sub-assembly can be connected to the mounting
                                                         is made to correspond to an internal shape of an
       proximal portion of the insulating bushing 150
                                                                  70! Again, the outer shape of the proximal
        internal bore 72 extending through the mounting body
                                                                          shape, such as circular, ovular,
        portion of the insulating bushing 150 can take any polygonal
                                                                          of this outer shape, the shape of the
5       rectangular, square, star, triangular, for example. Regardless
                                                                       so that the insulating bushing 150 can
         internal bore of the mounting body 70 corresponds thereto
                                                                                   bonding, welding, or any
         be inserted thereon and fixed thereto (whether by press-fit, adhesive,
                                                               between the contact pin 140 (mounted in the
          other connection process) so that control of contact
                                                               and any other portion of the first contact can be
          insulating bushing 150 and the mounting body 70)
 0        made with high precision.

                                                         20
              With such a connection, the contact screw 160 electrically contacts the piston 10 (and,
   thereby, the body tube 120, the switch bushing 60, and the mounting body 70, and possibly even
   the tip 20 and the stop puck 130 if desired). The outer shape/diameter of a distal transverse
                                                                                                                of
   widening 144 of the contact pin 140 is dimensioned to be smaller than the inner shape/diameter
                                                                                                    60 creates a
   the switch bushing 60 and insertion of the contact pin 140 inside the switch bushing
                                                                                          isolates the distal
    transverse gap 110 therebetween. Thus, the transverse gap 110 electrically
                                                                                         60, and the proximal
    widening 144 of the contact pin 140 from the inside of the switch bushing
     contact portion 142 of the contact pin 140 is electrically isolated (insulated) from the mounting
                                                                        by being in direct contact with the
     body 70 and the switch bushing 60 on the outer side thereof
     interior bore 152 of the insulating bushing 150.
                To make an electric circuit between the contact pin 140 and any electrically conducting
                                                             130), an electrical connection must be made at
      part of the first contact (e.g., 10, 20, 60, 70, 120,
                                                                         connection is illustrated in FIGS. II
      the contact pin 140. One exemplary embodiment for such a
                                                                                                           166
      to 17. Specifically, the contact screw 160 is formed with a proximal transverse widening
                                                                          defines a proximal transverse surface
       extending radially from the intermediate portion thereof and
                                                                             contact screw 160 in a proximal
       168. The bias device 50 biases the piston 10 and, thereby, the
                                                                                                     contact pin
       direction to electrically conductively contact the distal transverse surface 148 of the
                                                                               160. Because such contact needs
        140 to the proximal transverse surface 168 of the contact screw
                                                                         electrical circuit of the switch sub
        to only be made between these two surfaces to complete an
                                                                             166 of the contact screw 160 can be
        assembly, the outer shape/diameter of the proximal widening
                                                                             switch bearing 60.
        any size or shape that slides within the interior bore 66 of the
                                                                                     the proximal side of the
                  The other electrical contact of the contact pin 140 resides on
                                                                               bore 146 is formed from the
         contact pin 140. In one exemplary embodiment, a longitudinal
                                                                                                              wire
                                                            140 inward and receives therein an insulated
         proximal transverse surface of the contact pin
                                                                         by welding) to the interior surface of
25       206. The conductor of this wire 206 can be fastened (e.g.,
                                                                           for example diagrammatically shown
         the longitudinal bore 146. Such an electrical connection is,
                                                                         source 202 supplies power to the contact
          in FIG. 7. In such an exemplary configuration, the power
                                                                            circuit is completed, which will
          indicator 204 (LED) and lights the LED when the electrical
                                                                       of the force switch I - Conversely, when
          always be the case in this normally closed configuration
                                                                 contact pin 140 is removed, the LED 104 will
30         electrical contact between the first contact and the

                                                           21
                                                                                  104). It can also be audible
  turn off. Of course, the indicator need not be visual (e.g., the LED
                                                                 or any combination thereof.
  (e.g., speaker with sound) or tactile (e.g., vibration),
                                                                                              and the mounting
             It is also possible to provide circuitry 300 between the contact pin 140
                                                                       circuit is opened (i.e., not completed).
   body 70 that lights the LED 204 only when the electrical
                                                         LED 204 based upon the two states of the force
   Any logic circuitry can be used to control the
                                                                         300 including a NOR gate and an AND
   switch I shown in FIGS. 10 to 17. For example, the logic
                                                                as shown in FIG. 13. In such a configuration,
    gate can be connected to the force switch 1 circuit
                                                                           off and when contact is broken, as
    when the switch I is in its normally closed state, the LED is
    shown in FIG. 17, the LED will illuminate.
                                                                         the functioning of the switch 1 between
               With the above exemplary configuration set forth,
                                                                                                                    17.
                                                              regard to a comparison between FIGS. 16 and
     the first and second states can be described with
                                                                                        within the insulating
                As set forth above, the contact pin 140 is longitudinally secured
                                                                             secured within at least one of the
      bushing 150 and the insulating bushing 150 is longitudinally
                                                                  body tube 120 is longitudinally secured to the
      switch bearing 60 and the mounting body 70. The
                                                                  130 is disposed, freely longitudinally, between
      distal end of the switch bearing 60. The stop puck
                                                                            fixed to the tip 20 and to the contact
      the spring 50 and the tip 20. The piston 10 is longitudinally
                                                                     the body 120 biased in the proximal
       screw 160 and this piston sub-assembly slides within
                                                                                          (10, 20, 130, 160) can
       direction by the spring 50. Accordingly, the entire piston sub-assembly
                                                                   the spring 50 inside the body tube 120 and this
       move in a distal longitudinal direction to compress
                                                                   17) over which the force switch 1 functions as a
0       compression distance forms a space 134 (see FIG.
        switch.
                                                                                 between the puck 130 and the distal
                  The bias device (e.g., compression spring) 50 disposed
                                                                                                                   10
                                                              a proximally directed force against the piston
        transverse surface of the widening 14 imparts
                                                                    force, referred to herein as a pre-tension, keeps
         when the puck 130 compresses the spring 50. This
                                                                                                               contact
                                                             conductive distal transverse surface of the
25       the contact screw 160 against the electrically
                                                                                                                always
                                                               on the force switch 1, the pre-tension will
          pin 140. Without any external force imparted
                                                                                               first contact and the
                     contact pin 140 at this  position  and electrical contact between the
          keep  the
                                                                                                      the tip 20 could
                                                       directed external force F imparted upon
          contact pin 140 will remain. A distally
                                                                                                                        by
                                                              F is not as great as the pre-tension force imparted
          alter this situation. See FIG. 17. If the force
                                                                                                               compressed
                                                         compress any further than it has already been
 30        the spring 50, then the spring 50 will not
                                                                                            force imparted to the
                         130.  However,   if the force  F is greater than the pre-tension
           by the puck

                                                         22
                                                            compress further and the tip 20, along with the
  piston 10 by the spring 50, then the spring 50 will
                                                                            in a distal longitudinal direction.
  remainder of the piston sub-assembly (10, 130, 160) will move
                                                                                     distance of the spring 50,
  The distal longitudinal direction is limited by the greatest compression
                                                                                     configuration, therefore,
   which, in most applications of the force switch 1, will not occur. This
                                                              longitudinal pre-tension force that must be
   provides an electrical switch that has an adjustable
                                                                   the electrical circuit that is "closed" until
   overcome before the switch I can actuate and complete
                                                               pin 140. The switching distance of the force
   the contact screw 160 no longer touches the contact
                                                                     gap 112 existing between the proximal
   switch 1 of FIGS. 10 to 17 is defined by the longitudinal
                                                                      surface of the widening 166. FIGS. 17
    transverse surface of the stub 62 and the distal transverse
                                                                in the actuated distal position and FIG. 16
    and 19 show the piston sub-assembly (10, 130, 160)
                                                              proximal position.
     shows the piston sub-assembly in the un-actuated
                                                                      switch 1 of FIGS. 10 to 17, the distal end
               One exemplary process for assembly of the force
                                                                62 is fastened longitudinally to the proximal
     of the switch bushing 60 having the projecting stub
                                                                         body tube 120 and the spring 50
      end of the body tube 120. The piston 10 inserted inside the
                                                              inside the body tube 120. The puck 130 is
      inserted over the central shaft 16 of the piston 10
                                                                                                         onto the
                                                     10 and the tip 20 is fully or partially screwed
      placed over the distal end 12 of the piston
                                                              10. At this point, if the tip is fully screwed onto
       exterior threads of the distal end 12 of the piston
                                                                                              of the switch
                                                  the pre-tension force onto the stub 62
       the piston 10, the piston 10 will impart
                                                                                                              of the
                                                            only partially screwed onto the distal end 12
       bushing. To avoid this force, the tip 20 can be
                                                                                                    piston 10 at the
                                                      screwed into the internal bore 16 of the
        piston 10. The contact screw 160 is, then,
                                                                                                    10 and the
                                                    62 between the widening 14 of the piston
        proximal end thereof to capture the stub
                                                                                    sub-assembly.
        widening 166 of the contact screw 160. This forms a piston-spring
                                                                      connected to the contact pin 140 with the
                 The mounting body 70 is longitudinally fixedly
                                                                                                               of the
                                                             of the nested shapes of these parts, the order
         insulating bushing 150 therebetween. Because
                                                                  manufacturing the connections. Alternatively,
25       connection is limited only by the costs and time for
                                                             140 can be placed inside the distal end of the
         the insulating bushing 150 and the contact pin
                                                                                                          distal end
                                                          two parts could move longitudinally if the
          mounting body 70. but, in such a case, these
                                                                                pin sub-assembly.
          of the force switch I is tilted downward. This forms a contact
                                                                          are connected together by fastening,
                   The piston-spring and contact pin sub-assemblies
                                                                                                                 onto
                                                          switch bushing 60. If the tip 20 is fully screwed
 30       longitudinally, the mounting body 70 to the
                                                                                                          50. If,
                      10, then the fastening will have  to overcome the pre-bias force of the spring
          the  piston

                                                      23
                                                                            that no pre-bias exists in the
 however, the tip 20 is minimally screwed onto the piston 10 such
                                                          occurred, the tip 20 can be fully screwed onto
 spring 50, then, after all longitudinal fastening has
                                                                       pre-tensioned state. The conductor
 the distal end 12 of the piston 10 to place the spring 50 in the
                                                                      146 of the contact pin 140 to
  of the insulated wire 206 is attached in the longitudinal bore
  complete the circuit 300.
                                                                                           the longitudinal gap
            In each case of the normally open and normally closed configurations,
                                                                          approximately 750 ptm (0.030"),
  112 has a length of between approximately 25 pm (0.001") and
                                                                       and approximately 200 pim (0.008").
   or in a shorter range between approximately 75 prm (0.003")
                                                                      stainless steel, copper, nickel-plated
            The conductive parts of the force switch I can be of
                                                                                                   206 needs to
                                                 Where the conductor of the insulated wire
   copper, nickel-plated brass, for example.
   be soldered, each of these materials will be sufficient.
                                                                       for switching between the two states
             The range of force that the force switch I applicable
                                                                                   or a shorter range of
    can be between approximately 3 ounces to approximately 20 pounds,
                                                   8 pounds.
    approximately 5 pounds to approximately
                                                                        50, the desired pre-tension force is
              With regard to the mechanics of selecting the spring
                                                                   a given spring 50. In other words, the
     selected to be within or at the mid-range of the range of
                                                           close to a maximum of the spectrum of the spring
     change in state of the force switch will occur not
                                                in the middle of the spectrum.
     50 pre-tension but, instead, somewhere
                                                                         output - whether or not the force on
               The circuitry described above only provides a binary
                                                                            I is greater or less than the pre
      the external object that is transmitted through the force switch
                                                                    gauge, also referred to as a load cell, then
      tensioning. If the force switch is provided with a strain
                                                            user in which, for example, a row of LEDs
      a continuous force output can be displayed to the
                                                         of force or an LCD or LED numerical field
       gradually light up dependent upon the amount
                                                         the amount of force imparted through the force
       increments numerical values corresponding to
5      switch 1.
                                                                     with respect to use in an intraluminal
                The force switch 1.above will now be described
                                                                  in U.S. Patent No. 5,104,025 to Main et al.
        anastomotic circular stapler as depicted, for example,
                                                              Inc. This reference is hereby incorporated
        ("Main"), and assigned to Ethicon Endo-Surgery,
                                                                                                            a trocar
                                                      clearly in the exploded view of FIG. 7 in Main,
        herein in its entirety. As can be seen most
                                                               28 for aligning the trocar shaft 22 to serrations
30       shaft 22 has a distal indentation 21, some recesses
                                                                                                             of
                                                         with the anvils 34. A trocar tip 26 is capable
         29 in the anvil and, thereby, align the staples

                                                      24
                                                         thereto. FIGS. 3 to 6 in Main show how the
 puncturing through tissue when pressure is applied
                                                                          As the anvil 30 is moved closer
 circular stapler 10 functions to join two pieces of tissue together.
                                                                          shown in FIGS. 5 and 6. If this
  to the head 20, tissue is compressed therebetween, as particularly
                                                                                        The interposed
  tissue is overcompressed, this surgical stapling procedure might not succeed.
                                                                                  surgery. This range is
  tissue can be subject to a range of acceptable compressing force during
                                                               The stapler shown in Main cannot indicate
   known and is dependent upon the tissue being stapled.
                                                                             tissue prior to stapling.
   to the user any level of compressive force being imparted upon the
                                                         substituted for the trocar shaft 22, then the
   However, if the force switch 1 described herein is
                                                            the compressive force (acting along the
    stapler 10 will be capable of showing the user when
                                                               the pre-tension of the switch 1. This pre
    longitudinal axis 2 of the force switch 1) has exceeded
                                                           within the range of acceptable tissue
    tension can be selected by the user to have a value
    compressive force.
                                                                      20 having a pointed distal end that can
              FIGS. I and 10 of the present application show a tip
                                                                         and sold by Ethicon Endo-Surgery,
     function. within at least the CDH surgical stapler manufactured
                                                     in Main requires a male threaded screw for
     Inc. The proximal end of the trocar shaft 22
                                                           require an opposing tang embodiment that is
      attachment to the head 20. Other circular staplers
                                                              Thus, the mounting body 70 can be in the
      shown in FIGS. I and 10 of the present application.
                                                                         7 in Main. The tip 20 and mounting
      form illustrated in FIGS. I to 17 or in the form shown in FIG.
                                                   kind of similar surgical device.
      body 70 can be customized to fit into any
                                                               drawings illustrate the principles, preferred
                The foregoing description and accompanying
                                                                  However, the invention should not be
       embodiments and modes of operation of the invention.
                                                                    discussed above. Additional variations of
       construed as being limited to the particular embodiments
                                                                 by those skilled in the art.
       the embodiments discussed above will be appreciated
                                                                should be regarded as illustrative rather than
                 Therefore, the above-described embodiments
                                                            that variations to those embodiments can be
5       restrictive. Accordingly, it should be appreciated
                                                                   the scope of the invention as defined by
        made by those skilled in the art without departing from
         the following claims.

                                                  25
Claims:
1. A switch of a device, comprising:
a hollow body defining an interior cavity;
a switching element having a switching axis and movably disposed within the interior cavity of
the hollow body along the switching axis to define:
         a first position along the switching axis; and
         a second position along the switching axis, the second position being different from the
         first position;
a biasing element disposed about the switching element and imparting a longitudinal biasing
force to the switching element to place the switching element in one of the first position and the
second position until an external force imparted to the switching element along the switching
axis exceeds the biasing force thereby causing the switching element to move to the other one of
the first position and the second position;
a biasing force-adjusting element cooperatively engaged with the biasing element, wherein a
magnitude of the biasing force is adjustable using the biasing force-adjusting element; and
an electrically-conductive contact coupled to the switching element and defining:
         a first switching state when the switching element is in the first position; and
         a second switching state when the switching element is in the second position.
2.       The switch according to claim 1, wherein:
the first position is a switch-making position;
the second position is a switch-breaking position;
the first switching state is a switch-making state; and
the second switching state is a switch-breaking state.
3.       The switch according to claim 1, wherein the switching element is a piston.
4.       The switch according to claim 1, wherein the electrically-conductive contact is physically

                                                 26
coupled to the switching element and is movable along the switching axis between the first
position and the second position.
5.      The switch according to claim 1, wherein the biasing force-adjusting element comprises
a stop element defining a second interior cavity in which the switching element is movably
disposed, the stop element being at least partly disposed in the interior cavity of the hollow body.
6.      The switch according to claim 5, wherein:
the switching element further comprises a bias contact; and
the biasing element is disposed about at least a portion of the switching element between the stop
element and the bias contact.
7.      The switch according to claim 6. wherein the magnitude of the biasing force is dependent
upon a longitudinal position of the stop element within the interior cavity of the hollow body.
8.      The switch according to claim 2, wherein the biasing element imparts the biasing force
to place the switching element in the switch-making position to create a normally closed switch
configuration.
9.      The switch according to claim 2, wherein a distance between the switch-making position
and the switch-breaking position is between approximately 25 Pim and approximately 750 gm.
10.     The switch according to claim 2, wherein a distance between the switch-making position
and the switch-breaking position is between approximately 75 pm and approximately 200 pmm.
11.     The switch according to claim 1, wherein the electrically-conductive              contact is
electrically insulated from the hollow body and the switching element.
12.     The switch according to claim 1, further comprising an electric indication circuit:
electrically connected to the switching element and the electrically-conductive contact; and
having an indicator operable to transmit state-change information to signal a user that a state
change of the switching element has occurred.
13.     The switch according to claim 6, wherein the biasing element is a compression spring

                                                 27
compressed between the bias contact and the stop element around the switching element to bias
the switching element in a direction away from the stop element.
14.     A switch of a device, comprising:
a hollow body defining an interior cavity;
a switching element having a switching axis and movably disposed within the interior cavity of
the hollow body along the switching axis to define:
        a switch-making position along the switching axis; and
        a switch-breaking position along the switching axis;
a biasing element disposed about the switching element and imparting a longitudinal biasing
force to the switching element to place the switching element in one of the switch-making
position and the switch-breaking position until an external force imparted to the switching
element along the switching axis exceeds the biasing force thereby causing the switching element
to move to the other one of the switch-making position and the switch-breaking position;
a biasing force-adjusting element cooperatively engaged with the biasing element, wherein a
magnitude of the biasing force is adjustable using the biasing force-adjusting element; and
an electrically-conductive contact coupled to the switching element and defining:
        a switch-making state when the switching element is in the switch-making position; and
        a switch-breaking state when the switching element is in the switch-breaking position.
15.     The switch according to claim 14, wherein the switching element is a piston.
16.     The switch according to claim 14, wherein the biasing force-adjusting element comprises
a stop element defining a second interior cavity in which the switching element is movably
disposed, the stop element being at least partly disposed in the interior cavity of the hollow body.
17.     The switch according to claim 16, wherein:
the switching element further comprises a bias contact; and
the biasing element is disposed about at least a portion of the switching element between the stop

                                              28
element and the bias contact.
18.     The switch according to claim 17, wherein the magnitude of the biasing force is
dependent upon a longitudinal position of the stop element within the interior cavity of the
hollow body.
19.     The switch according to claim 16, wherein the biasing element is a compression spring
compressed between the bias contact and the stop element around the switching element to bias
the switching element in a direction away from the stop element.

<removed-date>    <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2018-03-12 21:00 AEST

<removed-date>    <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2018-03-12 21:00 AEST

<removed-date>    <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2018-03-12 21:00 AEST

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
  <removed-apn> <removed-date>

<removed-date>    <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2018-03-12 21:00 AEST

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
  <removed-apn> <removed-date>

<removed-date>    <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2018-03-12 21:00 AEST

<removed-date>    <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2018-03-12 21:00 AEST

<removed-date>    <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2018-03-12 21:00 AEST

<removed-date>    <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2018-03-12 21:00 AEST

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
  <removed-apn> <removed-date>

<removed-date>    <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2018-03-12 21:00 AEST

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
  <removed-apn> <removed-date>

<removed-date>    <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2018-03-12 21:00 AEST

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
  <removed-apn> <removed-date>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
  <removed-apn> <removed-date>

<removed-date>    <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2018-03-12 21:00 AEST

