                                         ABSTRACT
             A system, method and computer program product are provided for forecasting
the transaction costs of a trade using empirical data and user-defined modeling
constraints based on real-time data regarding changes in market conditions. In
preferred embodiments, the invention acts as a forecaster whereby it accepts inputs
from customers and identifies real-time market analytics, and provides dynamically
adjusted ex ante cost estimates and metrics for the prevailing market conditions.
Specific cost estimation and optimization algorithms can be provided to model
transaction costs of a specific trade based on empirical data and real-time variables.
                                              37
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

TITLE OF THE INVENTION
SYSTEMS, METHODS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS FOR ADAPTIVE
TRANSACTION COST ESTIMATION
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
[0001]          This invention relates generally to electronic securities trading. More
particularly, the invention relates to systems, methods, and computer program products
for optimizing securities trading strategies using, inter alia, estimated transaction costs
and market data (both historical and real-time).
Background of the Related Art
[0002]          In electronic trading, securities portfolio transactions typically incur
transaction costs, and the minimization of these costs has been a long-standing aim of
securities traders. Transaction costs may be large, especially when compared to gross
returns, and thus, might substantially reduce or even eliminate the notional returns of a
particular investment. Thus, there is a need to develop optimal trading strategies that
minimize trading costs and/or some other objective criterion.
[0003]          To this end, statistical and mathematical forecasting models have been
developed in an attempt to estimate the transaction costs of a proposed trade prior to its
execution. Such models typically build upon known empirical facts about trading costs.
For example, empirical studies have established that costs increase with trade difficulty,
a factor systematically related to order size (relative to average trading volumes), trade
direction (BUYS vs. SELLS), firm size (Market Capitalization), risk (e.g., the volatility
of security returns), liquidity (average daily share volume, spread), and price level.
[0004]           However, existing statistical and mathematical forecasting models
suffer from the inability to perform comprehensive and accurate analyses of
transaction costs because they fail to adapt to intraday fluctuations in market
conditions and rely on the assumption of market equilibrium, i.e., market neutrality.
Also, many forecasters rely on structured mathematical or econometric models that
                                                 1

require changes to the specification or estimation techniques to adapt to changes in
the statistical properties or behavior patterns in the market. Further, these models
calculate strategies before an order execution is started and assume that one follows
the strategy independent of any changes in the realized market conditions.
[0005]                       Traditional models do not adequately consider the prevailing market
sentiments in assessing the transaction costs of certain trades. Therefore, a
forecasting model is desirable that adequately considers real-time data and intraday
fluctuations in market conditions, and is adaptive to user inputs.
[0006]                        In particular, a model is desirable that recommends an optimal trading
strategy based on both trader's input and real-time market conditions. The model
should be capable of updating transaction cost estimates throughout the trade
execution horizon. In order to meet these needs and to overcome deficiencies in the
field, and to provide other non-obvious features and advantages, embodiments of the
present invention includes systems, methods and computer program products that
forecast the transaction costs of a proposed trade based on user-selected
constraints and real-time data. Embodiments of the invention can also provide an
optimized trading strategy to satisfy user-defined constraints.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007]                        Embodiments of the present invention provides systems, methods and
computer program products for adaptive transaction cost estimation. In one
embodiment of the present invention, the systems, methods and/or computer program
products are seamlessly integrated into existing trading technology architectures, such
that outputs may be accessed by other systems or products, and such that the trading
strategies may be executed automatically or manually through one or more
electronically accessible trade venues.
[0008]                        In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is
provided a computerized method comprising the steps of:
             a.             receiving at a trade optimization server, electronic information defining a
proposed order to trade one or more assets on an electronic exchange or marketplace,
                                                             2
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570 AU 2

wherein the electronic information is stored, by the trade optimization server, in an
electronic data storage facility and comprises, for each of the one or more assets in the
proposed order to trade, information identifying:
                            1.      security name, symbol, or identifier,
                            ii.     transaction side, and
                            iii.    total quantity to be traded;
             b.             receiving at the trade optimization server, electronic market data
comprising historical market data and current market data relating to the one or more
assets;
             c.             determining, through the use of an optimization algorithm at the trade
optimization server, an optimum trading strategy and a transaction cost estimate for
implementing the proposed order, based upon the proposed trade order, at least one
pre-selected trading parameter, and the electronic market data;
             d.             outputting an indication of a quantity of the one or more assets to be
traded in an upcoming time period according to the determined optimum trading
strategy and the transaction cost estimate, the quantity to be traded being less than or
equal to the total quantity to be traded, and
             e.             receiving at the trade optimization server, a potential trade imbalance of
an upcoming time period, wherein the potential trade imbalance is based at least on the
electronic information reflecting a proposed trade order and the received electronic
market data;
             wherein the optimum trading strategy and the transaction cost estimate for
implementing the proposed order are each additionally based on the potential trade
imbalance of an upcoming time period. It is contemplated that in other embodiments of
the current invention, the individual steps of the first aspect listed above, may be
performed in various orders or not at all.
[0009]                         In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention,
there is provided a system for adaptive transaction cost estimation in an
electronic trading system, comprising:
              a trading optimization server configured to receive electronic information from
an electronic trading interface of a trader, the electronic information defining a
                                                             3
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570 AU 2

proposed order to trade one or more assets on an electronic exchange or marketplace,
to store the electronic information in an electronic data storage facility, to receive
electronic market data comprising historical market data and current market data
relating to the one or more assets, to automatically determine, through the use of an
optimization algorithm, an optimum trading strategy and a transaction cost estimate for
implementing the proposed order, based upon the proposed trade order, at least one
pre-selected trading parameter, and the electronic market data, and to output to the
electronic trading interface electronic information defining an optimum trading
schedule including the quantity of the one or more assets to be traded in one or more
upcoming time period(s) according to the determined optimum trading strategy and the
transaction cost estimate so as to cause an interactive display of said trading strategy
within the electronic trading interface that can be executed by the trader;
              wherein the electronic information comprises, for each of the one or more
assets in the proposed order to trade, information identifying:
                              i.     security name, symbol, or identifier,
                              ii.    transaction side, and
                              iii.   total quantity to be traded.
[0010]                       In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention, there is
provided a non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon
computer                executable instructions for adaptive transaction cost estimation when
executed by performing the following operations:
               a.             receiving at a trade optimization server, from an electronic trading
interface of a trader, electronic information defining a proposed order to trade one or
more assets on an electronic exchange or marketplace, wherein the electronic
information is stored, by the trade optimization server, in an electronic data storage
facility and comprises, for each of the one or more assets in the proposed order to
trade, information identifying:
                            i.      security name, symbol, or identifier,
                           ii.      transaction side, and
                          iii.      total quantity to be traded;
                                                              4
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

              b.              receiving at the trade optimization server, electronic market data
comprising historical market data and current market data relating to the one or
more assets;
              c.              automatically determining, through the use of an optimization
algorithm executed by the trade optimization server, an optimum trading strategy
and a transaction cost estimate for implementing the proposed order, based upon
the proposed trade order, at least one pre- selected trading parameter, and the
electronic market data; and
              d.              outputting to the electronic trading interface electronic information
defining an optimum trading schedule including the quantity of the one or more assets
to be traded in one or more upcoming time period(s) according to the determined
optimum trading strategy and the transaction cost estimate so as to cause an
interactive display of said trading strategy within the electronic trading interface that
can be executed by the trader.
[0010a]                     In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is
provided a system for adaptive transaction cost estimation, comprising:
              means for receiving at a trade optimization server from an electronic trading
interface of a trader, electronic information defining a proposed order to trade one or
more assets on an electronic exchange or marketplace, wherein the electronic
information is stored, by the trade optimization server, in an electronic data storage
facility and comprises, for each of the one or more assets in the proposed order to
trade, information identifying:
               i.             security name, symbol, or identifier,
              ii.            transaction side, and
              iii.           total quantity to be traded;
              means for receiving at the trade optimization server, electronic market data
comprising historical market data and current market data relating to the one or more
assets;
              means for determining, through the use of an optimization algorithm at the
trade optimization server, an optimum trading strategy and a transaction cost
estimate for implementing the proposed order, based upon the proposed trade order,
                                                              5
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570 AU 2

at least one pre-selected trading parameter, and the electronic market data;
             means for outputting the determined optimum trading strategy and the
transaction cost estimate to the trading interface so as to cause an interactive display
of the optimum trading strategy to be made within the trading interface; and
              means for executing the trading strategy when selecting in the trading
interface.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0011]                        Figure 1 is a block diagram of an exemplary trading system in which
aspects of the present invention may be applied.
[0012]                        Figure 2 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method for performing
steps of an embodiment of the present invention.
[0013]                        Figures 3-5 are screen shots of exemplary user interfaces according to
embodiments of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 [0014]                      Embodiments of the present invention provide systems, methods and
computer program products for adaptive transaction cost estimation. The present
invention may include features allowing users to adapt the transaction cost model
based upon their own beliefs regarding the market conditions that would prevail in
the near future. Because market conditions affect trading costs, and therefore impact
market participant trading strategies, effective cost estimates should be adaptive to
prevailing market conditions.
[0014a]                     The present invention may be integrated into or be coupled with known
trading systems, trading venues, and other systems and applications used in
effecting and managing securities trading and trade data. Embodiments of the
present invention may be used in connection with many different types of asset
classes, including, but not limited to: securities, index futures, options, F/X, etc.
Embodiments of the present invention may be used in trading exchanges across the
                                                           6
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

world, such as, but not limited to: New York Stock Exchange, Australian Securities
Exchange, Hong Kong Stock Exchange, Shanghai Stock Exchange, and London
Stock Exchange.
 [0015]                       Unlike most pre-trade models, the transaction cost model of the
present invention (the "TC model") does not rely on any assumption of market
neutrality or market equilibrium. That is, the TC model does not assume that
estimated pre-trade costs are entirely based on one's own trading strategy and the
associated price impact. The assumption of most pre-trade models is that the trade
imbalance without one's own trading would be zero.
[0016]                        Embodiments of the present invention eliminate the necessity of the
market neutrality assumption. The function/distribution H considers the effects of
one's trading strategy by relating a given trade size to the trade imbalance and other
market conditions in the market over a certain time period. The present system and
method allows for a market to be out of equilibrium even in the absence of one's own
trading, and also allows for the market to potentially react to one's own trading, e.g.,
due to herding behavior. Additionally, the present system and method allows a user
to input one's own beliefs into the model, for example, through the
function/distribution H. These inputs change the empirical distributions underlying
the model and in turn change the calculated optimal solution (strategy).
[0017]                       According to a preferred embodiment, the present invention includes
special purpose electronic facilities for modeling two cost components: (1) costs
within a time period or bin, (effective spread, often referred to as temporary price
impact), and (2) costs across bins (law of motion, often referred to as permanent
price impact).                   In contrast to most transaction cost models, the TC model does not
rely exclusively on modeling the first and second moment of the cost components,
but rather, models the entire distribution of F (the law of price motion) and G (the
effective spread within a bin) using a non-or semi-parametric approach.
[0018]                        Further, the TC model does not model the effect of one's own trading
on price and costs directly. The direct price impact of one's own trade size on prices
and costs is actually removed. Instead, there is an indirect impact on prices/costs
through the effect of one's own trading on the market trade imbalance and/or other
                                                             7
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570 AU 2

market attributes. The function/distribution H of the trade imbalances and other
market attributes is estimated directly from execution data, while F and G can be
estimated using publicly available Level 1 or Level 2 data. The function/distribution H
can include not only trade imbalances but also volume, volatility, spread, depth, to
capture the effect of a client's trading even better and, most importantly, how the
market participant affects various aspects of the stock dynamics.
[0019]                       When provided with an order size and the existing market sentiment,
the present system and method is configured to calculate a cost distribution of
possible outcomes including the mean, E, and the expected average execution price,
avg, over the specified time frame. The TC model can also suggest optimal bounds
for the number of shares to be traded in the specified time interval. Thus, the TC
model can provide not only the ex-ante optimal strategy but also the simulated ex
post strategies for different outcomes. This feature of the model allows a trader to
understand and assess the acceptable magnitude of deviation without facing the risk
of executing a trade and incurring an unacceptable adverse affect due to opportunity
costs from normal market conditions.
[0020]                       The present system and method can be utilized to trade more or less
aggressively, depending on whether the stock is moving up or down. This can be
particularly useful in volatile markets where rapid price movements can result in
significantly higher costs and traders must complete orders at the best price
possible.
 [0021]                       Regarding modeling constraints, the present system and method can
be configured to allow for modeling tail behavior (via the expected shortfall) and
accommodate the possibility that the order does not have to be fully completed, by
specifying a threshold for the expected costs below which order execution is
possible, and estimating the expected amount that can be filled.
 [0022]                       The present system and method includes a dynamic and adaptive
model. Real-time data information can be utilized as soon as it becomes available
and, as described in further detail below, optimizations can be run repeatedly over
specified time intervals, thereby adapting an optimal trading strategy to the most up
to-date information available. It is not assumed that one would follow a pre
                                                        8
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570 AU 2

determined trading strategy identified prior to initiating the order execution without
considering changes in the market conditions. Any strategy that may be optimal and
appropriate at the moment when the order is initiated will no longer be optimal even
a short time later as market conditions fluctuate and one observes the realized
executions, which can be more or less than what the strategy called for, resulting in
the need for modification of the execution strategy.
[0023]                       The present system and method can explicitly account for signals about
the prevailing market conditions during the execution of an order. Signals may be
constructed simultaneously for many variables including volatility, volume, spread,
and depth of the market. Some of these real-time variables can be specialized in the
form of "smart indicators." Smart indicators are discrete variables that provide
indication of abnormal market conditions. Co-owned/co-pending U.S. Patent
Application No. 11/476,895, titled System and Method for Generating Real-Time
Smart Indicators to Indicate Abnormal Conditions in a Trading List or Portfolio, and
filed on June 29, 2006, includes a detailed discussion of smart indicators, the entire
contents of which are herein incorporated by reference. The present system and
method can combine the smart indicator values with the set of definitions describing
how this information can be embedded into the optimization problem. For instance,
the TC model suggests that abnormally high volatility surprises will often lead to
higher than normal costs in the following short time frame, suggesting that trading
should be slowed down.
[0024]                        Unlike models utilized in the prior art, which define an objective
function as a trade-off between expected costs and the standard deviation of costs,
the present system and method allows for flexibility in the formulation of the objective
function.
 [0025]                      As can be readily understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art, in
alternative embodiments of the present invention, proposed trade executions can be
automatically transferred within the network from one server operating according to a
first trade strategy algorithm to another server having a second different trade
strategy algorithm.
                                                           9
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

[0026]                        Figure 1 is a block diagram of a simplified trading system in which
embodiments of the present invention may be applied.
[0027]                        Referring to Figure 1, system 100 may include a plurality of specially
programmed computers at various locations, which may be coupled with an
electronic data network 120. For example, computer client 102 can be a networked
computer configured to communicate desired trades or trade orders.                      In one
embodiment of the present invention, trading desk 104 might be associated, for
example, with a buy-side trading desk at a buy-side trading institution. The trading
desk may include one or more computers coupled with electronic data network 120
and configured to execute various trade desk programs, such as, order management
systems (OMS), execution management systems (EMS), and to generate trade
analytics. Trade systems may be used to manage long-term and short-term trading
goals, and to connect electronically to electronic trade venues, such as the New York
Stock Exchange (NYSE) 108, ITG's POSIT@ 110, over-the-counter (OTC) venues
112 (including, but not limited to, NASDAQ), or electronic communications networks
(ECNs) 114. The aforementioned list of electronic trade venues is not all
encompassing, and in no way limits the range of trade venues that the current
system and method might integrate or communicate with. For example, the current
system and method contemplates the use of indications-of-interest, and thus might
integrate or communicate with an indication-of-interest venue, such as ITG's POSIT
ALERT.
[0028]                       The electronic data network 120 may include public or private
networks, electronic data networks, packeted networks, wireless or other
communication services, etc. In one embodiment of the present invention, the
electronic data network 120 might include the Internet and/or a local area network.
Server 118 may be coupled with the electronic data network 120 and may be
configured to perform adaptive transaction cost estimation, as described below in
further detail. The server 118 may have access to various electronic trading venues
(108, 110, 112, 114) through the electronic data network 120. Server 118 may also
be in communication with a database 106. The database 106 may be housed on
                                                           10
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

server 118 or on a separate computer, i.e., a database server. The database 106
may be a relational database, such as an ORACLE database.
 [0029]                      System 100 can include an information provider 116, which may feed
market data to the server 118 through the electronic data network 120.                     Both
historical and real-time trade data may be provided to the server 118. Additionally,
trade data fed from the information provider 116 may also be stored in the database
106, and thus be readily accessible via server 118.
[0030]                       Even though Figure 1 shows only one server 118, it is contemplated
that multiple servers may be provided on the electronic network 120, with each
server running a variety of applications, which may include transaction cost analysis
programs. Likewise, these additional servers may have access to various trading
venues (108, 110,112, 114).
[0031]                       A user may electronically submit a proposed portfolio trade order,
through computer client 102, for analysis, optimization, and/or reconstruction to
server 118. This submission may occur automatically, that is, without explicit action
by the user at the time of the order submission. One way this submission might be
implemented is through the use of defaults. For example, when a user sends a trade
to OTC 112, via their OMS, it is contemplated that the order might first be transmitted
electronically by default, to server 118 as a proposed order with the goal of
identifying or creating the best strategy for executing the order. Once the optimal
trading strategy has been identified or created, it can be displayed or otherwise
communicated to the user of the system. Further, the user may configure the system
not to display the results of the optimization.                Furthermore, it is contemplated that
once the optimal strategy has been identified, the system may, if designated to do
so, automatically carry out the execution of the order by creating and submitting
electronic orders according to the created/identified optimal strategy.
[0032]                        Figure 2 is a flow diagram detailing steps of an embodiment of the
present invention. Other embodiments of the present invention may utilize all or
some of the steps listed in Figure 2, in the same or a different order. Figure 2 in no
way limits the scope of the present system and method to the steps shown therein
and described below.
                                                          11
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

[0033]                       The steps shown in Figure 2 may be executed iteratively during a
trading period. The trading period can be broken up into smaller sub-periods called
bins. In one embodiment, the present system and method contemplates that the
trading period may be a trading day that is broken into 13 thirty-minute bins. Thus,
the present system and method contemplates that the steps shown in Figure 2 may
be run prior to each bin. However, because the trading circumstances may deviate
during the trading day from what the user expects, the steps shown in Figure 2 may
run on demand (i.e., at any time or continuously) or be automatically triggered by
some event, such as a larger than normal trade.
[0034]                       At step 202, the user of the system (i.e., a portfolio manager, trader, or
other market participant) may input variables regarding the proposed trades that the
user intends to execute. For example, a user could input variables relating to a
desire to BUY 1,000,000 shares of IBM with a LIMIT price of $85.50. Alternatively,
an order may be defined by the following parameter list: ticker, date, order size,
starting bin (s), ending bin (e). These inputs may be entered all at once or multiple
times, and may be changed or updated at any time prior to, during, or after the
trading period, as shown in Figure 2 by the line connecting step 216 to steps 202 and
204.
[0035]                       Additionally, the user may input other parameters that define factors or
preferences that affect the way that the trading will occur. For example, the user
may choose: various levels of acceptable risk, time horizons for trades to be
completed, urgency levels, predicted market conditions, and/or level of discretion
(i.e., what types of orders, market or limit, the user is trading with, and what
percentage of each type of order the user expects to execute). While step 202 is
described above in terms of a user "inputting" information, it is contemplated that
current trading technology may allow for integrations between various systems to
allow for information in one system, such as a user's OMS, to be transmitted into
another system, such as the system of the current invention, with or without manual
intervention by the user. For example, it is contemplated that a user may set
defaults directed to which orders should be accessed and submitted to the system of
the present invention. Likewise, a user may set defaults for the input variables that
                                                          12
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

affect the way in which the trading will occur, as discussed above. For example, if a
particular risk averse user always prefers the lowest level of risk, the current system
and method contemplates that for this user the lowest level of risk may be set
explicitly as a default value.
[0036]                       At step 204, market data may be input into the system of the present
invention. This market data may include both historical market/trading data and real
time market data. Historical market/trading data can include all market data from
trading that has occurred prior to the current trading period, e.g., the current trading
day. By utilizing real-time market optimizing data, functions (e.g., H, G, and F, as
described in greater detail below) may be changed dynamically. Real-time market
data can include data obtained in real time during the current trading period, e.g., the
current trading day or the recent history. While the present system may have
access to a vast bank of market data, not all of the accessible market data must be
utilized. For example, the system may utilize information pertaining to the security
that the user intends to trade and/or other securities that have similar characteristics
and/or trading patterns to the security that the user intends to trade. It is
contemplated that associations between securities may be generated in real-time or
be pre-formed, and based upon characteristics and/or trading patterns of the
securities. These relationships may be stored in one or more electronic data storing
facilities connected to the electronic data network of the present system.
Additionally, it is contemplated that historical data may be weighted depending on
the age/relevance of the trade data. Embodiments of the present invention may
utilize, but are not limited to, market data including: the real-time spread, volume, and
volatility, as well as the historical spread, volume, and volatility, for the particular
security under consideration.
[0037]                       At step 206, the system computes the relationship between the
remaining order size and the market imbalance. This relationship may be computed
utilizing the H Function. The H Function describes the stochastic relationship
between the user's remaining order size and its impact on the market trade
imbalance (the difference between buyer and seller initiated volume) for a certain
sub-period (bin) of the trading period. The remaining order size should be used
                                                        13
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

because this variable will continually decrease due to the iterative nature of the
present system and method.
[0038] In one embodiment of the present invention, the H Function is empirically
estimated from peer group data. This data may include information on trade
executions, and may be stored in a database that may be integrated with or connected
to the system of the present invention, such as ITG's Peer Group Database, as
described in the co-owned/co-pending U.S. Patent Application 10/674,432 titled System
and Method for Estimating Transaction Costs Related to Trading a Security, and filed on
October 1, 2003, the entire content of which is herein incorporated by reference into the
present application. In order to minimize the influence of data that could improperly
skew the results of the H Function, i.e., noise, the securities in the peer group may be
categorized into liquidity groups. For example, the universe of all securities may be split
into four liquidity groups, where the liquidity groups can be defined via the average daily
local currency volume of the universe of all securities.
[0039]                      For each order, the relative order size is determined and compared with
the associated market trade imbalance. For example, when analyzing a one-day order,
the relative order size (S/ADV) is determined by dividing the remaining order size with
the previous day's 21 day median daily dollar volume. This value is compared with the
associated trade imbalance (TI/ADV) determined by finding the difference between the
net BUYS and SELLS volume divided by the previous day's 21 day median daily dollar
volume. Next, the pairs (Si/ADVi, TlI/ADVi) i may be segmented into (1) the
corresponding liquidity group, as described above, and then (2) the relative remaining
order size.
[0040]                      In one embodiment of the present invention, the relative remaining order
size may be determined for each liquidity group separately. For each liquidity group,
the securities universe may be divided into 100 order size buckets. The buckets may
be constructed so that there are enough observations per bucket. For each bucket, all
percentiles (1 though 99) of the conditioned empirical distribution of (TI/ADV) given the
value of x=(S/ADV) may be determined. Additionally, these percentiles may be used to
approximate the conditional mean E(TI/ADVjx) and conditional standard deviation
SDV(TI/ADVIx) of each bucket.
                                                           14
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

[0041]                     Next, the parametric forms of functions e(x)=E(TI/ADVIx) and
sdv(x)=SDV(TI/ADVIx) may be estimated. These parameterizations may be
approximated using the following functions:
                                                          X,   X <x
                                                                 x,
 e(x) =E(TI/ADV x)                                        (x7x
                                           ,8 , -    I1+                        else
                                                                             ,X-X
                                                            a, -x,
 sdx(x)=SDV(TIADV x)
                                                       =   IY~d,
                                                               y     +Ypsd *-X -(Xsdl
                                                                                            IX     X    d,.l
                                                                                                         x dvl <x    Xdv.
                                                 {c   Csdv
                                                        - 1+   8sdv '0 sdv,1 '      sdv,2 -   sdvl1(a
                                                                                                    L/Y
                                                                                                              -1   sdv,2) dv2     es
                                                                                                                              ,(~Velse
                                                                                        q~dv.2 'Csdv
where
 C~d,  =SDV (TI/AD V                xsdv,.2    Y dv + P        (sd v,2 -     Xsdv
 Pe (0,1), a,              e  [0.1,1] and x,      E {avgSize,...,avgSizej(0 } are the parameters that need
to be estimated for the function e(x) (the average sizes are the mean relative order
sizes in each bucket and thus ordered), and
 P      edE (0,1), as1           E [0.1,1], asdv,2 E [0.1,1],       Xsd v , 1 I  sd,2 E{avgSize,...,         avgSize 0 1and ysd, are the
parameters that need to be estimated for the function sdv(x) (yd, is the average trade
imbalance value associated to                         xsdv,1 ). All parameters can be estimated using standard
estimation techniques, e.g., grid searches.
[0042]                     In one embodiment of the present invention, once the computation of the
H Function, i.e. the stochastic relationship between the user's remaining order size and
the market trade imbalance, is completed, a potential trade imbalance is fed into step
210. This allows the G and F Functions to reflect the relationship determined in step
206, and thus alleviate the assumption of market neutrality and equilibrium in the G and
F Functions. Additionally, the H Function may be used to determine the potential
                                                                         15
9672265 1 (GHMatters P88570.AU.2

volume, potential volatility, potential spread, potential depth, and other qualities
characterizing the market conditions relevant for execution of the potential order.
[0043]                      At step 210, the system, computes the relationship between the market
trade imbalance and the Law of Motion of Prices. Whereas step 208 is related to the
temporary price impact, step 210 is related to the permanent price impact. The F
Function determines the relationship between the market trade imbalance and the Law
of Motion of Prices, i.e., the permanent price impact. The F Function depends on the
market trade imbalance, and (through the data output by the H Function) on the
remaining order size. Additionally, the F Function may utilize historical stock-specific
characteristics and real-time market conditions.
[0044]                      The F Function can be is defined as:        ='      -      1    , where    a
is the volume-weighted average execution price in bin j of datof security a and U," is
the historical volatility of stock a in bin j. The F Function, of the current embodiment,
may utilize the following historical stock-specific characteristics: average volume,
average volatility, average spread, and the previous day's closing price. The F Function
also may take into consideration and compensate for real-time market conditions, such
as: surprises in a security's volume, volatility, and/or spread. The output of this step is
the distribution (per bin or per trading period) of the permanent price impact.
[0045]                      At step 208, the system computes the relationship between the market
trade imbalance, and, in some embodiments, computes other market conditions and the
effective spread. One purpose of this step is to determine the temporary price impact of
trading the remaining order size. The G Function can be utilized to determine the
relationship between the market trade imbalance and the effective spread. The G
Function depends on the market trade imbalance, and (through the data output by the H
Function) on the remaining order size. Additionally, the G Function may utilize historical
stock-specific characteristics and real-time market conditions.
[0046]                      The G Function can be defined as: Ga"  = Ij  ' pa ' i -- -- _F, 1J
                                                                                               , where
        is the volume-weighted average execution price in bin j'6f'day i'f security a and
   1_.J
 &," is the historical volatility of stock a in bin j. The G Function may utilize the following
historical stock-specific characteristics: average volume, average volatility, average
                                                         16
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

spread, and/or the previous day's closing price. The G Function may also take into
consideration and compensate for real-time market conditions, such as: unexpected
security volume (i.e. lower than average, higher than average, etc...), volatility, and/or
spread. The output of this step is the distribution (per bin or per trading period) of the
realized effective spread. However, when compared to the G Function, the F Function
may rely less on the real-time spread. For both the G and F Functions, the real-time
volatility and volume are typically the most important of the real-time market conditions.
[0047]                      In one embodiment of the present invention, once steps 208 and 210 have
been completed, i.e., the joint distribution of the F and G functions is obtained, the
outputs are fed into step 212, where an optimal trading strategy may be computed prior
to each bin. The optimal trading strategy may or may not be a projection that extends
past the upcoming bin. That is, because the remaining order size and trading
environment may change during the trading period, it is not necessarily efficient to
output trading strategies that will need to be subsequently revised based on the activity
during the upcoming bins. However, situations may arise that call for projected trading
strategies extending past the upcoming bin.
[0048]                      In one embodiment of the present invention, the objective function used in
the optimization of step 212, may be configured to solve for the optimal trading strategy
in the most efficient fashion (for example, in the smallest possible number of iterations).
The objective function should also ensure stability, such that optimal trading strategy
does not change drastically when the inputs are changed slightly.
[0049]                      In the discussion of the optimization functions we use the notation: e = T,
i.e., the close of the terminal bin, and remaining order size, N, and s=0, 1, 2,,,, T. Let
 (      J      T    be a given specified strategy from starting bin (s) to ending bin (e), (or T if the
ending bin is the close of trading period). MC, is the set of parameters characterizing
the actual market conditions observed at time s (which is the start time of bin (s)), and
SC, is the set of parameters containing the stock-specific characteristics in bin (s) (e.g.,
liquidity group, spread, ADV, volatility). The market conditions at the starting bin (MC,)
are given by the previously observed volume, volatility, spread, and previous day's
volatility. (MCs) are dynamically updated while (SCs) are pre-determined. In one
                                                           17
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

embodiment of the current invention, the market conditions may be summarized using
the following scale:
                               -1:      unconditioned
                                 0:     low volatility, low volume
                                 1:     low volatility, medium volume
                                 2:     low volatility, high volume
                                 3:     medium volatility, low volume
                                4:      medium volatility, medium volume
                                 5:     medium volatility, high volume
                                 6:     high volatility, low volume
                                 7:     high volatility, medium volume
                                 8:     high volatility, high volume
[0050]                      In one embodiment of the present invention, the system can compute the
mean and the projected percentiles of the associated distribution of costs, by combining
the inputs from step 202 (e.g., starting bin (s), ending bin (e) (or T if e is the closing bin
of the trading period, i.e., e=T=12 for U.S. trading if the bins have 30-minute interval
lengths), order size Ns, ticker or stock-specific historical characteristics SCs, and the
prevailing market conditions MCS) at the start of each bin (s) with the trading strategy
(xj)j=s....T, where the cost is defined as:
                      xi          -NP
 Cost =                                   .
                            NP
Thus, the system can compute the mean and the percentiles using the following
equations: E (Cost                  (x)       N,,S,,MC
and (PCtd             (Cost (X)             T ,S,,MC
[0051]                      The current system and method contemplates a number of alternative
objective functions that may be used in step 212. However, none of the functions
described below are intended to limit the scope of the current invention in any way.
                                                               18
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

[0052]                    A basic optimization function may be utilized in finding the optimal trading
strategy at step 212. One basic optimization function contemplated in the current
inventions is: (x,*) =arg min                    E (Cost, (x1 )       ,N,,SC,,MC,)J. While this solution
provides a suitable answer, more precise solutions may be derived using more complex
optimization functions. The following five optimization functions are more complex than
the basic optimization function, and yield a richer framework of analysis. Each of the
functions listed below have been contemplated as suitable for performing step 212.
[0053]                    A two step optimization procedure may be used in step 212. The following
is one embodiment of the two step optimization:
Step 1:
 (x*) = arg min                  E(Cost, (x        1     ,,SC,MC,        C, = E(Cost, (x*)   , NSC,,MC,
Step 2: Find solutions (x                              and (x))    1      such that:
 E (Costs (x)                       N SC MC,)+A
            = E (Costs          (xloU )      , N , SCs , MC)
            = E(Cost (x "))                 ,N ,SC,
and xl'o') <x* <x uP) for some A > 0 that is supplied to the optimization problem as well.
It is likely that users of the system of the current invention will have the best intuition
when viewing the results of the optimization program presented in total dollars, and
thus A would probably vary with the order size (more precisely, A(N,)                      4 as N,  1'.
[0054]                    Alternatively, risk averse objective functions may be utilized in the
optimization program at step 212.                       One contemplated objective function may be as
follows:
  (x               = arg X in E u(Costs )x                  .   N,,1SCI , MCI
                                                                19
9672265 1 (GHMtters P88570 AU 2

where u(z) is supposed to be a convex function. The following two functions are
examples:
           a)               u(z)
                                  7
                            u(z)=z      ifz<a
           b)
                                  bz+8-z,     else
[0055]                     Alternatively, an optimization function may include value-at-risk (VaR)
constraints. These constraints allow a user to strike a balance between minimizing cost
and risk. One contemplated approach in quantifying risk is to specify a maximum or
critical level of value-at-risk (VaRsor't) that should not be exceeded with more than
probability a. Both VaRscrt and a may be provided by the user; however, VaRcrit and a
can be set as defaults. For example, in one embodiment a will be set to a default value
of 0.05 if not user specified. While VaRscrit may be represented in various forms, it is
likely most useful when it is measured in dollars and translated to basis points by the
system. The following is an example of the optimization function that includes VaR
constraints:
                                        N,SC,,MCj given that          P(Cost, > VaR r'")   a.
 ( min, ECost x
[0056]                     In order to evaluate the probability, P(Cost, > VaR'")    a, it is necessary
to use        (PCtd        (Cost   x      ,,,SMC,                . Unfortunately, for some values of
VaRsc't and a, the optimization problem listed above has no solution. When a non
solution event occurs, the system at step 212 may follow any of the following courses of
action: (1) do nothing and provide an error message to the user, (2) allow the user to
change (increase) the VaR parameter VaRscrit, or (3) inform the user what the maximal
                                                          20
9672265 1 (GHMatters P88570.AU.2

number of shares N1""" = Ns"" ( VaRsci) (order size) that can be filled, and for which
an optimal strategy can be provided would be. Obviously, when the third option is
chosen,            [IlIed   < N,.
[0057]                     Alternatively, the optimization problem may be specified to have a Markov
decision process structure. Rather than provide one and only one optimal number of
shares to be traded, it may be beneficial to provide an interval in which the "actual"
optimal number of shares to be traded in bin (s) can be found (with a very large
probability).
[0058]                     In utilizing the optimization function may have a Markov decision process
structure, let F1 (TI,,SC,,MC)                         and G.    TI,,SC 1,MC)            be the F and G functions, as
described above, for j=s+i, T. The following describes a way to provide a confidence
interval of optimal number of shares to trade in bin(s) assuming that the future outcome
of market conditions in bin(s) is known.
[0059]                     In order to simplify the problem and speed up performance, the system
may only sample the volume and volatility surprises vol|"''''' and volas"''''' , while the
remaining market conditions are held fixed at their prevailing values. Therefore,
MC, =(otherMCvos"l'*,vola p'se ) .
[0060]                     When using this optimization technique, the user may be allowed to select
a confidence interval for volume and volatility surprises in bin(s) (or alternatively use
plus or minus one standard deviation based on the ITG proprietary smart indicator
distributions). Thus,
 vol"";r'"+ seE[e up
            V                             s-rrisupj
                       o mrrslo ,vl1u"'''""
                      vol+"';"'""                                 urie
                                                    ""] and vola s"'+'i"e   (vola"'
                                                                          s-i-e~owI         srseu
                                                                                           " ,volas+    ;r I I,
where        10saee      o        1I1ple-                     iprs                 11 s7e         sa/e-       and
[0061]                     Next, the following five optimization programs are solved:
                                                                    21
9672265 1 (GHMatters P88570.AU.2

 *                  use the regular values vol,"''v'" and                   VOla2', 1 I         75 ,   to determine
(X; )~      ,   argx min  (Cos,        (x*)           NSQ           otherMC , vo,"                      vola"r'e
                    use vl 1 5 9 1   o  and volaslls'Y~I(A, and use F'.( Ti(I                           .C I        and
G1 (.TIj,SCS,,MS+ 1 ) instead of F1 (. T1,SQ ,MC5,) and G.1 (. TII,SCS,,MCS)                                          for j=s+1,
                                                  E (Cos (x lowdo)]\ ,c OthrwVourprisejo    iosuirso
                    use    volpr~se~ow  a nd vofl)115.5 and use F                    (     TijI          CII        and
G1 (-TIj,SCS,,MCSI) instead of F1. (.TII,SCS,,MCS)                          and G.1 (-TII,SCS,,MCS)                  for j=s+1,
    (,upIosP  =  ( Cos   5 (x>P061"u).j,    Tv S', otherMV1C5        ,VolS,,,rpfseU ) , VOlasurreup
                                                                                         1
      *             use        _I~~ss "")and                   aoa~~~ an duse F(. j TISS, I CI) and
G1 (.TIj,SCS,MS,+ 1) instead of F1 (. TII,SCS,,MCS) and G.1 (.TIPSSCS,MCS,) forj=s+1,
                    C~ (Cot 5 (1 uPuP)__  ,N   ,5, otherM(1C         ,Vo27rpnse~u, vola             pise~lo)
      1oII          us72e       IGMtes and       4S44AUI.S

[0062]                      Alternatively, step 212 may utilize an optimization technique that is
conditioned on the market trade imbalances in the start bin(s). Again, rather than
provide one and only one optimal number of shares to be traded, it may be beneficial to
provide an interval in which the "actual" optimal number of shares to be traded in bin(s)
can be found (with a very large probability). However, instead of varying volume and
volatility surprises, as discussed above with regard to optimization functions that include
Markov decision process structures, it is possible to optimize by varying the market
trade imbalances.
[0063]                      The functions are as follows:
 E (Cost, x,              =,_T'A     N SC ,,MC, )
 = E (E (Cost, (x,)                          N,, SC,, MC, , TI,,, (x)               ,, SC,, MC)
 = E(E (Cost, (x, )                         ,SC,,IMC ,TII)                      ,SC,, MC
Thus, it is possible to compare how the optimal strategy changes based on changes in
 TI 1 . More precisely, following five optimizations:
     "       run regular optimization, i.e.
               x                 =argx       min E (Costs (x        T,         SC7, MC,         (
      "*(                        7   =argx    min E(Costs(x                                    I = PctH )       x
                                   .1"                                 ,TsI       C"M       T S           JJs   X  I    .~
                    .            7) =argx     min  E (Cost, x               ,N,SC,MCTI            =PctH       (      2 )
                                  .1~~~~~~
                                       jjs,                             T         C M       T                     .js
                                     =argxmin E(Cost          x                              I     PctH       (X7
              (X                 7   =)argmin E Costx                       ,N,SC,,MC, TI,        =PctH90       x
[0064]                      Regardless of the optimization technique used, at step 214, the optimal
trading strategy for the upcoming bin (or the multiple upcoming bins, depending on the
configuration of the system) may be, due in part to the possibility of non-solution events,
an output to the user (or alternatively to another system for manual or automatic
                                                                    23
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

execution of the optimal trading strategy). Once the optimal trading strategy has been
displayed to the user, the user may execute the strategy utilizing known trading systems
and techniques. The output of the system may be a clear description of how many
shares should be traded in the next bin to best achieve the overall trade objective. For
example, one output could be an instruction: "BUY 100,000 IBM during the next bin."
Additionally, confidence levels can be provided for the trade strategy output.
Additionally, the system may output the transaction cost for executing the trade, as
being determined previously at step 212. Further, an additional strategy output may be
provided by the system, such as at what minimum or maximum prices the trades should
be executed.
[0065]                     At step 216, the system determines if all of the shares of the order have
been traded. If there are no remaining shares to be traded, the algorithm terminates at
step 218. However, if at step 216 it is determined that there are remaining shares to be
traded, the system continues to steps 202 and 204 and completes another iteration for
the upcoming bin. The inputs at step 202 may be adjusted at any time, including the
time prior to, during, or after a bin.
[0066]                     Provided the order size and the existing market sentiment have been
specified, the model of the current invention may calculate certain characteristics of the
cost distribution of possible outcomes, including the mean, E, and the expected average
execution price, avgP, over the specified time frame. This model may also suggest
optimal bounds for the number of shares to be traded in the specified time frame, as
discussed above in step 214. Thus, this model can provide not only an ex-ante optimal
strategy but also the simulated ex-post strategies for different outcomes. This would
allow a trader to understand how much deviation from the proposed optimal strategy
can be tolerated without risking an unacceptable adverse affect due to opportunity
costs.
[0067]                     The present system and method may be used to trade more or less
aggressively, depending on whether the stock is moving up or down. This can be
particularly useful in volatile markets, during which rapid price movements can result in
significantly higher costs, and traders must complete their orders at the best price
possible.
                                                        24
9672265 1 (GHMatters P88570.AU.2

[0068]                      Some embodiments of the present invention may account for signals
about market conditions during the execution of an order. Signals may be constructed
for many variables including volatility, volume, and spread. Some of these real-time
variables are "smart indicators." The smart indicators are analytics that provide
indication of abnormal market conditions. The present system and method can combine
smart indicator-based analytics with a set of definitions describing how to use the
information, such that the information may be used during the optimization, as
described above in step 212.
[0069]                      Figures 3-5 are screen shots of exemplary graphical user interfaces
(GUls) of embodiments of the present invention. GUIs of the invention can be
configured to control and perform aspects of the invention as described above. The
results of the above described embodiments of the present invention may be
communicated or displayed to users in graphical formats, e.g., charts, graphs, etc.
Figures 3-5 are the property of ITG Inc., and are protected under copyright laws of the
United States.
[0070]                      As illustrated in Figures 3-5, embodiments of the present invention may
include an interface, which could be, for example, a chart or spreadsheet based
interface for submitting information regarding orders, preferences, etc., and for
displaying results to a user, consistent with the above-described embodiments. These
types of interfaces are common to systems used in financial trading, e.g., OMS and
EMS. Thus, the user interface of the present system and method may be incorporated
into the GUI of an OMS or EMS, and can be implemented with known hardware and
software components. Additionally, the user interface of the present invention may be
web enabled and accessible through a browser, such as: Microsoft's Internet Explorer,
Google's Chrome, or Mozilla's Firefox. Further, because the current system and
method contemplates integration with other financial trading systems, it is likewise
contemplated that implementations of user interface will vary and are in no way limited
to the examples illustrated in Figures 3-5.
[0071]                      Figure 3 is an example of how an embodiment of the invention could be
accessed and displayed in an EMS, such as ITG Triton@. In the current example, an
EMS screen 302 includes a graphical representation of the projected trade schedule
                                                           25
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

generated by an embodiment of the current invention 304. The graphical representation
of the projected trade schedule 304 may be interactive, allowing the user to view an
enhanced projected trade schedule 306. In one embodiment, a configuration screen
308 may be accessed either from the EMS screen 302, the enhanced projected trade
schedule 306, or some other menu. The configuration screen 308, in one embodiment,
allows users to change the assumptions and inputs used by embodiments of the current
invention. Some of these assumptions and inputs, as discussed above, include:
horizon, urgency, risk tolerance, volume, spread, and price trend.
[0072]                      Figure 4 is an example of how one embodiment of the current invention
might integrate a graphical representation of smart indicators, as described earlier in the
application. In one embodiment, the smart indicators are accessed in a browser,
through a "widget-style" graphical interface 402, or through other such display
mechanisms. In one embodiment, the widget-style graphical interface 402 is
interactive. For example, in Figure 4 a detailed smart indicator screen 404 is accessed
through the widget-style graphical interface 402. Co-owned/co-pending U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 61/103,719, titled Systems, Methods and Computer
Products for Providing Widgets for Performing Dynamic Trading Analytics in a Financial
Trading System, and filed on October 8, 2008, includes a detailed discussion of widget
style GUIs, the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.
[0073]                      Figure 5 is an example of how an embodiment of the invention could be
accessed and displayed. In one embodiment of the present invention, the information
used by and outputted from the current invention can be shown in tabular or graphical
format 502. This interface allows for the user to interact with the values and underlying
settings of the model. The interface also allows for interaction with an EMS, as
discussed above, or an execution server to facilitate the execution of trades suggested
by the invention. In this example, a user, by interacting with or clicking on the field
Shares Opt 504, can bring up or otherwise access the Dynamic TC Widget 506. Using
the Dynamic TC Widget 506 a user can change the underlying trade information and
reconfigure the trade strategy by pressing the confirm button 512. Additionally, a user
can view a graphical representation of the trade strategy 508. In some embodiments, a
                                                         26
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

user can execute the trade strategy. This can be done by pressing the Send to EMS
button 510.
[0074]                      Various embodiments of the current invention could be implemented using
a combination of both hardware and software components. For example, embodiments
of the current invention could be implemented using a Hewlett-Packard DL380 G6 with
an Intel Xeon Processor x5560, 72 gigabytes of random access memory, a graphics
processor, input/output devices (e.g., mouse, keyboard, monitor), and storage (e.g., one
or more hard disk drives) as a trade optimization server. Additionally, in the current
example, the trade optimization server could be executing Red Hat Linux as an
operating system. Additionally, in the current example, an electronic data storage
facility comprises a combination of a server, either the afore mentioned trade
optimization server or a different server, and a database software application, such as
Sybase ASE 15. Additionally, in the current example, the embodiment of the invention
includes an application server comprising a combination of a server, either the afore
mentioned trade optimization server or a different server, and an application server
software application, such as JBOSS 4.3. One of ordinary skill in the art will readily
understand that embodiments of the current invention could be implemented on other
hardware and software combinations.
[0075]                      One of ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the system can
be based on architectures such as the Internet, an intranet, a client server, a centralized
server, distributed servers, etc. The invention being thus described, it will be apparent
to those skilled in the art that the same may be varied in many ways without departing
from the spirit and scope of the invention. Any and all such modifications are intended to
be included within the scope of the invention.
[0076]                      In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the
invention, except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or
necessary implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated
features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various
embodiments of the invention.
                                                            27
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

[0077]                     It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein,
such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
                                                            28
9672265 1 (GHMatters P88570.AU.2

Claims
1.            A computerized method for adaptive transaction cost estimation, said
computerized method comprising the steps of:
              a.             receiving at a trade optimization server, from an electronic trading
interface of a trader, electronic information defining a proposed order to trade one or
more assets on an electronic exchange or marketplace, wherein the electronic
information is stored, by the trade optimization server, in an electronic data storage
facility and comprises, for each of the one or more assets in the proposed order to
trade, information identifying:
                          i.       security name, symbol, or identifier,
                        ii.        transaction side, and
                       iii.        total quantity to be traded;
              b.             receiving at the trade optimization server, electronic market data
comprising historical market data and current market data relating to the one or
more assets;
              c.             automatically determining, through the use of an optimization
algorithm executed by the trade optimization server, an optimum trading strategy
and a transaction cost estimate for implementing the proposed order, based upon
the proposed trade order, at least one pre- selected trading parameter, and the
electronic market data; and
              d.             outputting to the electronic trading interface electronic information
defining an optimum trading schedule including the quantity of the one or more assets
to be traded in one or more upcoming time period(s) according to the determined
optimum trading strategy and the transaction cost estimate so as to cause an
interactive display of said trading strategy within the electronic trading interface that
can be executed by the trader.
2.           The computerized method of claim 1,wherein the method further includes the
step of:
              e.             receiving at the trade optimization server a distribution of realized
effective spread and a distribution of realized permanent price impact of an upcoming
                                                            29
9672265 1 (GHMatters P88570.AU.2

time period, wherein the distribution of realized effective spread and the distribution of
realized permanent price impact are based on at least the potential trade imbalance of
an upcoming time period and the received electronic market data;
                            wherein the optimum trading strategy and the transaction cost estimate
for implementing the proposed order are each at least additionally based on the
distribution of realized effective spread and the distribution of realized permanent
price impact of an upcoming time period.
3.            The computerized method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said step of receiving
at a trade optimization server, electronic information reflecting a proposed order,
further comprises:
              automatically accessing an order management system database by at least
  one computer and retrieving the electronic information reflecting unplaced orders and
  creating the electronic information for the potential order based on the retrieved
  information reflecting unplaced orders.
4.            The computerized method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the at least
one pre- selected trading parameter is selected from the following list:
                      i. time horizon of a potential order;
                      i.    level of discretion of a potential order;
                      ii    expected condition of an upcoming bin; and
                      iv. specification of a function for determining an impact on trade
   imbalance by the proposed order, wherein the potential trade imbalance of an
   upcoming time period is additionally based on the function.
5.            The computerized method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein when a trader
selects to execute the trading schedule in the display interface,
              automatically communicating to a trading venue via an electronic network an
  electronic trade order to trade a quantity of a corresponding tradeable asset
  according to the displayed schedule.
                                                           30
9672265 1 (GHMatters P88570.AU.2

6.            A system for adaptive transaction cost estimation in an electronic trading
system, comprising:
              a trading optimization server configured to receive electronic information from
an electronic trading interface of a trader, the electronic information defining a
proposed order to trade one or more assets on an electronic exchange or marketplace,
to store the electronic information in an electronic data storage facility, to receive
electronic market data comprising historical market data and current market data
relating to the one or more assets, to automatically determine, through the use of an
optimization algorithm, an optimum trading strategy and a transaction cost estimate for
implementing the proposed order, based upon the proposed trade order, at least one
pre-selected trading parameter, and the electronic market data, and to output to the
electronic trading interface electronic information defining an optimum trading
schedule including the quantity of the one or more assets to be traded in one or more
upcoming time period(s) according to the determined optimum trading strategy and the
transaction cost estimate so as to cause an interactive display of said trading strategy
within the electronic trading interface that can be executed by the trader;
              wherein the electronic information comprises, for each of the one or more
  assets in the proposed order to trade, information identifying:
                             i.   security name, symbol, or identifier,
                             ii.  transaction side, and
                             iii. total quantity to be traded.
7.            The system of claim 6, wherein the trading optimization server is further
configured to receive a distribution of realized effective spread and a distribution of
realized permanent price impact of an upcoming time period, wherein the distribution
of realized effective spread and the distribution of realized permanent price impact are
based on at least the potential trade imbalance of an upcoming time period and the
received electronic market data;
              wherein the optimum trading strategy and the transaction cost estimate for
implementing the proposed order are each at least additionally based on the
distribution of realized effective spread and the distribution of realized permanent price
                                                          31
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

impact of an upcoming time period.
8.            The system of claim 6 or claim 7, further comprising an order data extraction
device configured to access automatically an order management system database by
at least one computer and retrieve the electronic information reflecting unplaced
orders and create the electronic information for the potential order based on the
retrieved information reflecting unplaced orders.
9.            The system of any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein the at least one pre
selected trading parameter is selected from the following list:
                             time horizon of a potential order;
                      li.    level of discretion of a potential order;
                      ii. expected condition of an upcoming bin; and
                       iv. specification of a function for determining an impact on trade
              imbalance by the proposed order, wherein the potential trade imbalance of
              an upcoming time period is additionally based on the function.
10.           The system of any one of claims 6 to 9, further comprising a trade order
generation device configured to communicate to a trading venue, via an electronic
network, an electronic trade order to trade a quantity of a corresponding tradeable
asset according to the displayed trading strategy when selected in the trading
interface.
11.           A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer
executable instructions for adaptive transaction cost estimation when executed by
performing the following operations:
              a.             receiving at a trade optimization server, from an electronic trading
interface of a trader, electronic information defining a proposed order to trade one or
more assets on an electronic exchange or marketplace, wherein the electronic
information is stored, by the trade optimization server, in an electronic data storage
                                                            32
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

facility and comprises, for each of the one or more assets in the proposed order to
trade, information identifying:
                           i. security name, symbol, or identifier,
                         ii. transaction side, and
                        iii. total quantity to be traded;
               b.             receiving at the trade optimization server, electronic market data
comprising historical market data and current market data relating to the one or
more assets;
              c.              automatically determining, through the use of an optimization
algorithm executed by the trade optimization server, an optimum trading strategy
and a transaction cost estimate for implementing the proposed order, based upon
the proposed trade order, at least one pre-selected trading parameter, and the
electronic market data; and
              d.              outputting to the electronic trading interface electronic information
defining an optimum trading schedule including the quantity of the one or more assets
to be traded in one or more upcoming time period(s) according to the determined
optimum trading strategy and the transaction cost estimate so as to cause an
interactive display of said trading strategy within the electronic trading interface that
can be executed by the trader.
12.           The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, further
including the executable instructions for performing the operation of:
              e.              receiving at the trade optimization server a distribution of realized
effective spread and a distribution of realized permanent price impact of an upcoming
time period, wherein the distribution of realized effective spread and the distribution of
realized permanent price impact are based on at least the potential trade imbalance of
an upcoming time period and the received electronic market data;
                              wherein the optimum trading strategy and the transaction cost estimate
              for implementing the proposed order are each at least additionally based on
              the distribution of realized effective spread and the distribution of realized
              permanent price impact of an upcoming time period.
                                                             33
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

13.           The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11 or claim 12, wherein
in the operation of receiving at a trade optimization server, electronic information
reflecting a proposed order, further comprises:
              automatically accessing an order management system database by at least
one computer and retrieving the electronic information reflecting unplaced orders and
creating the electronic information for the potential order based on the retrieved
information reflecting unplaced orders.
14.           The non-transitory computer readable medium of any one of claims 11 to 13,
wherein the at least one pre-selected trading parameter is selected from the following
list:
                      i. time horizon of a potential order;
                       ii.   level of discretion of a potential order;
                       iii. expected condition of an upcoming bin; and
                       iv. specification of a function for determining an impact on trade
imbalance by the proposed order, wherein the potential trade imbalance of an
upcoming time period is additionally based on the function.
15.           The non-transitory computer readable medium of any one of claims 11 to 14,
wherein when a trader selects to execute the trading schedule in the display interface,
              automatically communicating to a trading venue via an electronic network an
electronic trade order to trade a quantity of a corresponding tradeable asset according
to the displayed schedule.
16.           A system for adaptive transaction cost estimation, comprising:
              means for receiving at a trade optimization server from an electronic trading
interface of a trader, electronic information defining a proposed order to trade one or
more assets on an electronic exchange or marketplace, wherein the electronic
information is stored, by the trade optimization server, in an electronic data storage
facility and comprises, for each of the one or more assets in the proposed order to
                                                            34
9672265 1 (GHMattersi P88570.AU.2

trade, information identifying:
               i.            security name, symbol, or identifier,
              ii.           transaction side, and
              iii.          total quantity to be traded;
              means for receiving at the trade optimization server, electronic market data
comprising historical market data and current market data relating to the one or more
assets;
              means for determining, through the use of an optimization algorithm at the
trade optimization server, an optimum trading strategy and a transaction cost
estimate for implementing the proposed order, based upon the proposed trade order,
at least one pre- selected trading parameter, and the electronic market data;
              means for outputting the determined optimum trading strategy and the
transaction cost estimate to the trading interface so as to cause an interactive display
of the optimum trading strategy to be made within the trading interface; and
             means for executing the trading strategy when selecting in the trading
interface.
17.           The system of claim 16 , further comprising means for receiving at the trade
optimization server a distribution of realized effective spread and a distribution of
realized permanent price impact of an upcoming time period, wherein the distribution of
realized effective spread and the distribution of realized permanent price impact are
based on at least the potential trade imbalance of an upcoming time period and the
received electronic market data;
              wherein the optimum trading strategy and the transaction cost estimate for
implementing the proposed order are each at least additionally based on the
distribution of realized effective spread and the distribution of realized permanent price
impact of an upcoming time period.
18.           The system of claim 16 or claim 17, wherein means for receiving at a trade
optimization server, electronic information reflecting a proposed order, further
comprises:
                                                         35
9672265 1 (GHMatters P88570 AU 2

              means for automatically accessing an order management system database by
  at least one computer and retrieving the electronic information reflecting unplaced
  orders and creating the electronic information for the potential order based on the
  retrieved information reflecting unplaced orders.
  19.         The system of any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein the at least one pre
  selected trading parameter is selected from the following list:
                       i. time horizon of a potential order;
                      ii. level of discretion of a potential order;
                      iii. expected condition of an upcoming bin; and
                      iv. specification of a function for determining an impact and trade
              imbalance by the proposed order, wherein the potential trade imbalance of an
              upcoming time period is additionally based on the function.
  20.         The system of any one of claims 16 to 19, further comprising means for
  communicating to a trading venue via an electronic network an electronic trade order
  to trade a quantity of a corresponding tradeable asset equal to the indication of a
  quantity output, in the upcoming time period.
                                                          36
9672265 1 (GHMatters P88570.AU.2

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
