                                          Strictly Confidential
                                       ECO BOTTLE
ABSTRACT
A packaging system for bottled water or other non-carbonated drinks made up of a spouted pouch
with a flip-top drinking straw closure and a reusable holder.
The spouted pouch is made of a laminated plastic construction with a plastic threaded neck fitting
bonded to the laminate. A closure with a flip-top drinking straw mechanism is used to provide the
functionality for drinking. The holder is made of recycled material and provides the external
structure of a ridged bottle making the pouch easy to use in a bottled water / drink application.
A full pouch is easily slipped into the holder and locked into position with the neck clipping into the
holder. When consumed, the empty pouch is easily removed from the holder and replaced by a full
pouch.
At a time where the world has reached a crisis point with the pollution of plastic bottles, this
invention could provide significant reductions in plastic consumption in the bottle water / drinks
industry and reduce plastic bottle pollution in landfills and oceans.
1| P a g e

                   Strictly Confidential
              ECO BOTTLE DRAWINGS
5
                                         2
            1                            2
  1| P ag e

                               Strictly Confidential
                                   Australia
                             Patent Act 1990
                        INNOVATION PATENT
                            ECO BOTTLE
                                                          Reference: ECO BOTTLE
                                                            Inventor: John Gerrie
                                                       Address: 18 Hastings Road
                                                           Warrawee, NSW, 2074
                                                                        AUSTRALIA
                                                               Date: 5th April 2018
  The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the
                  best method of performing it known to me:
11 Page

                                               Strictly Confidential
                                            ECO BOTTLE
    BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
    FIELD
    This invention is in the field of packaging for liquids, specifically drinking water and other non
    carbonated drinks. More particularly, this invention provides a method to replace a ridged plastic
    container with a flexible pouch, giving the flexible pouch the structural integrity to enable it to stand
    and perform like a ridged container.
  5
    BACKGROUND
    10 million tonnes of plastic waste end up in the world's oceans each year. This corresponds to the
 .0 weights of 700 billion plastic bottles. Americans alone used about 50 billion plastic water bottles last
    year. However, the U.S.'s recycling rate for plastic is only 23 percent, which means 38 billion water
    bottles - more than $1 billion worth of plastic - end up in landfill or even worse in our oceans.
    Currently, it is estimated that there is 100 million tons of plastic in oceans around the world. Over
    100 million marine animals are killed each year due to plastic debris in the ocean. The UN estimates
15  by 2050 there will be more plastic in the ocean than fish.
    Not only are plastic bottle threatening our environment, but every plastic bottle consumes about
    25% of its volume in non-renewable resources to produce, fill and distribute. A typical 500ml bottle
    you will find on any supermarket shelf consumes 1.7 megajoules of energy before it is even filled.
20  And, while recycling is critically important, it is simply shutting the gate after the horse has bolted,
    21 Page

                                              Strictly Confidential
   requiring at least the same amount of energy again to transport, process and reuse the material to
   create another product, usually of a lower value.
   The world must reduce our dependence on traditional rigid bottles. It takes 30 to 40 gram of non
 5 renewable petroleum-based plastic material to form a rigid 500ml bottle with a wall thickness of
   0.75mm. Add the cost of transporting of empty bottles from bottle maker to manufacturing plant
   and you will soon see why this form of packaging is so inefficient.
   Laminated pouches have been available as an alternative to ridged bottles and have gained
 0 significant success on the baby food market but have not be successful in other applications. The
   biggest problem with pouches are that as a result of their thin wall they do not have enough
   structural rigidity in a wide variety of applications, and consumer have shunned a form of packaging
   that is significantly more environmentally responsible simply because of convenience.
 5 Pouches can safely contain the same liquids with a wall thickness of 92 microns (0.75mm v
   0.092mm) 8X less plastic. But even more important is the saving in transporting empty bottles.
   This invention provides structure rigidity around a pouch to provide consumer convenience, without
   adding cost because it is reusable, and can be made from recycled material. The user simply inserts
40 the pouch pack into the holder. The neck of the pouch is locked into position, and the pouch can be
   used like any other rigid bottle.
   DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
45 The invention may be better understood with reference to the illustrations of embodiments of the
   invention which:
   31 Page

                                             Strictly Confidential
                                          ECO BOTTLE
    CLAIMS
       1. The system provides the combination of a ridged holder and laminated pouch with a plastic
  5         threated spout bonded to the laminate.
       2.   The holder in claim 1, is shaped like a ridged bottle, but can be reused many times over
            simply by inserting a new pouch filled with liquid.
 .0    3.   The holder, in claim 1, is made of recycled material.
       4.   The laminated pouch with the plastic threated spout in claim 1, is fitted with a closure which
            has a flip-top straw feature.
 .5    5.   The plastic treated spout in claim 1, has a collar that enables the spout to clip into the holder
            neck.
       6.   The holder in claim 1, is open at the bottom, and both front and rear sides have openings.
            The rear opening extends up the the neck, so that the user can easily manoeuvre the pouch
20          and closure inside the holder so as to clip the spout neck into the holder neck
    1| P a g e

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              - There are 3 pages of Drawings only

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                       Strictly Confidential
               FIG 1
<removed-date>
          50
               An oblique elevation of the holder 1 and spouted pouch 2 with a flip-top drinking straw closure 3
         55
<removed-apn>
         60
         65
         70
               FIG 2
               An oblique elevation of the spouted pouch 2 with flip-top closer 3 being inserted into the holder 1.
         75
         80
         85
         90
         95
      100
               4|Page

                                                      Strictly Confidential
<removed-date>
              FIG 3
              A close-up rear view of the pouch neck and the holder 1 showing how location 4 in the neck fits into
      105     the location 5 of the pouch to lock the pouch 2 and closure 3 into position in the holder 1
      110
<removed-apn>
      115     FIG 4
              An oblique rear elevation showing the opening 6 that allows the user to easily guide the pouch 2
              with closure 3 into the holder 1 and insert the neck into the holder and clip into position.
      120
      125
              FIG 5
      130
              Shows an oblique frontal elevation of the pouch 2 and closure 3 clipped into the holder 1 ready for
              use with the drinking straw 7 in the open position.
      135
              5|Page

