        SIGNAL ENHANCEMENT USING WIRELESS STREAMING
ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a method of enhancing an audio signal in a
receiving device. The invention further relates to an audio enhancement
device and an audio enhancement system. The present invention may
provide a scheme for improving signal quality of an audio signal received
by a listening device. The problem is solved in that the method comprises
acoustically propagating a target signal from an acoustic source along an
acoustic propagation path, providing a propagated acoustic signal at the
receiving device; converting the received propagated acoustic signal to a
propagated electric signal, the received propagated acoustic signal
comprising the target signal, noise and possible other sounds from the
environment as modified by the propagation path from the acoustic source
to the receiving device; wirelessly transmitting a signal comprising the
target audio signal to the receiving device; receiving the wirelessly
transmitted signal in the receiving device; retrieving a streamed target
audio signal from the wirelessly received signal comprising the target
audio signal; and estimating the target signal from the propagated electric
signal and the streamed target audio signal using an adaptive system. An
advantage of the invention is that a target signal is enhanced. The
invention may e.g. be used in listening devices, e.g. hearing aids,
receiving audio sound from a signal source via an acoustic path.
(Fig. 2g should be published)

H-ZUUv-Ul b VVU 1 -May-2UU9
                                                     4/12
                                         WIN
                                          AINc
                                                  0    ESTIMATOR
                                             AINn
                                                           CTRL
                              M1  Q                                       o OUT
                                                      ACTUATOR
                                                       FIG. 2g
                                 'fWIN          F
                                                       WINP
                                                                AS   -     OUT
                                                       AIN1
                                     AIN
                            mC          N       FB
                                                       AINP              AE
                                                    FIG. 2h
                                  YWININFB
                                                       WINP        O   '
                                                                AS       OUT
                                                        _AIL       OUTP
                                     AIN
                            m     --      +     F     IB
                                                       G
                                                       AINP               AE
                                                    FIG. 2i

                                         1
   TITLE
           "SIGNAL ENHANCEMENT USING WIRELESS STREAMING"
 5
   The headings and subheadings in this specification are provided for
   convenience to assist the reader, and they are not to be interpreted so as
   to narrow or limit the scope of the disclosure in the description, claims,
   abstract or drawings.
10
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   The present invention relates to a method of, a device (and its use) and a
15 system for enhancing the signal quality of an audio signal, e.g. in
   connection with the propagation of an audio signal to a listening device,
   e.g. a hearing aid. The invention further relates to a data processing
   system and to a computer readable medium.
20 The invention may e.g. be useful in applications such as listening devices,
   e.g. hearing aids, receiving audio sound from a signal source via an
   acoustic path.
25 BACKGROUND ART
   Any discussion of background art, any reference to a document and any
   reference to information that is known, which is contained in this
   specification,  is provided    only for the     purpose   of facilitating an
30 understanding of the background art to the present invention, and is not an
   acknowledgement or admission that any of that material forms part of the
   common general knowledge in Australia or any other country as at the
   priority date of the application in relation to which this specification has
   been filed.
35

                                            2
    In many wireless audio streaming scenarios the acoustical audio signal is
   present in parallel to a corresponding wireless electromagnetic signal, e.g.
   audio streaming from a TV, audio streaming in a class room, etc. The
   misalignment in time between the streamed audio signal and the acoustic
 5 audio signal is in many situations a problem. If the misalignment is more
   than 10 ms, sound quality begins to drop. If the misalignment is increased
   even more, audio-visual non-synchronicity begins to appear. If the delay is
   more than 50 ms, audio-visual non-synchronicity like e.g. lip-reading
   makes the situation quite unpleasant and decreases speech intelligibility.
10
    It is in light of such background art, for example, that the present invention
   has arisen.
15 SUMMARY OF INVENTION
   The present invention deals in general with signal enhancement in
   listening systems. Embodiments of the invention relate to the handling of
   delay       differences  between  acoustically   propagated    and   wirelessly
20 transmitted audio signals. Embodiments of the invention deal with the
   treatment of audio signals, which are to accompany video-images or real
   ('live') images of persons or scenes to be simultaneously perceived by a
   viewer. The idea is - in addition to the acoustically propagated audio
   signal - to wirelessly transmit (stream) the audio signal from an audio
25 source, e.g. a TV-set or a wired or wireless microphone, to an audio
   receiver, e.g. a hearing aid.
    In embodiments of the invention, the streamed audio signal is mainly used
   for building a signal model of the streamed signal source. This model is
30 used to increase the signal-to-noise ratio of the acoustically propagated
   and received audio signal because the model can be used to determine
   which part of the input (signal+noise) is dominated by the signal, and
   which part is dominated by the noise.
35  In noise reduction algorithms, it is known to subtract an estimate of the
   noise from the mixed signal comprising signal and noise. In embodiments

                                           3
   of the present invention, the 'opposite' is done in that the 'clean' version of
   the signal (the streamed audio signal) is used to extract characteristics of
   the target signal part of the received, acoustically propagated signal.
   Characteristics of the target signal include its frequency spectrum,
 5 periodicity, modulation at different frequencies f (e.g. modulation index,
   MI(f), top and bottom trackers, TT(f), BT(f), respectively) onset/offset
   characteristics, input level, etc. The extracted characteristics (the model)
   of the target signal can e.g. be used to adapt possible noise reduction and
   compression algorithms to provide the same characteristics in the
10 processed version of the received acoustically propagated signal. Such
   processing can e.g. be performed in a signal processing unit of a listening
   device.
   The present scheme can further be used e.g. to filter out noise from
15 distinct sources, e.g. a ventilator, a household appliance or the like using a
   directional microphone system or, alternatively, if the noise has its origin
   from in front of the person wearing the hearing aid, to reduce it using a
   noise reduction algorithm.
20 Similarly, the concept can be used in connection with 'own voice detection'
   by using a specific 'own voice detector' to extract characteristics of the
   'own voice' and wirelessly transmit those characteristics (or alternatively
   the full audio signal comprising 'own voice') to a hearing aid of another
   listening person, which can then be specifically 'tuned' to the reception of
25 that particular voice.
   Alternatively, the concept can be used to add spatial information about the
   present location of a user (e.g. a particular room) to a wirelessly streamed
   audio signal with the purpose of adding directional information, etc., to the
30 otherwise 'clean' streamed signal.
   Embodiments      of the present invention may provide a scheme for
   improving signal quality of an audio signal received by a listening device.
35
   A method of enhancing an audio signal:

                                          4
    In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention there is provided
   a method of enhancing an audio signal in a receiving device. The method
   comprises,
 5 * Acoustically propagating a target signal from an acoustic source along
        an acoustic propagation path, providing a propagated acoustic signal at
        the receiving device;
   *    Converting the received propagated acoustic signal to a propagated
        electric signal, the received propagated acoustic signal comprising the
10      target signal, noise and possible other sounds from the environment as
        modified by the propagation path from the acoustic source to the
        receiving device;
   *    Wirelessly transmitting a signal comprising the target audio signal to
        the receiving device;
15 e    Receiving the wirelessly transmitted signal in the receiving device;
   *    Retrieving a streamed target audio signal from the wirelessly received
        signal comprising the target audio signal; and
   *    Estimating the target signal from the propagated electric signal and the
        streamed target audio signal using an adaptive system, wherein the
20      adaptive system comprises an adaptive algorithm;
   *    Estimating the target signal from the propagated electric signal using
        the streamed target audio signal or a signal derived there from as an
        input to said adaptive algorithm to improve the estimate of the target
        signal.
25
   An advantage of the invention described herein is that a target signal is
   enhanced.
   Another advantage of embodiments of the invention is that the acoustically
30 propagated signal is enhanced without introducing a further delay in its
   propagation path.
   Another advantage of embodiments of the invention is that the streamed
   signal can be used to precisely estimate the impulse response of the path
35 from the loud speaker generating the (acoustic version of the) audio signal
   to the microphone of the listening device, e.g. a hearing aid (i.e.

                                            5
   dependent of the room in which the user is located). This estimate can
   then be more precisely de-convolved in the listening device (than if the
   source signal is unknown).
 5 In the present context, the term 'streaming', refers to the transmission and
   reception of a (typically digital, e.g. encoded) signal, typically representing
   audio or video data, which is continuously generated (or transmitted from
   a stored file) and presented to a user or used in a medium as it is
   received. Typically, the streamed signal is presented to a user as it is
10 received, without being       permanently stored      (apart from    necessary
   buffering).
   In the present context, the term an adaptive system, refers to a system
   that is able to respond to changes in its inputs. An adaptive system
15 typically comprises a feedback loop. An example of an adaptive system is
   an adaptive filter comprising a variable filter part and an update algorithm
   part, the variable filter part providing        a transfer function     that is
   automatically adjusted to changing inputs based on an optimizing
   algorithm of the update algorithm part.
20
   In an embodiment, the receiving device is adapted to be able to perform
   signal processing in separate frequency ranges or bands.
   In an embodiment, the input side of the forward path of the receiving
25 device comprises an AD-conversion unit for sampling an analogue electric
   input signal with a sampling frequency fs and providing as an output a
   digitized electric input signal comprising digital time samples sn of the input
   signal (amplitude) at consecutive points in time tn=n*(1/fs), where n is an
   integer. The duration in time of a sample is thus given by Ts=1/fs. In
30 general, the sampling frequency is adapted to the application (available
   bandwidth,    power consumption, frequency content of input signal,
   necessary accuracy, etc.). In an embodiment, the sampling frequency fs is
   in the range from 8 kHz to 40 kHz, e.g. around 16 kHz.
35 In an embodiment, the receiving device comprises a TF-conversion unit for
   providing a time-frequency representation of a signal. In an embodiment,

                                            6
   the time-frequency       representation    comprises an    array or map       of
   corresponding complex or real values of the signal in question in a
   particular time and frequency range. In an embodiment, the TF conversion
   unit comprises a filter bank for filtering a (time varying) input signal and
 5 providing a number of (time varying) output signals each comprising a
   distinct frequency range of the input signal. In an embodiment, the TF
   conversion unit comprises a Fourier transformation unit for converting a
   time variant input signal to a (time variant) signal in the frequency domain.
    In an embodiment, the frequency range considered by the receiving device
10 from a minimum frequency       fmin to a maximum frequency     fmax comprises a
   part of the typical human audible frequency range from 20 Hz to 20 kHz,
   e.g. from 20 Hz to 12 kHz. In an embodiment, the frequency range fmin-fmax
   considered by the receiving device is split into a number P of frequency
   bands, where P is e.g. larger than 5, such as larger than 10, such as
15 larger than 50, such as larger than 100, at least some of which are
   processed individually.
    In a particular embodiment, the method comprises estimating the delay
   difference between the propagated electric signal and the streamed target
20 audio signal or signals originating there from. Which one of the signals that
   arrives first in the receiving device in (electrical form) will depend on the
   physical length of the acoustic propagation path and the latency of the
   wireless link, e.g. on delays in transceivers of the wireless transmission
   path    (including    in   possible     coding-decoding    units,    modulation
25 demodulation units, etc.) for transmitting and receiving the electromagnetic
   signal, and on delays in the input transducer, possible front-end amplifiers
   and/or other processing of the acoustically propagated signal during
   reception, etc. In some applications, the (acoustically) propagated electric
   signal will have the lowest delay. This may e.g. the case, if the wireless
30 link is based on inductive coupling between transmitter and receiver. In
   other cases the (electromagnetically) streamed target audio signal will
   have the lowest delay. This may e.g. be the case, if the wireless link is
   based on radiated fields.
35  In a particular embodiment, the method comprises using the resulting
   delay difference in the estimation of the target signal.

                                          7
    In an aspect of the invention, the idea is to use the streamed audio signal
   ONLY for building a signal model of the streamed signal source. This
   model is used in a signal enhancement system like e.g. the "Spectral
 5 Subtraction" algorithm (see e.g. [Boll, 1979]). This type of algorithm uses
   an estimate of the noise and by comparing this estimate with the input
   (signal+noise) the optimal gain is calculated. According to the present
   invention, a perfect estimate of the signal is available (the streamed target
   audio signal) and by comparing this to the input (signal+noise) we can
10 calculate an optimal gain (we can call this a reversed Spectral Subtraction
   or a Spectral Enhancement algorithm). Alternatively, a Wiener filter could
   be used (cf. e.g. [Widrow et al., 1975]).
   Some algorithms use the signal estimate directly, e.g. the formant tracking
15 algorithms like HMM (Hidden Markov Model) (see e.g. [Rabiner, 1989]) or
   Linear Prediction methods (see e.g. [Makhoul, 1975]). In this case, the
   streamed signal is used to extract signal model information like formants,
   spectral shape, etc., and use this in the enhancement algorithm.
20 According to an aspect of the present invention, the streamed signal is
   NOT used in the direct signal path (the streamed signal is not presented to
   a user, cf. e.g. embodiments of FIG. 2b, 2c, 2g, 3a, 3b, 5. 7a, 8, 12a). It is
   mainly used to extract information about the acoustically propagated target
   signal (such information       (the model) being     passed to the     Signal
25 Enhancement algorithm for estimating (enhancing) the target signal). In
   this way we do not have any problems with the link delay because the
   model can be updated quite slowly and we can expect a significant
   increase in the signal-to-noise ratio.
30  In embodiments of this aspect of the invention, the method comprises
   estimating the target signal from the propagated electric signal using the
   streamed target audio signal or a signal derived there from as an input to
   the adaptive algorithm to improve the estimate of the target signal. Here,
   the (possibly delayed) propagated electric signal is e.g. fed to the variable
35 filter part of an adaptive filter whereas the (possibly delayed) streamed
   target audio signal is used in the algorithm part of the adaptive filter to

                                            8
   update filter coefficients of the variable filter part. This has the advantage
   of increasing the signal to noise ratio of the propagated electric signal.
    In another aspect of the present invention, the acoustically propagated
 5 signal is used to add spatial information about the present location of a
   user (e.g. a particular room) to a wirelessly streamed audio signal with the
   purpose of adding directional information, etc., to the otherwise 'clean'
   streamed signal (the resulting 'enhanced' streamed signal being presented
   to a user, cf. e.g. embodiments of FIG. 2d, 2e, 6, 7b).
10
    In embodiments of this aspect of the invention, the method comprises
   estimating the target signal from the streamed target audio signal using
   the propagated electric signal or a signal derived there from as an input to
   the adaptive algorithm to improve the estimate of the target signal. This
15 can e.g. be implemented by an adaptive filter by feeding the (possibly
   delayed) streamed target audio signal to the variable filter part of an
   adaptive filter whereas the (possibly delayed), propagated electric signal is
   used in the algorithm part of the adaptive filter to update filter coefficients
   of the variable filter part.
20
    In a particular embodiment, the method comprises
   *    delaying the relevant one of the signals, the estimate of the target
        signal, the propagated electric signal and the streamed target audio
        signal, or signals originating there from with the estimated delay
25      difference; and
   *    using the resulting signal in the estimation of the target signal.
    In   a    particular  embodiment,      the   method     comprises      extracting
   characteristics of the target signal from the streamed target audio signal.
30  In an     embodiment,      the  method     additionally  comprises     extracting
   characteristics of the target signal from the propagated electric signal. In
   an embodiment, the characteristics of the target signal include one or
   more of the following: the frequency spectrum, modulation at different
   frequencies (e.g. modulation index, e.g. top and bottom trackers of a
35 modulation index vs. frequency), onset/offset characteristics, input level,
   etc. In an embodiment, the method comprises comparing corresponding

                                        9
   characteristics (e.g. modulation index or input level) of extracted from the
   streamed     target  audio signal and    the propagated      electric signal,
   respectively.
 5  In a particular embodiment, the method comprises using the extracted
   characteristics of the streamed target audio signal as inputs to processing
   algorithms for improving the estimated target signal. In an embodiment,
   the method comprises using a comparison of corresponding
   characteristics (e.g. modulation index or input level) extracted from the
10 streamed     target  audio signal and    the propagated electric signal,
   respectively as inputs to processing algorithms for improving the estimated
   target signal. In an embodiment, algorithms comprise one or more
   algorithms for processing of gain, directionality, noise reduction or
   compression, etc., to appropriately adapt (enhance) characteristics of the
15 target signal estimate.
    In an embodiment, the estimated target signal is further improved in
   further processing algorithms, e.g. by adapting the estimated target signal
   according to a user's needs.
20
    In a particular embodiment, the extracted characteristics of the streamed
   target audio signal or a comparison between characteristics of the
   streamed target audio signal and the propagated electric signal are used
   to compensate for non-linearities in loudspeakers in a room, thereby an
25 improved sound quality can be provided, while maintaining other sounds
   from the environment. This has the advantage that the resulting estimated
   version of the target sound signal is NOT 'destroyed' by bad components
   in loudspeaker(s) providing the sound source target signal.
30  In a particular embodiment, the extracted characteristics of the streamed
   target audio signal or a comparison between characteristics of the
   streamed target audio signal and the propagated electric signal are used
   to remove noise from distinct audio sources in the environment of the
   receiving device, e.g. from a household appliance, e.g. a dish washing
35 machine, a ventilator, etc.

                                           10
    In   a   particular  embodiment,      the  method    comprises     extracting
   characteristics of the acoustic propagation path from the propagated
   acoustic signal.
 5  In a particular embodiment, the characteristics of the acoustic propagation
   path include one or more of the following: interaural difference cues,
   distance information, intensity, direct to reverberant energy ratio, room
   impression.
10  In a particular embodiment, the extracted characteristics of the acoustic
   propagation path are used to add spatial information to the target signal
   estimate, e.g. characteristics of the room, reflections, background sounds,
   directional cues, reverberation, etc.
15  In a particular embodiment, the propagated acoustic signal is attenuated,
   e.g. cancelled, in or by the receiving device before being presented to a
   user, e.g. in hearing aids or headphones to be able to fully control the
   sound presented to a user.
20  In an embodiment, the method is used in a listening device, e.g. a
   protective device, a head phone or a headset, a hearing aid or a pair of
   hearing aids of a binaural fitting. An advantage of embodiments of the
   invention is that the delay problem is solved, and further that the user gets
   the audio signal through their own ears (via the hearing aid, i.e.) including
25 additional background sounds, so that an experience of being cut-off from
   the environment is avoided. A further advantage of embodiments of the
   invention is that the target signal is enhanced compared to the acoustically
   of wirelessly propagated signals comprising the target signal.
30 Audio enhancement device:
    In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention there is
   provided an audio enhancement device for enhancing an audio signal is
   furthermore provided by the present invention. The audio enhancement
35 device comprises

                                           11
   *     at least one input transducer for converting a propagated acoustic
         signal comprising a target signal propagated from an acoustic source
         along an acoustic propagation path to the audio enhancement device
         to a propagated electric signal;
 5 e     a wireless receiver for receiving a target audio signal via a wireless link
         and providing a streamed target audio signal; and
   *     a first adaptive system for estimating said target signal based on said
         propagated electric input signal and said streamed target audio signal,
         the first adaptive system comprising an adaptive algorithm;
10 wherein the adaptive system is configured to estimate the target signal
   from the propagated electric signal using the streamed target audio signal
   or a signal derived there from as an input to the adaptive algorithm.
    It is intended that the process features of the method described above, in
15 the detailed description of 'mode(s) for carrying out the invention' and in
   the claims can be combined with the (audio enhancement) device, when
   appropriately substituted by a corresponding structural feature and vice
   versa. Embodiments of the device have the same advantages as the
   corresponding method.
20
    In a particular embodiment, the audio enhancement device comprises a
   first estimator unit for estimating the delay difference between the
   propagated electric signal and the streamed target audio signal or signals
   originating there from. In a particular embodiment, the audio enhancement
25 device is adapted for using the resulting delay difference in the estimation
   of the target signal.
    In a particular embodiment, the first adaptive system is adapted to base its
   estimate of the target signal on the propagated electric input signal and
30 said estimated delay difference.
    In a particular embodiment, the first adaptive system is adapted to base its
   estimate of the target signal on the streamed target audio signal and said
   estimated delay difference.
35

                                           12
    In a particular embodiment, the audio enhancement device comprises a
   second estimator unit for estimating characteristics of the target signal
   from     the  streamed    target   audio   signal.    In an    embodiment,    the
   characteristics of the target signal include one or more of the following: the
 5 frequency spectrum, modulation at different frequencies (e.g. modulation
   index, e.g. top and bottom trackers of a modulation index vs. frequency),
   onset/offset characteristics, etc. In a particular embodiment, the audio
   enhancement        device   is   adapted    to   provide    that   the  extracted
   characteristics of the streamed target audio signal are used to as inputs to
10 processing algorithms for improving the target signal. In an embodiment,
   the estimated target signal is thereby improved (e.g. according to a user's
   needs), e.g. by adapting algorithms for gain, directionality, noise reduction
   or compression, etc., to provide the same characteristics in the processed
   version of the target signal estimate as in the streamed target audio signal.
15
    In a particular embodiment, the audio enhancement device comprises a
   third estimator      unit for estimating      characteristics of the     acoustic
   propagation path from the propagated acoustic signal. In a particular
   embodiment, the characteristics of the acoustic propagation path include
20 one or more of the following: interaural             difference cues, distance
   information, intensity, direct to reverberant energy ratio, room impression.
    In a particular embodiment, the audio enhancement device is adapted to
   provide that the extracted characteristics of the acoustic propagation path
   are used to add spatial information to the target signal estimate. In a
25 particular     embodiment,     the    spatial    information     comprises    e.g.
   characteristics of the room, reflections, background sounds, directional
   cues, reverberation, etc.
    In a particular embodiment, said first adaptive system comprises an
30 adaptive filter for providing said estimate of the target signal, the adaptive
   filter comprising an algorithm part and a variable filter part where the
   algorithm part is adapted to update a filter characteristic of the variable
   filter part.
35  In a particular embodiment, the first estimator unit comprises an adaptive
   filter for providing said estimate of the delay difference.

                                         13
   In a particular embodiment, the audio enhancement device comprises a
   signal processing unit for further processing said estimate of the target
   signal, e.g. for running processing algorithms for improving the target
 5 signal and/or for adding spatial information to the estimate of the target
   signal. The signal processing unit may be adapted to further process the
   estimate of the target signal according to a user's needs.
   In a particular embodiment, the audio enhancement device comprises an
10 output transducer for presenting the estimate of the target signal or an
   output from said signal processing unit comprising a further processing of
   said estimate of the target signal to a user. In an embodiment, the audio
   enhancement device comprises an output transducer for presenting the
   estimate of the target signal or an output from said signal processing unit
15 comprising a further processing of said estimate of the target signal as a
   stimulus adapted to be perceived by a user as an output sound (e.g. an
   output transducer (such as a number of electrodes) of a cochlear implant
   or of a bone conducting hearing device.
20 In an embodiment, the audio enhancement device form part of a listening
   device, e.g. a hearing instrument, a head set, a head phone, or an ear
   protection device, or a combination thereof.
25 Audio enhancement system:
   In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention there is provided
   an audio enhancement system is moreover provided by the present
   invention. The audio enhancement system comprises an audio source for
30 generating an acoustic target signal and a transmitting device for
   generating a wireless signal comprising a representation of said target
   signal in the form of a target audio signal and a receiving device
   comprising an audio enhancement device as described above, in the
   detailed description of 'mode(s) for carrying out the invention' and in the
35 claims.

                                        14
   In a particular embodiment, the transmitting device is embodied in an
   entertainment device comprising a microphone and/or produce images
   and accompanying sound signals. The transmitting device, can e.g. be an
   AN device (AN=AudioNisual), e.g. a TV-set, a PC, a wired or wireless
 5 microphone, a karaoke system, etc. In an embodiment, the entertainment
   device comprises a loudspeaker for propagating a target sound, a wireless
   transmitter   for  electromagnetically  propagating   the  sound    and   a
   microphone for picking up a target sound (or a part thereof) from a
   speaker or singer or another intended sound from the environment. In an
10 embodiment, such device comprising a microphone comprises a PC
   and/or a karaoke-device.
   In a particular embodiment, the receiving device is embodied in a listening
   device, e.g. a body-worn listening device, e.g. comprising a headphone, a
15 head set, an ear protection device and/or a hearing instrument.
   In an embodiment, the audio source comprises a loudspeaker.
   In an embodiment, the audio source is embodied in an entertainment
20 device comprising images and accompanying sound signals (such as an
   AN device, e.g. a TV-set or a PC).
   In an embodiment, the audio source and said transmitting device are
   integrated in one physical device comprising a common housing.
25
   In an embodiment, the audio source is a voice, e.g. a voice of a human
   being.
   In an embodiment, the transmitting device comprises a microphone or a
30 listening device adapted for being worn by a user and comprising an 'own
   voice detector' for detecting and extracting the users own voice or
   characteristics thereof, the audio source being the user's own voice, and
   the transmitting device being adapted to wirelessly transmit an audio
   signal comprising the user's own voice to said receiving device. This has
35 the advantage that the receiving audio enhancement device, e.g. a
   hearing aid, of another listening person, which can be specifically 'tuned'

                                         15
   to the reception of the voice of the wearer of the transmitting listening
   device, e.g. a microphone or a hearing aid.
   In an embodiment, the transmitting device is an audio enhancement
 5 device as described above, in the detailed description of 'mode(s) for
   carrying out the invention' and in the claims.
   Use:
10 Use of an audio enhancement device or of an audio enhancement system
   as described above, in the detailed description of 'mode(s) for carrying out
   the invention' and in the claims is moreover provided by the present
   invention. In an embodiment, use of an audio enhancement device in a
   device selected from the group of listening devices comprising a headset,
15 an active earplug, a headphone, a hearing instrument and combinations
   thereof is provided. In an embodiment, use of an audio enhancement
   system in a public address system or a karaoke system is provided.
   A tangible computer-readable medium:
20
   In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present invention there is
   provided a tangible computer-readable medium storing a computer
   program comprising program code means for causing a data processing
   system to perform at least some of the steps of the method described
25 above, in the detailed description of 'mode(s) for carrying out the invention'
   and in the claims, when said computer program is executed on the data
   processing system is furthermore provided by the present invention. In
   addition to being stored on a tangible medium such as diskette-, CD-ROM
   , DVD-, or hard disk-media, or any other machine readable medium, the
30 computer program can be transmitted via a transmission medium such as
   a wired or wireless link or a network, e.g. the Internet, and loaded into a
   data processing system for being executed at a location different from that
   of the tangible medium.
35 A data processing system:

                                         16
    In accordance with fifth aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   data processing system comprising a processor and program code means
   for causing the processor to perform at least some of the steps of the
   method described above, in the detailed description of 'mode(s) for
 5 carrying out the invention' and in the claims is furthermore provided by the
   present invention.
   As used herein, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" are intended to
10 include the plural forms as well (i.e. to have the meaning "at least one"),
   unless expressly stated otherwise. It will be further understood that the
   terms "includes", "comprises", "included", "comprised", "including" and/or
   "comprising" when used in this specification, specify the presence of
   stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components,
15 but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other
   features,   integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and/or
   groups thereof. It will be understood that when an element is referred to as
   being "connected" or "coupled" to another element, it can be directly
   connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements maybe
20 present, unless expressly stated otherwise. Furthermore, "connected" or
   "coupled" as used herein may include wirelessly connected or coupled. As
   used herein, the term "and/or" includes any and all combinations of one or
   more of the associated listed items. The steps of any method disclosed
   herein do not have to be performed in the exact order disclosed, unless
25 expressly stated otherwise.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
30 The present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
   FIG. 1 shows embodiments of an audio enhancement system according to
   the invention comprising an audio source, a transmitter and one or more
35 listening devices comprising an audio enhancement device according to
   the invention;

                                        17
   FIG. 2 shows block diagrams of various audio enhancement devices
   according to embodiments of the invention;
 5 FIG.   3 shows block diagrams        of two embodiments of an audio
   enhancement device according to the invention, FIG. 3a showing a single
   microphone device and FIG. 3b showing a multi-microphone device;
   FIG. 4 shows a listening device comprising an audio enhancement device
10 according to an embodiment of the invention;
   FIG. 5 shows an example of an audio enhancement system according to
   an embodiment of the invention, the system comprising an audio
   enhancement device wherein the target signal is estimated based on the
15 acoustically propagated signal based on LMS deconvolution;
   FIG. 6 shows an audio enhancement system according to an embodiment
   of the invention, the system comprising an audio enhancement device
   wherein the target signal is estimated based on the electromagnetically
20 propagated signal;
   FIG. 7 shows block diagrams of two embodiments of a listening device
   according to the invention;
25 FIG. 8 shows an audio enhancement system adapted for enhancement of
   a particular voice according to an embodiment of the invention;
   FIG. 9 shows a flow diagram of a method according to an embodiment of
   the present invention;
30
   FIG. 10 shows an example of characteristics of the streamed target audio
   signal, here modulation index MI vs. time t (FIG. 10a) and resulting inputs
   to a processing algorithm providing gain G [dB] vs. modulation index MI;
35 FIG. 11 shows an example of a comparison of characteristics of the
   streamed target audio signal with those of the acoustically propagated

                                           18
   signal, here top and bottom trackers of modulation index MI vs. time t
   (FIG. 11a) and resulting inputs to processing algorithms, here providing
   incremental gain AG [dB] vs. frequency f (FIG. 11 b) and incremental noise
   reduction ANR [dB] vs. frequency f (FIG. 11c); and
 5
   FIG. 12 shows an audio enhancement device according to an embodiment
   of the invention (FIG. 12A) and corresponding characteristics of the target
   signal, here level differences AG [dB] vs. frequency f (FIG. 12b).
10
   The figures are schematic and simplified for clarity, and they just show
   details which are essential to the understanding of the invention, while
   other details are left out. Throughout, the same reference numerals or
   names are used for identical or corresponding parts.
15
   Further scope of applicability of the present invention will become
   apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter. However, it
   should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples,
   while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention, are given by way
20 of illustration only, since various changes and modifications within the
   spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in
   the art from this detailed description.
25 DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
   FIG. 1 shows embodiments of an audio enhancement system according to
   the invention comprising an audio source, a transmitter and one or more
   listening devices comprising an audio enhancement device according to
30 the invention.
   The audio enhancement system of FIG. la comprises a TV-set and a pair
   of listening devices, here a pair of hearing instruments of a binaural fitting.
   The TV-set 1 is provided with a loudspeaker for acoustically emitting a
35 sound signal (APTS) 6 (a target signal, which a user wishes to receive)
   corresponding to the TV-images AND with a transmitter for transmitting

                                           19
   the same sound (termed target audio signal) via a wireless link 4 in the
   form of signal WLS. In addition to the target signal 6, a noise signal (N) 8
   (here produced by a fan 7, but representing all background noise
   (including other sound sources than the target sound) in the environment
 5 of the user) is mixed with the acoustically propagated target signal. Both
   signals are received by the pair of hearing instruments (HI) 3, each
   comprising an input transducer for converting the acoustically propagated
   sound signal(s) 6, 8 (APTS+N) to an electric input signal in the respective
   His, AND at least one of the His comprising a receiver for receiving the
10 wirelessly transmitted signal (WLS) 4 and extracting a streamed target
   audio signal (which is typically not in phase with the acoustically
   propagated target signal). The wireless link can be based on a near-field
   coupling, e.g. an inductive coupling, between inductors of the TV
   transmitter and the        HI-receiver(s)  or based   on radiated   (far-field)
15 electromagnetic fields. The transmission can be based on analogue or
   digitally modulated signals. In the embodiment of FIG. la, a link based on
   radiated fields and operating according to the Bluetooth specification is
   anticipated (cf. transmitter BT-Tx of the TV-set and receiver BT-Rx of the
   hearing instrument(s)).      A communication     between the two hearing
20 instruments allowing the exchange of control and/or status information
   and/or audio signals is preferably implemented. This wireless link can e.g.
   be based on near-field or far-field electromagnetic communication. Various
   aspects of inductive communication are discussed e.g. in EP 1 107 472 A2
   and US 2005/0110700 Al. WO 2005/055654 and WO 2005/053179
25 describe various aspects of a hearing aid comprising an induction coil for
   inductive communication with other units. US 2008/0013763 Al describes
   a system for wireless audio transmission with a low delay from a
   transmission device (e.g. a TV-set) to a hearing device, e.g. based on
   radiated fields and Bluetooth. A wireless link protocol is e.g. described in
30 US 2005/0255843 Al.
   FIG.    lb shows an embodiment of an audio enhancement system
   comprising a wireless microphone M located at a variable position MP(t) =
   [Xm(t), Ym(t), Zm(t)] (t being time, and X, Y, Z being the coordinates of the
35 position in an xyz-coordinate system) for picking up the voice (mixed with
   possible noise in the environment of the microphone) of a speaker S

                                          20
   located at a variable position SP(t) = [Xs(t), Ys(t), Zs(t)], the wireless
   microphone being adapted to wirelessly transmit the picked up target
   signal. The system may further comprise a broadcast access point BAP
   located at a fixed position BP = [Xbp,  Ybp, Zbp], and adapted for relaying the
 5 radio signal from the wireless microphone. The system additionally
   comprises a pair of listening devices (e.g. hearing aids) worn at the ears of
   a listener L located at a variable position LP(t) = [Xi(t), Yi(t), Zi(t)] and
   adapted to receive the wirelessly transmitted (audio) signal from the
   wireless microphone (e.g. via the broadcast access point) as well as the
10 directly propagated audio signal from the speaker (mixed with possible
   other sounds and acoustic noise from the surroundings of the user).
   AR(f,t),  AL(f,t), Amic(f,t) represent acoustic transfer functions from the
   speaker to the Right hearing instrument, to the Left hearing instrument and
   to the wireless microphone, respectively. The acoustic transfer functions
15 A(f,t) are dependent on frequency f and time t. The acoustic propagation
   delay in air is around 3 ms/m (i.e. propagation path of 10 m's length
   induces a delay of around 30 ms in the acoustically propagated signal).
   RT(f) and RF(f) represent radio transfer functions from the wireless
   microphone to the broadcast access point and from the broadcast access
20 point to the hearing instruments, respectively (assumed equal for the two
   left and right HI-positions). The radio transfer functions R(f) are dependent
   on frequency f but assumed independent of time.
   FIG. 1c illustrates an application of an audio enhancement system in a
25 small group comprising a speaker S speaking a target signal into a
   microphone M (here a wireless microphone) comprising a transmitter Tx
   for wirelessly transmitting a signal WLS comprising the electrical target
   audio signal picked up by the microphone to one or more listeners L (here
   three are shown) wearing a listening device LD at one or both ears. The
30 spoken target signal ATS is acoustically propagated to the listeners (and
   typically distorted, attenuated and mixed with other sounds along the path
   to the listener(s), as indicated by signals APS, APS'). The listening device
   LD comprises an audio enhancement device for estimating the target
   signal from the acoustically propagated electric signal and the streamed
35 target audio signal using an adaptive system.

                                           21
   FIG. 1d illustrates an application of an audio enhancement system in a
   public address system, e.g. in a class room or auditorium or entertainment
   application (e.g. karaoke), where a speaker S (e.g. a teacher) speaks or
   sings a target signal (myyyyy waaaayy) into a microphone M (e.g. a
 5 wireless    microphone,       here   a  wired   microphone   is   shown)    in
   communication with a base station BS comprising circuitry for driving a
   loudspeaker (and possibly adding music or other sounds to the signal) for
   acoustically propagating the resulting signal to one or more listeners L (the
   signal being typically distorted, attenuated and mixed with other sounds
10 along the path to the listener(s) as indicated by the diminishing character
   size in myyyyy waaaayy). The base station further comprises a transmitter
    Tx for wirelessly transmitting a signal WLS comprising the electrical target
   audio signal picked up by the microphone (and possibly added sounds,
   e.g. accompanying music) to one or more listeners L wearing a listening
15 device at one or both ears (here three are shown wearing listening devices
   LD and two listeners are shown only receiving the acoustically propagated
   signal). The listening devices comprise an audio enhancement device for
   estimating the target signal from the acoustically propagated electric signal
   and the streamed target audio signal using an adaptive system.
20
   FIG. 2 shows block diagrams of various audio enhancement devices
   according to embodiments of the invention.
   The embodiments of FIG. 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e, 2f, 2g, 2h and 2i each
25 comprise a receiver of a wireless signal comprising an antenna, an
   amplifier and a demodulator adapted for extracting a target audio signal
   (termed the streamed target audio signal) from the wirelessly received
   signal. The receiver of a wireless signal may additionally comprise
   analogue to digital (AD) converter and/or time to frequency (t->f)
30 conversion units (cf. e.g. filter bank unit FB in FIG. 2h, 2i). The audio
   enhancement device further comprises at least one microphone (in the
   embodiments of FIG. 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e and 2f one microphone is
   indicated, whereas the embodiment in FIG. 2g comprises a multitude of
   microphones mi,      ... , mn) for converting an input sound to an electrical
35 input signal, the input sound e.g. comprising a mixture of a target signal
   from an acoustic source and noise signals from the environment (termed

                                          22
   the propagated electric signal). The microphone(s) may additionally
   comprise analogue to digital converting units and/or a time to frequency
   conversion units (or such units may be implemented elsewhere in the
   audio enhancement device depending on practical circumstances, cf. e.g.
 5 filter banks FB in FIG. 2h, 2i).
    In the most general embodiment of FIG 2a, the audio enhancement device
   (AE in FIG. 2a) - in a addition to the receiver circuitry for receiving the
   acoustically and wirelessly propagated signals - further comprises an
10 audio enhancement unit (AS in FIG. 2a) receiving as inputs the streamed
   target audio signal comprising the target audio signal and the acoustically
   propagated signal, the audio enhancement unit comprising an adaptive
   system (e.g. an adaptive filter) adapted for estimating the target signal
   from the propagated electric signal and the streamed target audio signal
15 and providing an enhanced target signal as an output (OUT in FIG. 2a).
   The output can e.g. be further processed in a signal processing unit (e.g.
   introducing user specific processing to adapt the signal to a particular
   user's hearing needs).
20  In the embodiments of FIG. 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e and 2g, the audio enhancement
   unit (AS in FIG. 2a) comprises an estimator unit (E in FIG. 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e
   and ESTIMATOR in FIG. 2g) and an actuator unit (A in FIG. 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e
   and ACTUATOR in FIG. 2g), one unit taking the propagated electric signal
   as a first input, the other taking the streamed target audio signal as a first
25 input. The estimator unit is adapted for extracting characteristics of the
   input    signal(s)  and   providing   a   control output  comprising    such
   characteristics as a second input to the actuator unit. The actuator unit is
   adapted for providing as an output (OUT) an estimate of the target signal
   based on its first and second inputs. In the embodiments of FIG. 2b, 2c,
30 2d, 2e and 2g, the enhanced target signal as an output (OUT) of the
   actuator unit is fed to the estimator unit and used in the extraction of said
   characteristics.
   FIG. 2b and 2c illustrates embodiments, where the target signal is
35 estimated based on the acoustically propagated signal (propagated
   electric signal)    using the streamed target audio signal to extract

                                           23
   characteristics of the target signal. In the embodiment of FIG. 2c, the
   propagated electric input signal to the actuator unit is additionally fed to
   the estimator unit and used in the extraction of the characteristics of the
   target signal.
 5
   FIG. 2d and 2e illustrates embodiments where the target signal is
   estimated based on the electromagnetically propagated signal (the
   streamed target audio signal) using the acoustically propagated electric
   signal   to   extract   characteristics    of the propagation  path     (room
10 characteristics, distance, head related transfer functions, etc.). In the
   embodiment of FIG. 2e, the streamed target audio input signal to the
   actuator unit is additionally fed to the estimator unit and used in the
   extraction of the characteristics of the target signal (e.g. concerning the
   influence of the room).
15
   FIG. 2f shows an embodiment of an audio enhancement device as in FIG.
   2a, additionally comprising a control output signal CTR2 comprising
   characteristics of the target signal extracted from the streamed target
   audio input signal and/or from the propagated electric signal e.g. for use
20 as an input to other processing algorithms further down the forward path of
   the estimated target signal, e.g. for adapting the target signal to a user's
   hearing profile e.g. of a communication device, such as a mobile
   telephone or a listening device, such as a hearing instrument.
25 FIG.   2g shows an embodiment of an audio enhancement device
   comprising a multitude of microphones where the target signal is
   estimated based on the acoustically propagated signal (propagated
   electric   signal).   The   audio     enhancement   device   comprises      an
   ESTIMATOR unit for extracting characteristics (a model) of a target signal
30 from the wirelessly received target audio signal WIN. Additionally, the
   electrical input signal(s) AINi, AIN2, ..., AINn from the microphones ml,
    ... imn, and the estimate of the target signal OUT are fed to the
   ESTIMATOR unit as inputs. The ESTIMATOR unit provides as an output a
   control signal CTRL indicative of characteristics of the target signal. The
35 audio enhancement device further comprises an ACTUATOR                 unit for
   adapting the electrical input signals from microphones ml,        ... , mn to

                                         24
   provide as an output OUT an estimate of the target signal based on the
   electrical input signals from microphones and the control signal(s) CTRL
   from    the ESTIMATOR        unit. The output OUT is fed       back to the
   ESTIMATOR unit and used in the determination of the control signal
 5 output CTRL. The output OUT of the ACTAUTOR unit is e.g. used as an
   input to a signal processing unit for further signal processing relevant for
   the device in question which the audio enhancement device forms part of,
   e.g. a listening device, such as a hearing aid. Further signal processing
   may e.g. include adapting the signal to a user's specific needs (e.g.
10 applying a frequency dependent gain, compression, feedback cancellation,
   etc.). Other possible devices hosting an audio enhancement device
   according to the invention are a headset, an active earplug, a pair of
   headphones, an ASR (Automatic Speech Recognition) system, etc.
15 FIG. 2h and 2i show embodiments of an audio enhancement device where
   the acoustically and wirelessly propagated input signals are processed in
   the frequency domain. In both embodiments, the streamed target audio
   signal WIN and the propagated electric signal AIN are fed to respective
   filter banks FB for splitting the input signals in a number of signals each
20 representing a part of the frequency range of the input signal. FIG. 2h
   shows an embodiment where the output OUT from the AS unit
   representing the estimate of the target signal is synthesized to one (time
   dependent) signal e.g. for being presented to a user via an output
   transducer, whereas FIG. 2i provides the estimate of the target signal OUT
25 from the AS unit in the (time) frequency domain.
   FIG. 3 illustrates two embodiments of the invention implementing an audio
   enhancement device. The audio enhancement device comprises a
   wireless receiver in the form of an antenna and corresponding electronic
30 circuitry adapted for picking up a wirelessly transmitted signal comprising
   an audio signal and demodulating it to an electrical signal representing the
   wirelessly received (target) audio signal transmitted (e.g. streamed) from
   an entertainment device, e.g. a PC or a TV-set. The acoustic signal
   comprising the target signal, e.g. the sound from a PC or a TV-set or a
35 voice from a speaker or singer, and other (possibly unwanted) sources of
   sound or noise in the environment is picked up by a (e.g. directional)

                                           25
   microphone system of the audio enhancement device (the embodiment of
   FIG. 3a comprising a single microphone m, the embodiment of FIG. 3b
   comprising a multitude of microphones mi, m2, .... mn). The electric input
   signal(s) from the microphone m (FIG. 3a) or the multitude of microphones
 5 mI,   m2, .... mn (FIG. 3b) is(are) fed to corresponding filter banks FB (FIG.
   3a) and FBI, FB 2,...., FBn (FIG. 3b), respectively, for converting the time
   variant electric input signal(s) to the (time-) frequency domain. Instead of
   filter banks, any other time to frequency conversion elements (e.g. Fourier
   Transform algorithms, such as FFT) may be used, if appropriate. The
10 outputs from the filter bank(s) connected to the microphone(s) is(are) fed
   to each their adaptive filters (FIR, LMS) for estimating the target signal
   (here a FIR-filter with an LMS algorithm is indicated; other filters (e.g. IIR)
   and algorithms (e.g. RLS) may be used). The wirelessly received, 'clean'
   version of the target signal is fed to a filter bank FB for conversion to the
15 (time-) frequency domain. Depending on the actual acoustic propagation
   distance in the room in question, the delay of the input transducer and
   associated circuitry and the delay of units for possible coding, error
   correction, etc., and on the transmission- and reception-delays of the
   wirelessly transmitted signal, either of the two signal paths may have the
20 larger propagation delay from the acoustic source to the audio device (cf.
   e.g. FIG. lb for an example of an acoustic and an electromagnetic
   propagation path). In the embodiment of FIG. 3, it is assumed that the
   wirelessly transmitted signal is delayed more than the acoustically
   transmitted signal. The amount of delay between the streamed signal and
25 the acoustically received signal is estimated and controlled by a delay
   control unit (DELAY CTRL) receiving copies of the filter coefficients
   (COEFF) from the algorithm part(s) (LMS) of the adaptive filter(s) (FIR,
   LMS). The delay control unit may e.g. be implemented by an adaptive
   filter. The estimated target signal OUT is in the embodiment of FIG. 3a the
30 output of the single variable filter part (FIR) of the single adaptive filter
   (FIR, LMS) and in the embodiment of FIG. 3b the output of multi input
   SUM unit ('+' in FIG. 3b) providing a (possibly weighted) sum of the
   outputs of the multitude of variable filter parts (FIR) of the multitude of
   adaptive filters (FIR, LMS). The estimated target signal OUT is e.g. fed to
35 a signal processor (e.g. for further processing of the signal, such as
   applying a frequency dependent gain according to a user's needs,

                                          26
   compression, noise reduction, etc.) and is further branched off to a delay
   unit (A), which delays the estimated target signal (OUT) by an estimated
   delay controlled by the output (DELAY) of the delay control unit (DELAY
    CTRL), The output of the delay unit (A) is subtracted (in SUM unit '+') from
 5 the wirelessly received (streamed) target signal. The delay unit can be
   implemented as variable delay line or as a programmable wait routine in a
   software algorithm. The resulting signal is fed to the algorithm part (LMS)
   of the adaptive filters (the multitude if algorithm parts (LMS) in the
   embodiment of FIG. 3b) and used to determine (update) the filter
10 coefficients of the adaptive filter. Thereby the wirelessly received
   (streamed) target signal is used to estimate the target signal extracted
   from the acoustically received signal and the delay problem is eliminated.
   The dashed (FIG. 3a), respectively solid (FIG. 3b), line enclosing units
   LMS, A, DELAY CTRL and a SUM-unit '+' indicates elements of the
15 ESTIMATOR units of FIG. 2b-2e, 2g. The variable filter part(s) (FIR) of the
   adaptive filter(s) (LMS, FIR) (and the sum unit '+' in FIG. 3b connected to
   the outputs of the variable filter parts) represent(s) the ACTUATOR unit of
   FIG. 2b-2e, 2g.
20 The proposed scheme can be used to correct or re-establish the audio
   characteristics ('audio fingerprints') of the received acoustic signal in
   accordance with the target signal, e.g. spectral, temporal and modulation
   characteristics (such as pitch, onset, offset, cepstral coefficients, MFCC
   (Mel Frequency Cepstral Coefficients, etc.). Further, the proposed scheme
25 can be used to compensate for non-linearities in loudspeakers in a room
   (so that the resulting version of the sound signal is NOT 'destroyed' by bad
   components). Such characteristics can e.g. be extracted from the
   wirelessly    received   target    signal   (possibly   in combination    with
   corresponding characteristics extracted from the propagated electric
30 signal) in the ESTIMATOR unit and applied to the estimate of the target
   signal in the ACTUATOR unit by means of control signals CTR (cf. e.g.
   FIG. 2b, 2c, 2g, 3).
   FIG. 4 shows a listening device comprising an audio enhancement device
35 according to an embodiment of the invention. The listening device 400
   (LD), e.g. a hearing instrument, comprises an audio enhancement device

                                          27
   (AE) 40 (enclosed by the dotted rectangle), a signal processing unit (DSP)
   48, a digital to analogue converter (DA) 49 and an output transducer 50
   (here a receiver). The audio enhancement device 40 comprises a
   microphone system 41 (depicted as a single microphone but in practice
 5 possibly comprising a multitude of microphones) for converting an input
   sound comprising a target sound and a noise signal (cf. Acoustic
    Target+Noise in FIG. 4) to an (propagated) electric input signal AIN
   comprising said target signal and said noise signal, an analogue to digital
   converter (AD) 42 for providing a digitized electric input signal comprising
10 said target signal and said noise signal. The digitized electric input signal
   is fed to the audio enhancement unit (AS) 47, as e.g. depicted in more
   detail in FIG. 2b-2e, 2g and 3a-3b (comprising the ESTIMATOR and
   ACTUATOR blocks in FIG. 2 and their equivalents in FIG. 3). The audio
   enhancement device 40 further comprises a wireless receiver (comprising
15 antenna 44 and receiver unit (Rx) 45) for receiving a signal (cf.
   ElectroMagnetic Target in FIG. 4) comprising the target audio signal and
   for extracting said (streamed) target audio signal. The target audio signal
   is digitized in analogue to digital converter (AD) 46. The digitized output of
   the AD-converter comprising the wirelessly received target audio signal is
20 fed to the audio enhancement unit (AS) 47. The signal processing unit 48
   (DSP) is adapted to process the output signal OUT from the audio
   enhancement unit (AS), e.g. to adapt the signal to a specific user's hearing
   profile (including applying a frequency dependent gain). The signal from
   the signal processing unit 48 is connected to the DA-converter 49, whose
25 analogue output is fed to the receiver 50 for presenting an Enhanced
   output to a user. The hearing instrument may further comprise other
   circuitry for improving the signal presented to the user, e.g. an anti
   feedback system.
30 FIG. 5 shows an example of an audio enhancement system according to
   an embodiment of the invention, the system comprising an audio
   enhancement device wherein the target signal is estimated based on the
   acoustically propagated      signal based on      LMS deconvolution. The
   embodiment of an audio enhancement              system   shown     in FIG.   5
35 entertainment device 30 comprising an audio source (comprising electrical
   target signal S and speaker 31 for converting the target signal S to an

                                           28
   acoustic target signal), and a transmitting device (comprising transmitter
   (Tx) 33 and antenna 32) for generating a wireless signal comprising a
   representation of the target signal in the form of a target audio signal. The
   audio enhancement system further comprises a receiving device 40
 5 comprising an audio enhancement device (AE). The acoustic target signal
   generated by the speaker 31 follows an acoustic propagation path (cf.
   arrow denoted AC DA, H in FIG. 5) from the speaker 31 to the microphone
   41 of the audio enhancement device 40. Along the acoustic propagation
   path, the acoustically propagated target signal is modified, including being
10 delayed by an amount     DA and subject to a (typically frequency dependent)
   transfer function H. Also other acoustic source signals in the environment
   are added along the acoustic propagation path (cf. arrow denoted AC N) in
   FIG. 5. Likewise, the wireless signal generated by the transmitter 33, 32
   follows an electromagnetic propagation path (cf. arrow denoted EM DEM in
15 FIG. 5) from the transmitter (33, 32) of the entertainment device 30 to the
   receiver (44, 45) of the audio enhancement device 40. The audio
   enhancement device comprises a microphone system 41 for converting
   the acoustically propagated signal from the speaker 31 to an electric input
   signal and an AD-converter 42 for sampling the electric input signal and
20 providing a digitized input signal 421, which is fed to an adaptive system
   48 (Hest), e.g. an adaptive filter, for providing as an output OUT an
   estimate of the target signal. The audio enhancement device 40 further
   comprises a wireless receiver (comprising antenna 44 and receiver unit
   (Rx) 45) for receiving a signal comprising the target audio signal and for
25 extracting said (streamed) target audio signal. The target audio signal is
   digitized in analogue to digital converter (AD) 46, whose output the
   digitized streamed target audio signal 461 is fed to a delay estimate unit
   47 (ADest) together with the digitized propagated electric signal 421, the
   delay estimate unit 47 being adapted for estimating the difference (DA
30 DEM)   in delay between the two input signals and providing as an output
   471 a digitized streamed target audio signal delayed by     DA-DEM  (here DA is
   assumed to be larger than     DEM;   if this is not the case, the order of the
   delays should be reversed). The delayed digitized streamed target audio
   signal 471 is subtracted from the estimate of the target signal OUT in SUM
35 unit 49 (+). The resulting signal is used in the adaptive system 48 (Hest) for
   estimating the acoustic propagation path H resulting in a transfer function

                                          29
   providing an estimate of H-1 (Hest- 1). The wirelessly propagated signal
   received at the receiver is delayed by    DEM (DEM   possibly including delays
   in Tx, Rx, and AD units) and can be written as       S.z-DE,' . The acoustically
   propagated signal picked up by the microphone 41 can be written as
 5 S-z-D    -H+N (DA possibly including delays in microphone and AD
   conversion units). The delay estimate unit 47 (ADest) estimates the delay
   difference (DA -   DEM)  providing the transfer function  z-(DA-Dv)  resulting in
   an output signal 471 of the ADest unit of the form S.z-DA           . The delay
   difference (DA - DEM) may e.g. be determined by considering the cross
10 correlation between the two input signals. The resulting output OUT of the
   adaptive system 48 can thus be written as S.      z-D-  H.H' +N-H-.         If Hest
   is a good estimate of H, the output OUT (OUT         = S. z-D   +N.H- ) of the
   signal enhancement unit comprises the estimate of the target signal plus a
   noise contribution      coloured   by the   estimate    Hest   of the   acoustic
15 propagation path (comprising contributions from the environment, e.g.
   reflections of a room and its contents, the loudspeaker 31, the microphone
   41, etc.). The smaller the noise contribution N, the better the target signal
   estimate. If a noise component Ni contributing to the total noise N is
   constant (or periodic), e.g. originating from a fan, a dish washing machine
20 or the like, such contribution may be filtered out, thereby improving the
   target signal estimate.
   FIG. 6 shows an audio enhancement system according to an embodiment
   of the invention, the system comprising an audio enhancement device
25 wherein the target signal is estimated based on the electromagnetically
   propagated signal. The embodiment of an audio enhancement system of
   FIG. 6 resembles the embodiment of FIG. 5. The roles of the acoustically
   and wirelessly propagated signals in the estimation of the target signal are,
   however, switched. The entertainment device 30 (e.g. an A/V-device, such
30 as a TV) and the propagation scenario is assumed to be equivalent to that
   of FIG. 5. In the following, only the receiving device 60 comprising an
   audio enhancement device (AE) is described. The audio enhancement
   device (AE) comprises a microphone system 61 for converting the
   acoustically propagated signal from the speaker 31 to an electric input
35 signal and an AD-converter 62 for sampling the electric input signal and
   providing a digitized input signal 621, which is fed to a delay estimate unit

                                            30
   67 (LDest) as well as to SUM unit 69 ('+). The audio enhancement device
   60 further comprises a wireless receiver (comprising antenna 64 and
   receiver unit (Rx) 65) for receiving a signal comprising the target audio
   signal and for extracting said (streamed) target audio signal. The target
 5 audio signal is digitized in analogue to digital converter (AD) 66, whose
   output the digitized streamed target audio signal 661 is fed to the delay
   estimate unit 67 (ADest) together with the digitized propagated electric
   signal 621, the delay estimate unit 67 being adapted for estimating the
   difference (DA - DEM) in delay between the two input signals and providing
10 as an output 671 a digitized streamed target audio signal delayed by             DA
   DEM    (here  DA  is assumed to be larger than   DEM; if this is not the case, the
   order of the delays should be reversed). The delayed digitized streamed
   target audio signal 671 is fed to an adaptive system 68 (Hest) for providing
   as an output OUT an estimate of the target signal. The output OUT of the
15 adaptive system (e.g. an adaptive filter, e.g. a FIR filter) is subtracted from
   the digitized propagated electric signal 621 in SUM unit 69 (+). The
   resulting signal is used in the adaptive system 68       (Hest), e.g. implemented
   using an adaptive filter, for estimating the acoustic propagation path H
   resulting in a transfer function providing an estimate of H              (Hest). The
20 wirelessly propagated signal received at the receiver is delayed by              DEM
   (DEM    possibly including delays in Tx, Rx, and AD units) and can be written
   as S- Z-D,'     . The acoustically propagated signal picked up by the
   microphone 61 can be written as S-z_-D -H+N (DA possibly including
   delays in microphone and AD-conversion units). The delay estimate unit
25 67 (ADest) estimates the delay difference (DA - DEM) providing the transfer
   function   z-(DA-Df)   resulting in an output signal 671 of the ADest unit of the
   form S-z_-D.      The delay difference (DA - DEM) may e.g. be determined by
   considering the cross correlation between the two input signals. The
   output of the SUM unit 69 used for estimating the acoustic propagation
30 path      H    in    the    adaptive    system    68    can      be    written    as
    S -z-DA H+N-S .       z-DA - Hs, . The resulting output OUT of the adaptive
   system 68 can be written as OUT = S z-DA - H,, . If Hest is a good estimate
   of H, the output OUT of the signal enhancement unit comprises the
   estimate of the target signal coloured by the estimate         Hest of the acoustic
35 propagation path (comprising contributions from the environment, e.g.
   reflections of a room and its contents, head-related transfer functions

                                         31
   HRTF, the loudspeaker 31, the microphone 41, etc.). The colouring of the
   otherwise 'clean', wirelessly transmitted target signal can e.g. be of
   interest in specific situations. In a preferred embodiment, the above
   described way of estimating the target signal based on the wirelessly
 5 propagated signal is used in specific listening situations, where an
   impression of the room or other acoustic environment (e.g. a concert
   situation) is of importance, is e.g. implemented in a specific program of a
   listening device, e.g. a hearing instrument, such program being e.g.
   adapted to be switched on and off by the user. In an embodiment
10 comprising two listening devices, one located at or in each ear of a user,
   the above scheme provides the possibility to implement individualized
   HRTFs. In an embodiment, the adaptive system 68         (Hest) for estimating
   the acoustic propagation path H comprises an adaptive filter of an order
   higher than 60, such as higher than 120, such as higher than 240.
15
   FIG. 7 shows block diagrams of two embodiments of a listening device
   according to the invention, the listening devices comprising and audio
   enhancement device (AE) electrically connected to a signal processing
   unit (DSP) and a speaker/receiver, said devices comprising a forward path
20 for a target audio signal. The embodiments of the audio enhancement
   device (AE) of FIG. 7a and 7b comprise the same elements as the
   embodiments shown in FIG. 2b and 2c, respectively. Additionally, the
   embodiments of an audio enhancement device (AE) of FIG. 7a and 7b
   comprise (as in FIG. 2f) an output signal CTR2 comprising characteristics
25 of the target signal extracted from the streamed target audio input signal
   and/or from the propagated electric signal for use as an input to the signal
   processing unit (DSP). FIG. 7a shows an embodiment where the target
   signal is estimated based on the acoustically propagated signal (AIN) and
   characteristics    of   the   target   signal  are   extracted     from   the
30 electromagnetically propagated signal (WIN) and used (signal CTR1) in
   the estimate of the target signal OUT. FIG. 7b shows an embodiment
   where the target signal is estimated based on the electromagnetically
   propagated signal (WIN) and characteristics of the target signal are
   extracted from the acoustically propagated signal (AIN) and used (signal
35  CTR1) in the estimate of the target signal OUT. The listening devices of
   FIG. 7 may form part of a communication device, such as a mobile

                                         32
   telephone or a listening device, such as a hearing instrument. In an
   embodiment, digital processing parts of the audio enhancement unit (AE),
   e.g. the estimator (E) and actuator (A) units, form part of a digital signal
   processor. In an embodiment, some or all of the functions of the estimator
 5 (E) and actuator (A) units are implemented as software algorithms.
   FIG. 8 shows an audio enhancement system adapted for enhancement of
   a particular voice according to an embodiment of the invention. The
   embodiment of an audio enhancement system shown in FIG. 8 comprises
10 at least two listening devices, e.g. hearing instruments (or pairs of listening
   devices, e.g. hearing instruments), a first device HA1 being worn by a first
   user whose voice is acting as an audio source for generating an acoustic
   target signal owl and, the first device HA1 comprising a transmitting
   device (Tx and antenna in HA1) for generating a wireless signal owl
15 em(DEM) comprising a representation of said target signal owl in the form
   of a streamed target audio signal. The audio enhancement system further
   comprises a second listening device HA2 (cf. e.g. described in connection
   with   FIG. 7a) worn by a second user and comprising an audio
   enhancement device comprising a receiving device (antenna in HA2 and
20 other receive and demodulation circuitry, not shown). The acoustic
   propagation path from the acoustic source of the target signal owl (user
   one) to the listening device HA2 worn by user 2 is characterized by
   transfer function H and delay DA resulting in signal owl(H, DA) received by
   HA2 (here neglecting possible noise N added to the acoustic signal). The
25 transmitting device HAl comprises a microphone for picking up an input
   sound, here a user's voice owl and converting the input sound to an
   analogue electric input signal, which is digitized in an analogue to digital
   converter AD whose digitized output is fed to a processing unit DSP
   comprising an own voice detector OWD for detecting and extracting a
30 user's own voice (this can e.g. be implemented as described in WO
   2004/077090 Al or in EP 1 956 589 Al). A signal comprising the user's
   own voice (or characteristics thereof) is fed to a transmitter Tx and
   wirelessly transmitted to the receiving device HA2 (via antennas of the
   transmitting and receiving devices). The wireless propagation path of the
35 target signal owl-em from the transmitting device HAl to the receiving
   device HA2 is characterized by a delay DEM, resulting in signal owl-

                                         33
   em(DEM) being received by HA2. The audio enhancement unit AE of HA2
   is adapted to estimate the target signal owl (the voice of user 1) based on
   the received wirelessly streamed signal owl-em(DEM) (as e.g. described in
   connection with FIG. 5), whereby the output signal OUT of the audio
 5 enhancement unit of HA2 comprises an enhanced version of the
   acoustically propagated voice of user 1 (target signal). The estimated
   target signal (OUT) is fed to a signal processing unit DSP for possible
   further processing of the signal and eventual presentation of an enhanced
   (user adapted) output signal to user 2 via an output transducer (here a
10 receiver). A further signal CTR from the audio enhancement               unit
   comprising characteristics of the target signal is fed to the signal
   processing unit and used in the further processing of the estimated target
   signal (OUT). The forward path of the listening device HA1 worn by user 1
   comprises a number of electrically connected elements including - in
15 addition to the microphone, AD-converter and signal processing unit (DSP)
   - a digital to analogue converter (DA) and a receiver for converting an
   electric signal to an output sound for being presented to user 1. In an
   embodiment,     the   first listening  device HA1    comprises    an   audio
   enhancement unit AE as illustrated in HA2. In an embodiment, both
20 listening devices HA1 and HA2 are essentially identical, e.g. so that HA1 is
   specifically adapted to estimate the voice of user 2, e.g. as described
   above for HA2.
   FIG. 9 shows a flow diagram of a method of enhancing an audio signal in
25 a receiving device according to an embodiment of the present invention.
   The method comprises
   S1.   Acoustically propagating a target signal from an acoustic source
   along an acoustic propagation path, providing a propagated acoustic
   signal at the receiving device;
30 S2. Converting the received propagated acoustic signal to a propagated
   electric signal, the received propagated acoustic signal comprising the
   target signal, noise and possible other sounds from the environment as
   modified by the propagation path from the acoustic source to the receiving
   device;
35 S3. Wirelessly transmitting a signal comprising the target audio signal to
   the receiving device;

                                          34
   S4.   Receiving the wirelessly transmitted signal in the receiving device;
   S5.   Retrieving a streamed target audio signal from the wirelessly
   received signal comprising the target audio signal;
   S6.   Estimating the target signal from the propagated electric signal and
 5 the streamed target audio signal using an adaptive system or algorithm.
   Preferably, at least some of the steps of the method are implemented as
   software   algorithms.   In an    embodiment,     at least step 6 (S6)      is
   implemented     as one or more software algorithms. Preferably such
10 software algorithms are adapted for running on a signal processing unit of
   the receiving device, e.g. a listening device, e.g. a hearing instrument.
   FIG. 10 shows an example of characteristics of the streamed target audio
   signal, here modulation index MI vs. time t (FIG. 10a) and resulting inputs
15 to a processing algorithm providing gain G [dB] vs. modulation index MI.
   FIG. 10a schematically shows a voice signal input (amplitude A vs. time t)
   for a wirelessly received target audio signal (Streamed audio signal). The
   signal varies between a bottom tracker level (BT) and a top tracker level
   (TT). The modulation index (MI) indicates the ratios of (difference between
20 in a dB-terms) the top tracker level and the bottom tracker level. The
   bottom tracker can be taken as an estimate of the noise floor, Nest.,
   whereas the top tracker can be taken as an estimate of the signal (S) plus
   noise (N), (S+N)est. Various aspects of noise reduction using the
   modulation    index or modulation       amplitude    are  discussed in    WO
25 2005/086536 Al. These characteristics of the streamed target audio signal
   can be used in a voice controlled noise reduction algorithm to scale gain of
   the propagated electric signal as indicated in FIG. 10b, where gain (G
   [dB]) vs. modulation index (MI) is schematically shown. For values of the
   modulation index MI below a value M1l (e.g. 0.5), gain G applied to the
30 propagated electric signal is constant G1 [dB] (e.g 12 dB), whereas
   applied gain decreases linearly (in dB) for values of MI larger than Ml.
   The appropriate values of G1 and M1l           may vary depending on the
   acoustic environment, the specific listening device, etc. The characteristics
   of FIG. 10 can e.g. be used in an embodiment of an audio enhancement
35 device as shown in FIG. 2d, where the estimator unit (E) comprises a
   voice detector for detecting a voice in the propagated electric signal and

                                        35
   an algorithm for extracting a modulation index and determining a
   corresponding gain, and an activator unit (A) comprising an algorithm for
   correspondingly applying the appropriate gain to the propagated electric
   signal.
 5
   FIG. 11 shows an example of a comparison of characteristics of the
   streamed target audio signal with those of the acoustically propagated
   signal. FIG. 11a schematically shows a voice signal input (amplitude A vs.
   time t) for a wirelessly received streamed target audio signal (Streamed
10 audio signal, dashed graph) and for the corresponding propagated electric
   signal (Acoustically propagated signal, solid graph). The signals vary
   between a bottom tracker level (BT) and a top tracker level (TT), here
   denoted BT-S, TT-S and BT-A, TT-A for the streamed target audio signal
   and the propagated electric signal, respectively. The modulation indices
15 MI-S and MI-A for the streamed target audio signal and the propagated
   electric signal, respectively, are indicated. FIG. 11b and 11c show
   resulting inputs to processing algorithms based on the respective top and
   bottom tracker data. FIG. 11 b shows data for incremental gain AG [dB] vs.
   frequency f extracted as the difference between the corresponding top
20 tracker (TT) vs. frequency data for the Streamed audio signal (dashed
   graph) and the Acoustically propagated signal (solid graph). These data
   are used as input to an algorithm for estimating signal gain. FIG. 11c
   shows data for incremental noise reduction ANR [dB] vs. frequency f
   extracted as the difference between the corresponding bottom tracker (BT)
25 vs. frequency data for the Streamed audio signal (dashed graph) and the
   Acoustically propagated signal (solid graph). These data are used as input
   to an algorithm for estimating noise reduction. The characteristics of FIG.
    11 can e.g. be used in an embodiment of an audio enhancement device as
   shown in FIG. 2h or 2i, where the audio enhancement unit (AS) comprises
30 an estimator unit (E) comprising an algorithm for detecting top and bottom
   trackers vs. frequency of the streamed target audio signal as well as for
   the propagated electric signal and for providing data for the frequency
   dependence of the difference between the top trackers and between the
   bottom trackers for the streamed target audio signal and the propagated
35 electric signal, respectively,   and an    activator unit (A) comprising

                                          36
   algorithm(s) for correspondingly applying the appropriate gains to the
   appropriate parts of the propagated electric signal.
   FIG. 12 shows an audio enhancement device according to an embodiment
 5 of the invention (FIG. 12A) and corresponding characteristics of the target
   signal, here level differences AG [dB] vs. frequency f (FIG. 12b). FIG. 12a
   shows an audio enhancement device (AE) comprising an antenna and
   corresponding receiver and demodulation circuitry for receiving (and
   demodulating) a wirelessly transmitted signal comprising a target audio
10 signal, the receiver being adapted for providing as an output a streamed
   target signal WIN. The streamed target signal WIN is connected to a time
   to frequency conversion unit, here a filter bank FB. The filter bank splits
   the input signal WIN into a number P of time variant signals (WINp=WIN1,
    WIN2, ..., WINP), each comprising a separate frequency range or band of
15 the input signal. Likewise, the audio enhancement device comprises a
   microphone for picking up the acoustically propagated signal comprising a
   target signal and providing a propagated electric signal AIN, which is
   connected to a time to frequency conversion unit, here a filter bank FB.
   The filter bank splits the input signal AIN into a number P of time variant
20 signals (AINp=A/N1,      AIN2,   ..., AINP), each comprising a separate
   frequency range or band of the input signal. The time-frequency domain
   signals WINp and AINp are connected to each their level detection units
   (LD) for detecting an input level of the individual signal components WINp
   and AINp. The outputs LD-wp (=LD-wl, LD-w2, ..., LD-wP) and LD-ap
25 (=LD-al, LD-a2, ..., LD-aP) representing, respectively, input level vs.
   frequency f (or index p, p=l, 2, ... , P) of the streamed target audio signal
   and the propagated electric signal are connected to a processing unit (C)
   for comparing the respective input levels at different frequencies, cf. FIG.
    12b depicting LD-w(f) (or corresponding values of LD-wp and p) (dashed
30 graph) and LD-a(f) (or corresponding values of LD-ap and p) (solid graph).
   Various aspects of level detection in a listening device is e.g. discussed in
   WO 2003/081947 Al. The two level detection units (LD) and the
   processing unit C together form part of an estimation unit (E), as indicated
   by the dashed outline enclosing these units. The processing unit
35 calculates e.g. values AG(f)=LD-w(f) - LD-a(f) at different frequencies (e.g.
   AG(p)=LD-wp - LD-ap, p=l, 2, ... , P). These values are fed to actuator

                                          37
   unit (A) as signals _Cp=(C1, C2, ..., CP), where they are used as inputs to
   an algorithm for modifying the gain of the propagated electric signal AlN,
   which are inputs to the actuator unit (taken from the corresponding filter
   bank FB). The output OUT of the actuator unit A provides an enhanced
 5 estimate of the target signal. The output OUT may be either in a time
   domain for being further processed or presented directly to a user via an
   output transducer or in the time frequency domain adapted for being
   subject to further processing in this framework.
10 The invention is defined by the features of the independent claim(s).
   Preferred embodiments are defined in the dependent claims.
   Some preferred embodiments have been described in the foregoing
   description, but it should be stressed that the invention is not limited to
15 these, but may be embodied in other ways, as will be apparent to a
   person skilled in the art.
   Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a person skilled
   in the art are deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
20
25

                                      38
   REFERENCES
   * [Boll, 1979] Boll, S., Suppression of acoustic noise in speech using
     spectral subtraction, IEEE Trans. Acoustics, Speech and Signal
 5   Processing, Vol. 27, Apr. 1979, pp. 113-120.
   0 [Makhoul, 1975] Makhoul, J., Linear prediction: A tutorial review,
     Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 63, No. 4, April 1975, pp. 561-580.
   * [Rabiner, 1989] L.R. Rabiner, A Tutorial on Hidden Markov Models and
     Selected Applications in Speech Recognition, Proceedings of the IEEE,
10   Vol. 77, No. 2, February 1989, pp. 257-286.
   * [Widrow et al., 1975] Bernard Widrow, John R. Glover, Jr., John M.
     McCool, John Kaunitz, Charles S. Williams, Robert H. Hean, James R.
     Zeidler, Eugene Dong, Jr., and Robert C. Goodlin, Adaptive Noise
     Cancelling: Principles and Applications, Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol.
15   63, No. 12, December 1975, pp. 1692-1716.
   * EP 1 107 472 A2 (SONY CORPORATION) 13-06-2001
   * US 2005/0110700 Al (STARKEY LABORATORIES) 26-05-2005
   * WO 2005/055654 (STARKEY LABORATORIES, OTICON) 16-06-2005
   * WO 2005/053179 (STARKEY LABORATORIES, OTICON) 09-06-2005
20 9 US 2008/0013763 Al (SIEMENS AUDIOLOGISCHE TECHNIK) 17-01
     2008
   * US 2005/0255843 Al (Hilpisch et al.) 17-11-2005
   * WO 2004/077090 Al (OTICON) 10-09-2004
   * EP 1 956 589 Al (OTICON) 13-08-2008
25 9 WO 03/081947 Al (OTICON) 02-10-2003
   0 WO 2005/086536 Al (OTICON) 15-09-2005

                                          39
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.    A method of enhancing an audio signal in a receiving device,
   comprising
 5 * Acoustically propagating a target signal from an acoustic source along
       an acoustic propagation path, providing a propagated acoustic signal at
       the receiving device;
   *   Converting the received propagated acoustic signal to a propagated
       electric signal, the received propagated acoustic signal comprising the
10     target signal, noise and possible other sounds from the environment as
       modified by the propagation path from the acoustic source to the
       receiving device;
   *   Wirelessly transmitting a signal comprising the target audio signal to
       the receiving device;
15 e   Receiving the wirelessly transmitted signal in the receiving device;
   *   Retrieving a streamed target audio signal from the wirelessly received
       signal comprising the target audio signal;
   *   Estimating the target signal from the propagated electric signal and the
       streamed target audio signal using an adaptive system, wherein the
20     adaptive system comprises an adaptive algorithm; and
   *   Estimating the target signal from the propagated electric signal using
       the streamed target audio signal or a signal derived there from as an
       input to said adaptive algorithm to improve the estimate of the target
       signal.
25
   2.    A method according to claim 1, comprising estimating the delay
   difference between the propagated electric signal and the streamed target
   audio signal or between signals originating there from.
30 3.    A method according to claim 2, comprising using the resulting delay
   difference in the estimation of the target signal.
   4.    A method according to any one of claims, 1-3 comprising estimating
   the target signal from the propagated electric signal using the streamed
35 target audio signal or a signal derived there from as an input to the
   adaptive algorithm to improve the estimate of the target signal.

                                          40
   5.     A method according to any one of claims 1-4, comprising performing
   at least some of the signal processing associated with enhancement of the
   audio signal in the receiving device in separate frequency ranges or
 5 bands.
   6.     A method according to any one of claims 1-5, comprising extracting
   characteristics of the target signal from the streamed target audio signal.
10 7.     A method according to claim 6, wherein the characteristics of the
   target signal include one or more of the following: the frequency spectrum,
   modulation at different frequencies, e.g. top/bottom trackers of a
   modulation index, onset/offset characteristics, input level.
15 8.     A method according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the extracted
   characteristics of the streamed target audio signal are used to as inputs to
   processing algorithms, e.g. gain or noise reduction algorithms, for
   improving the target signal.
20
   9.     An audio enhancement device for enhancing an audio signal,
   comprising
   at least one input transducer for converting a propagated acoustic signal
   comprising a target signal propagated from an acoustic source along an
25 acoustic propagation path to the audio enhancement device to a
   propagated electric signal;
   a wireless receiver for receiving a target audio signal via a wireless link
   and providing a streamed target audio signal; and
   a first adaptive system for estimating said target signal based on said
30 propagated electric input signal and said streamed target audio signal, the
   first adaptive system comprising an adaptive algorithm;
   wherein the adaptive system is configured to estimate the target signal
   from the propagated electric signal using the streamed target audio signal
   or a signal derived there from as an input to the adaptive algorithm.
35

                                         41
    10.  An audio enhancement device according to claim 9, comprising a
   first estimator unit for estimating the delay difference between the
   propagated electric signal and the streamed target audio signal or signals
   originating there from.
 5
    11.  An audio enhancement device according to claim 10, adapted for
   using the resulting delay difference in the estimation of the target signal.
    12.  An audio enhancement device according to any one of claims 9-11,
10 wherein the first adaptive system is adapted to base its estimate of the
   target signal on the propagated electric input signal and said estimated
   delay difference.
    13.  An audio enhancement device according to any one of claims 9-12,
15 comprising a second estimating unit for estimating characteristics of the
   target signal from the streamed target audio signal.
    14.  An audio enhancement device according to claim 13, adapted to
   provide that the extracted characteristics of the streamed target audio
20 signal are used to as inputs to processing algorithms for improving the
   target signal.
    15.  An audio enhancement device according to any one of claims 9-14,
   wherein said first adaptive system comprises an adaptive filter for
25 providing said estimate of the target signal, the adaptive filter comprising
   an algorithm part and a variable filter part where the algorithm part is
   adapted to update a filter characteristic of the variable filter part.
    16.  An audio enhancement device according to any one of claims 10-15,
30 wherein said first estimator unit comprises an adaptive filter for providing
   said estimate of the delay difference.
    17.  An audio enhancement device according to any one of claims 9-16,
   further comprising a signal processing unit for further processing said
35 estimate of the target signal.

                                          42
    18.  An audio enhancement device according to any one of claims 9-17,
   further comprising an output transducer for presenting the estimate of the
   target signal, or an output from a signal processing unit comprising a
   further processing of said estimate of the target signal to a user, as a
 5 stimulus adapted to be perceived by a user as an output sound.
    19.  An audio enhancement device according to claim 18, e.g. a hearing
   aid, wherein the output transducer comprises a receiver, or an output
   transducer of a cochlear implant, or of a bone conducting hearing device.
10
   20.   An audio enhancement device according to any one of claims 9-19,
   further comprising an estimator unit for estimating characteristics of the
   target signal from the streamed target audio signal, and adapted to
   provide that the extracted characteristics of the streamed target audio
15 signal are used as inputs to processing algorithms for improving the target
   signal to provide the same characteristics in the processed version of the
   target signal estimate as in the streamed target audio signal.
   21.   An audio enhancement device according to claim 20, wherein the
20 characteristics of the target signal include one or more of the following: the
   frequency spectrum, modulation at different frequencies, and onset/offset
   characteristics.
25 22.   An audio enhancement system, comprising an audio source for
   generating an acoustic target signal and a transmitting device for
   generating a wireless signal comprising a representation of said target
   signal in the form of a target audio signal and a receiving device
   comprising an audio enhancement device according to any one of claims
30 9-21.
   23.   An audio enhancement system according to claim 22, wherein said
   transmitting device is embodied in an entertainment device comprising a
   microphone and/or produce images and accompanying sound signals.
35

                                        43
   24.   An audio enhancement system according to claim 22 or 23, wherein
   said receiving device is embodied in a listening device, e.g. a body-worn
   listening device, e.g. comprising a headphone, a head set, an ear
   protection device and/or a hearing instrument.
 5
   25.   A tangible computer-readable medium storing a computer program
   comprising program code means for causing a data processing system to
   perform at least some of the steps of the method of any one of claims 1-8,
10 when said computer program is executed on the data processing system.
   26.   A data processing system comprising a processor and program code
   means for causing the processor to perform at least some of the steps of
15 the method of any one of claims 1-8.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
