                                    ABSTRACT
      According to a data transmission method and an apparatus provided in the
present invention, sparse code codebooks that can be used by a base station in a
coordinating cluster in data transmission with a terminal are mutually different. This
implements that base stations separately perform data transmission with the terminal
without performing data exchange or channel information exchange between the base
stations, thereby reducing system overheads and improving network transmission
efficiency.

                                      1/12
                                                                       101
A base station receives a codebook instruction sent by a controller
                                                                      102
   The base station sends a codebook notification to a terminal
                                                                        103
 The base station uses a coordination codebook to perform data
                  transmission with the terminal
                                     FIG. 1
                                                                     201
         A controller determines a coordinating cluster
                                                                     202
   The controller sends a codebook instruction to each base
                station in the coordinating cluster
                                     FIG. 2
                                                                    301
  A terminal receives a codebook notification sent by a base
                 station in a coordinating cluster
                                                                    302
   The terminal uses a coordination codebook notified in the
 codebook notification to perform data transmission with the
                            base station
                                     FIG. 3

         DATA TRANSMISSION METHOD AND APPARATUS
                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0001]       The present invention relates to the field of communications technologies,
   and in particular, to a data transmission method and an apparatus.
 5                                     BACKGROUND
   [0002]       Base station coordinated transmission refers to that multiple base stations
   in separated geographic locations coordinately participate in data transmission for one
   terminal or jointly receiving data sent by one terminal, where the multiple base
   stations participating in the coordination generally refer to base stations of different
10 cells. According to base station coordination technology, an edge user is served by
   several base stations on a same frequency, and the several base stations serve the user
   at the same time, so as to improve coverage performance for the edge user. By using
   base station coordination, interference between cells can be reduced, and primarily,
   spectral efficiency of a cell edge user can be improved.
15 [0003]       In a base station coordination implementation solution in the prior art, an
   amount of information exchanged between network nodes is relatively great. As a
   result, data transmission is relatively complex in a coordination process, impact on a
   backhaul system in a network is relatively great, and network transmission efficiency
   is relatively low.
20                                        SUMMARY
   [0004]       The present invention provides a data transmission method and an
   apparatus, which can resolve a problem of relatively high network information
   exchange overheads in a base station coordinated communications system.
   [0005]       To achieve the foregoing objective, the following technical solutions are
25 used in embodiments of the present invention:
   [0006]       According to a first aspect, an embodiment of the present invention

   provides a base station, including:
               a receiver, configured to receive a codebook instruction sent by a
   controller, where the codebook instruction is used to specify a codebook that can be
   used by the base station in data transmission with a terminal; the codebook belongs to
 5 a common sparse code codebook set; the common sparse code codebook set is a set of
   sparse code codebooks that can be used by each base station in a coordinating cluster
   to perform data transmission; and the coordinating cluster is a cluster of base stations
   that provide data transmission for a same terminal, where codebooks that can be used
   by the base stations in the coordinating cluster in data transmission with the terminal
10 are mutually different;
               a transmitter, configured to send a codebook notification to the terminal,
   where the codebook notification is used to notify the terminal of a coordination
   codebook; the coordination codebook is a codebook that is used by a base station in
   the coordinating cluster to perform data transmission with the terminal; and the
15 coordination codebook belongs to a codebook specified in a codebook instruction
   received by the base station in the coordinating cluster; and
               a processor, configured to use the coordination codebook to perform data
   transmission with the terminal.
   [0007]      In a first possible implementation manner of the first aspect, the
20 transmitter is further configured to:
               send a codebook request to the controller, where the codebook request
   carries information about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base
   station, so that the controller allocates, according to the minimum quantity of
   codebooks, the codebook that can be used by the base station in data transmission,
25 where
               the codebook instruction is further used to specify a codebook that can be
   used by the base station to perform data transmission, where a quantity of codebooks
   specified in the codebook instruction is not less than the minimum quantity of
   codebooks.
30 [0008]      With reference to the first aspect or the first possible implementation
   manner of the first aspect, in a second possible implementation manner of the first
   aspect, the processor is further configured to:
               determine, according to a quantity of data flows in data transmission, the
   minimum quantity of codebooks required, where the minimum quantity of codebooks
                                               2

   is not less than the quantity of data flows.
   [0009]       With reference to the first aspect or the first or the second possible
   implementation manner of the first aspect, in a third possible implementation manner
   of the first aspect,
 5              the receiver is further configured to receive the common sparse code
   codebook set sent by the controller; and
                the processor is further configured to determine, from the common sparse
   code codebook set according to the codebook instruction, the codebook that can be
   used by the base station in data transmission.
10 [0010]       With reference to the first aspect or any one of the first to the third possible
   implementation manners of the first aspect, in a fourth possible implementation
   manner of the first aspect, the codebook instruction further includes coordinating
   cluster information; and the processor is further configured to determine, according to
   the coordinating cluster information, a coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook
15 instruction.
   [0011]       With reference to the first aspect or any one of the first to the fourth
   possible implementation manners of the first aspect, in a fifth possible implementation
   manner of the first aspect, the transmitter is further configured to:
                send the common sparse code codebook set to the terminal, so that the
20 terminal receives and saves the common sparse code codebook set, and so that the
   terminal determines, from the common sparse code codebook set according to the
   codebook notification, the coordination codebook for performing data transmission
   with the base station.
   [0012]       According to another aspect, an embodiment of the present invention
25 provides a controller, including:
                a processor, configured to determine a coordinating cluster, where the
   coordinating cluster is a cluster of base stations that provide data transmission for a
   same terminal; and
                a transmitter, configured to send a codebook instruction to each base
30 station in the coordinating cluster, where the codebook instruction is used to specify a
   codebook that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster in data
   transmission with the terminal; the codebooks that can be used by the base stations in
   data transmission belong to a common sparse code codebook set and are mutually
   different; and the common sparse code codebook set is a set of sparse code codebooks
                                                 3

   that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster to perform data
   transmission.
   [0013]      In a first possible implementation manner of the second aspect, the
   controller further includes a receiver, configured to receive a codebook request sent
 5 by each base station in the coordinating cluster, where the codebook request carries
   information about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base station; and
               the processor is further configured to determine, according to the
   information about the minimum quantity of codebooks, a proportion of the minimum
   quantity of codebooks for each base station in the coordinating cluster, and determine,
10 according to the proportion of the minimum quantity of codebooks, a proportion of a
   quantity of codebooks that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster
   in data transmission with the terminal.
   [0014]      With reference to the second aspect or the first possible implementation
   manner of the second aspect, in a second possible implementation manner of the
15 second aspect, the codebook instruction is further used to specify a codebook that can
   be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster in data transmission, where a
   quantity of codebooks specified in the codebook instruction is not less than the
   minimum quantity of codebooks.
   [0015]      With reference to the second aspect, or the first or the second possible
20 implementation manner of the second aspect, in a third possible implementation
   manner of the second aspect, the codebook instruction further includes coordinating
   cluster information, where the coordinating cluster information is used by the base
   station receiving the codebook instruction to determine, according to the coordinating
   cluster information, a coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook instruction.
25 [0016]      With reference to the second aspect or any one of the first to the third
   possible implementation manners of the second aspect, in a fourth possible
   implementation manner of the second aspect, the transmitter is further configured to:
               send the common sparse code codebook set to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster, so that each base station in the coordinating cluster receives and
30 saves the common sparse code codebook set, and so that each base station in the
   coordinating cluster determines, from the common sparse code codebook set
   according to the codebook instruction, a coordination codebook for performing data
   transmission with the terminal, where the coordination codebook is a codebook that is
   used by a base station in the coordinating cluster to perform data transmission with
                                               4

   the terminal.
   [0017]      According to another aspect, an embodiment of the present invention
   provides a terminal, including:
               a receiver, configured to receive a codebook notification sent by at least
 5 one base station in a coordinating cluster, where the codebook notification is used by
   the at least one base station to notify the terminal of a coordination codebook; the
   coordination codebook is a sparse code codebook that is used by the at least one base
   station to perform data transmission with the terminal; and the coordinating cluster is
   a cluster of base stations that provide data transmission for a same terminal, where
10 sparse code codebooks that can be used by the base stations in the coordinating cluster
   in data transmission with the terminal are mutually different; and
               a processor, configured to use the coordination codebook to perform data
   transmission with the at least one base station.
   [0018]      In a first possible implementation manner of the third aspect,
15             the receiver is further configured to receive and save a common sparse
   code codebook set sent by a base station in the coordinating cluster; and
               the processor is further configured to determine, from the common sparse
   code codebook set, the coordination codebook according to the codebook notification.
   [0019]      With reference to the third aspect or the first possible implementation
20 manner of the third aspect, in a second possible implementation manner of the third
   aspect, the processor is further configured to:
               use the coordination codebook to decode at least one received data flow
   sent by the at least one base station.
   [0020]      With reference to the third aspect, or the first or the second possible
25 implementation manner of the third aspect, in a third possible implementation manner
   of the third aspect, if the processor fails in decoding the at least one data flow, the
   terminal further includes:
               a transmitter, configured to send a retransmission request to a base station
   that sends the data flow that fails to be decoded, where the retransmission request is
30 used to request the base station that sends the data flow that fails to be decoded to
   resend the data flow that fails to be decoded.
   [0021]      According to another aspect, an embodiment of the present invention
   provides a data transmission method, including:
               receiving, by a base station, a codebook instruction sent by a controller,
                                                5

   where the codebook instruction is used to specify a codebook that can be used by the
   base station in data transmission with a terminal; the codebook belongs to a common
   sparse code codebook set; the common sparse code codebook set is a set of sparse
   code codebooks that can be used by each base station in a coordinating cluster to
 5 perform data transmission; and the coordinating cluster is a cluster of base stations
   that provide data transmission for a same terminal, where codebooks that can be used
   by the base stations in the coordinating cluster in data transmission with the terminal
   are mutually different;
               sending, by the base station, a codebook notification to the terminal, where
10 the codebook notification is used to notify the terminal of a coordination codebook;
   the coordination codebook is a codebook that is used by a base station in the
   coordinating cluster to perform data transmission with the terminal; and the
   coordination codebook belongs to a codebook specified in a codebook instruction
   received by the base station in the coordinating cluster; and
15             using, by the base station, the coordination codebook to perform data
   transmission with the terminal.
   [0022]      In a first possible implementation manner of the fourth aspect, before the
   receiving, by a base station, the codebook instruction sent by the controller, the
   method further includes:
20             sending a codebook request to the controller, where the codebook request
   carries information about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base
   station, so that the controller allocates, according to the minimum quantity of
   codebooks, the codebook that can be used by the base station in data transmission,
   where
25             the codebook instruction is further used to specify a codebook that can be
   used by the base station to perform data transmission, where a quantity of codebooks
   specified in the codebook instruction is not less than the minimum quantity of
   codebooks.
   [0023]      With reference to the fourth aspect or the first possible implementation
30 manner of the fourth aspect, in a second possible implementation manner of the fourth
   aspect, the base station determines, according to a quantity of data flows in data
   transmission, the minimum quantity of codebooks required, where the minimum
   quantity of codebooks is not less than the quantity of data flows.
   [0024]      With reference to the fourth aspect, or the first or the second possible
                                                6

   implementation manner of the fourth aspect, in a third possible implementation
   manner of the fourth aspect, before the sending, by the base station, the codebook
   notification to the terminal, the method further includes:
                receiving, by the base station, the common sparse code codebook set sent
 5 by the controller; and
                determining, by the base station from the common sparse code codebook
   set according to the codebook instruction, the codebook that can be used by the base
   station in data transmission.
   [0025]       With reference to the fourth aspect or any one of the first to the third
10 possible implementation manners of the fourth aspect, in a fourth possible
   implementation manner of the fourth aspect, the codebook instruction further includes
   coordinating cluster information; and the base station determines, according to the
   coordinating cluster information, a coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook
   instruction.
15 [0026]       With reference to the fourth aspect or any one of the first to the fourth
   possible implementation       manners     of the fourth    aspect,  in a fifth possible
   implementation manner of the fourth aspect, before the sending, by the base station,
   the codebook notification to the terminal, the method further includes:
                sending, by the base station, the common sparse code codebook set to the
20 terminal, so that the terminal receives and saves the common sparse code codebook
   set, and so that the terminal determines, from the common sparse code codebook set
   according to the codebook notification, the coordination codebook for performing
   data transmission with the base station.
   [0027]       According to another aspect, an embodiment of the present invention
25 provides a data transmission method, including:
                determining, by a controller, a coordinating cluster, where the coordinating
   cluster is a cluster of base stations that provide data transmission for a same terminal;
   and
                sending, by the controller, a codebook instruction to each base station in
30 the coordinating cluster, where the codebook instruction is used to specify a codebook
   that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster in data transmission
   with the terminal; the codebooks that can be used by the base stations in data
   transmission belong to a common sparse code codebook set and are mutually different;
   and the common sparse code codebook set is a set of sparse code codebooks that can
                                                 7

   be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster to perform data transmission.
   [0028]      In a first possible implementation manner of the fifth aspect, before the
   sending, by the controller, the codebook instruction to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster, the method further includes:
 5             receiving, by the controller, a codebook request sent by each base station
   in the coordinating cluster, where the codebook request carries information about a
   minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base station;
               determining, by the controller according to the information about the
   minimum quantity of codebooks, a proportion of the minimum quantity of codebooks
10 for each base station in the coordinating cluster; and
               determining, by the controller according to the proportion of the minimum
   quantity of codebooks, a proportion of a quantity of codebooks that can be used by
   each base station in the coordinating cluster in data transmission with the terminal.
   [0029]      With reference to the fifth aspect or the first possible implementation
15 manner of the fifth aspect, in a second possible implementation manner of the fifth
   aspect, the codebook instruction is further used to specify a codebook that can be used
   by each base station in the coordinating cluster in data transmission, where a quantity
   of codebooks specified in the codebook instruction is not less than the minimum
   quantity of codebooks.
20 [0030]      With reference to the fifth aspect, or the first or the second possible
   implementation manner of the fifth aspect, in a third possible implementation manner
   of the fifth aspect, the codebook instruction further includes coordinating cluster
   information, where the coordinating cluster information is used by the base station
   receiving the codebook instruction to determine, according to the coordinating cluster
25 information, a coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook instruction.
   [0031]      With reference to the fifth aspect or any one of the first to the third
   possible implementation manners of the fifth aspect, in a fourth possible
   implementation manner of the fifth aspect, before the sending, by the controller, the
   codebook instruction to each base station in the coordinating cluster, the method
30 further includes:
               sending, by the controller, the common sparse code codebook set to each
   base station in the coordinating cluster, so that each base station in the coordinating
   cluster receives and saves the common sparse code codebook set, and so that each
   base station in the coordinating cluster determines, from the common sparse code
                                                8

   codebook set according to the codebook instruction, a coordination codebook for
   performing data transmission with the terminal, where the coordination codebook is a
   codebook that is used by a base station in the coordinating cluster to perform data
   transmission with the terminal.
 5 [0032]      According to another aspect, an embodiment of the present invention
   provides a data transmission method, including:
               receiving, by a terminal, a codebook notification sent by at least one base
   station in a coordinating cluster, where the codebook notification is used by the at
   least one base station to notify the terminal of a coordination codebook; the
10 coordination codebook is a sparse code codebook that is used by the at least one base
   station to perform data transmission with the terminal; and the coordinating cluster is
   a cluster of base stations that provide data transmission for a same terminal, where
   sparse code codebooks that can be used by the base stations in the coordinating cluster
   in data transmission with the terminal are mutually different; and
15             using, by the terminal, the coordination codebook to perform data
   transmission with the at least one base station.
   [0033]      In a first possible implementation manner of the sixth aspect, before the
   receiving, by a terminal, the codebook notification sent by at least one base station in
   the coordinating cluster, the method further includes:
20             receiving and saving, by the terminal, a common sparse code codebook set
   sent by a base station in the coordinating cluster; and
               determining, by the terminal from the common sparse code codebook set,
   the coordination codebook according to the codebook notification.
   [0034]      With reference to the sixth aspect or the first possible implementation
25 manner of the sixth aspect, in a second possible implementation manner of the sixth
   aspect, the using, by the terminal, the coordination codebook notified in the codebook
   notification to perform data transmission with the at least one base station is
   specifically:
               using, by the terminal, the coordination codebook to decode at least one
30 received data flow sent by the at least one base station.
   [0035]      With reference to the sixth aspect, or the first or the second possible
   implementation manner of the sixth aspect, in a third possible implementation manner
   of the sixth aspect, if the terminal fails in decoding the at least one data flow, the
   method further includes:
                                                9

               sending, by the terminal, a retransmission request to a base station that
   sends the data flow that fails to be decoded, where the retransmission request is used
   to request the base station that sends the data flow that fails to be decoded to resend
   the data flow that fails to be decoded.
 5 [0036]      In the present invention, sparse code codebooks that can be used by a base
   station in a coordinating cluster in data transmission with a terminal are mutually
   different. This implements that base stations separately perform data transmission
   with the terminal without performing data exchange or channel information exchange
   between the base stations, thereby reducing system overheads and improving network
10 transmission efficiency.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   [0037]      To describe the technical solutions in the embodiments of the present
   invention or in the prior art more clearly, the following briefly introduces the
   accompanying drawings required for describing the embodiments or the prior art.
15 Apparently, the accompanying drawings in the following description show some
   embodiments of the present invention, and a person of ordinary skill in the art may
   still derive other drawings from these accompanying drawings without creative
   efforts.
   [0038]      FIG. 1 is a flowchart of a data transmission method according to an
20 embodiment of the present invention;
   [0039]      FIG. 2 is a flowchart of another data transmission method according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
   [0040]      FIG. 3 is a flowchart of another data transmission method according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
25 [0041]      FIG. 4A is a schematic diagram of a data transmission scenario according
   to an embodiment of the present invention;
   [0042]      FIG. 4B is a flowchart of another data transmission method according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
   [0043]      FIG. 4C is a schematic diagram of a method for exchanging information
30 between a controller and a base station according to an embodiment of the present
   invention;
   [0044]      FIG. 4D is a schematic diagram of a method for exchanging information
                                               10

   between a base station and a terminal according to an embodiment of the present
   invention;
   [0045]      FIG. 5A is a schematic diagram of another data transmission scenario
   according to an embodiment of the present invention;
 5 [0046]      FIG. 5B is a flowchart of another data transmission method according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
   [0047]      FIG. 5C is a schematic diagram of another method for exchanging
   information between a controller and a base station according to an embodiment of
   the present invention;
10 [0048]      FIG. 5D is a schematic diagram of another method for exchanging
   information between a controller and a base station according to an embodiment of
   the present invention;
   [0049]      FIG. 5E is a schematic diagram of another method for exchanging
   information between a base station and a terminal according to an embodiment of the
15 present invention;
   [0050]      FIG. 6 is a schematic diagram of a base station according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
   [0051]      FIG. 7A is a schematic diagram of a controller according to an embodiment
   of the present invention;
20 [0052]      FIG. 7B is a schematic diagram of another controller according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
   [0053]      FIG. 8A is a schematic diagram of a terminal according to an embodiment
   of the present invention;
   [0054]      FIG. 8B is a schematic diagram of another terminal according to an
25 embodiment of the present invention;
   [0055]      FIG. 9 is a schematic diagram of another base station according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
   [0056]      FIG. 1OA is a schematic diagram of another controller according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
30 [0057]      FIG. 10B is a schematic diagram of another controller according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
   [0058]      FIG. 11A is a schematic diagram of another terminal according to an
   embodiment of the present invention; and
   [0059]      FIG. 11B is a schematic diagram of another terminal according to an
                                              11

   embodiment of the present invention.
                            DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
   [0060]      To make the objectives, technical solutions, and advantages of the
   embodiments of the present invention clearer, the following clearly and completely
 5 describes the technical solutions in the embodiments of the present invention with
   reference to the accompanying drawings in the embodiments of the present invention.
   Apparently, the described embodiments are some but not all of the embodiments of
   the present invention. All other embodiments obtained by a person of ordinary skill in
   the art based on the embodiments of the present invention without creative efforts
10 shall fall within the protection scope of the present invention.
                                        Embodiment 1
   [0061]      Multiple access refers to a manner in which simultaneous access by
   multiple users is implemented in a specified wireless resource. Common multiple
   access manners include manners such as Time Division Multiple Access (Time
15 Division Multiple Access, TDMA), Frequency Division Multiple Access (Frequency
   Division Multiple Access, FDMA), Code Division Multiple Access (Code Division
   Multiple Access, CDMA), and orthogonal frequency division multiple access
   (Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access, OFDMA).
   [0062]      Sparse code multiple access (Sparse Code Multiple Access, SCMA) is a
20 manner in which low-density sparse code is used for expansion in a specific
   time-frequency domain, and simultaneous access by a large quantity of users is
   implemented in a non-orthogonal manner. The sparse code multiple access enables a
   quantity of connected users to be greater than a quantity of orthogonal resource blocks,
   thereby improving resource block utilization.
25 [0063]      Base station coordinated transmission refers to that multiple base stations
   in separated geographic locations coordinately participate in data transmission for one
   terminal or jointly receiving of data sent by one terminal. In a data transmission
   method of an SCMA system, a sparse code codebook in a common sparse code
   codebook set is used for a terminal to access a base station in a coordinating cluster.
30 [0064]      In an SCMA-based communications system, this embodiment provides a
                                                12

   data transmission method. As shown in FIG. 1, a specific process is as follows:
   [0065]      101: A base station receives a codebook instruction sent by a controller.
   [0066]      The base station provided in this embodiment includes multiple devices
   that include a power amplifier (Power Amplifier, PA), such as, a base station or a
 5 relay (Relay) in various forms and a wireless access point (Access Point, AP) in the
   communications system.
   [0067]      Optionally, when a base station belongs to multiple coordinating clusters at
   the same time, the base station receives a codebook instruction sent by the controller,
   where the codebook instruction includes coordinating cluster information; and the
10 base station determines, according to the coordinating cluster information, a
   coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook instruction. For example, a base
   station 0 belongs to a coordinating cluster 0 and a coordinating cluster 1 at the same
   time. When a controller sends a codebook instruction 0 to the base station, the
   controller further specifies that the codebook instruction 0 is applicable to the
15 coordinating cluster 0. Or when the controller sends a codebook instruction 1 to the
   base station, the controller further specifies that the codebook instruction 1 is
   applicable to the coordinating cluster 1.
   [0068]      After receiving the codebook instruction sent by the controller, the base
   station may determine at least one codebook that can be used to perform data
20 transmission and is in a common sparse code codebook set of the coordinating cluster.
   The codebook instruction may be but is not limited to information carrying a
   codebook in multiple forms, for example, directly carrying the codebook itself or
   carrying a codebook index number, a codebook serial number, or the like. The
   common sparse code codebook set is a set of sparse code codebooks that can be used
25 by each base station in the coordinating cluster to perform data transmission. It should
   be specially noted that codebooks respectively specified by the controller for all base
   stations are mutually different.
   [0069]      In the data transmission method of the SCMA system, the sparse code
   codebook in the common sparse code codebook set is used for the terminal to access
30 the base station in the coordinating cluster. When the base station performs data
   transmission, a codebook in the common sparse code codebook set needs to be used
   to complete access by the terminal and the data transmission.
   [0070]      The SCMA enables the quantity of connected users to be greater than the
   quantity of orthogonal resource blocks. For example, the quantity of orthogonal
                                               13

   resource blocks is 20, however, the quantity of users that can actually be connected is
   30. A non-orthogonal multi-user access manner can greatly increase a quantity of
   connected users in limited wireless resources, thereby improving resource block
   utilization.
 5 [0071]       Optionally, the common sparse code codebook set may be specifically as
   follows:
   [0072]       In the SCMA system, a sparse code access codebook set is a set of all or a
   part of sparse code codebooks that can be used by the base station for access, where
   the sparse code codebooks may be, but are not limited to being, obtained by a
10 computer by means of computation or searching. A method for computing or
   searching for the sparse code codebooks can use a well-known technical means, and
   details are not described herein again.
   [0073]       The common sparse code codebook set may consist of at least one
   codebook that is in the sparse code access codebook set and can be used for base
15 station coordination. That is, the common sparse code codebook set is a non-empty
   subset of the sparse code access codebook set.
   [0074]       Further, optionally, in the SCMA system, technical specifications of each
   base station may be different. That is, a sparse code codebook supported by each base
   station may be different.
20 [0075]       When sparse code access codebook sets supported by base stations, in the
   coordinating cluster, that provide data transmission for a same terminal are different,
   the common sparse code codebook set may consist of a codebook that is in the sparse
   code access codebook set and is supported by each base station in the coordinating
   cluster.
25 [0076]       Optionally, a method for acquiring the common sparse code codebook set
   by the base station may be specifically as follows:
   [0077]       Before receiving the codebook instruction sent by the controller, the base
   station can receive and save a common sparse code codebook set sent by the
   controller.
30 [0078]       Optionally, a method for acquiring the common sparse code codebook set
   by the base station may also be specifically as follows:
   [0079]       In a network planning or network optimization process, an operator
   directly sets and saves an available common sparse code codebook set for direct use
   by the base station. Or in a network operation process, a relevant network control
                                               14

   node, such as a mobility management entity (Mobility Management Entity, MME),
   sets or updates a common sparse code codebook set, and saves the common sparse
   code codebook set for direct use by the base station.
   [0080]       Specially, after the base station acquires the common sparse code
 5 codebook set, if the controller sends only a codebook serial number when sending the
   codebook instruction, the base station may determine, according to the acquired
   common sparse code codebook set and the codebook serial number that is carried in
   the codebook instruction, the codebook that can be used to perform data transmission.
   For example, if the common sparse code codebook set acquired by the base station is
10 SI  =  {C11, C12, ..., C16}, and the codebook instruction may not carry the codebook
   itself but only carry codebook serial numbers 4 and 5, the base station can determine
   that C14 and C15 in SI are codebooks that can be used to perform data transmission.
   [0081]       Optionally, before receiving the codebook instruction sent by the controller,
   the base station may send a codebook request to the controller, where the codebook
15 request carries information about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the
   base station, so that the controller allocates, according to the minimum quantity of
   codebooks, the codebook that can be used by the base station in data transmission.
   [0082]       An actual quantity of data flows that need to be used by each base station
   is different, and a traffic volume burdened by each base station is different. Therefore,
20 in a data transmission process, a minimum quantity of codebooks required by each
   base station is different. The base station may send, to the controller according to an
   actual operation requirement of the base station itself, the codebook request carrying
   the information about the minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base
   station.
25 [0083]       Further, optionally, a method for determining, by the base station, the
   minimum quantity of codebooks required may be specifically as follows:
   [0084]       The base station determines, according to a quantity of data flows in data
   transmission, that the minimum quantity of codebooks is not less than the quantity of
   data flows. For example, when a base station 5 serves a terminal, 2 data flows are
30 required to meet a data transmission requirement of the terminal. Therefore, a
   minimum quantity, of codebooks, reported by the base station 5 is 2. It should be
   noted that the base station may further report, according to an actual requirement, a
   minimum quantity of codebooks greater than a quantity of data flows. For example, it
   can be predicted based on methods such as a traffic volume model that to-be-started
                                                15

   data transmission needs to be carried by an extra data flow.
   [0085]       The controller may obtain, according to an acquired codebook request sent
   by each base station in the coordinating cluster, information about a minimum
   quantity of codebooks required by each base station, allocate a quantity of codebooks
 5 that are in the common sparse code codebook set and can be used by each base station
   in the coordinating cluster in data transmission, and further send the codebook
   instruction to the base station. The codebook instruction is further used to specify a
   codebook that can be used by the base station to perform data transmission, where a
   quantity of codebooks specified in the codebook instruction is not less than the
10 minimum quantity of codebooks.
   [0086]       Upon receiving the codebook instruction sent by the controller, the base
   station may determine the codebook that can be used to perform data transmission.
   [0087]       102: The base station sends a codebook notification to a terminal.
   [0088]       The base station sends the codebook notification to the terminal, so as to
15 notify the terminal of a coordination codebook used for data transmission. The
   codebook notification may be but is not limited to information carrying a codebook in
   multiple forms, for example, directly carrying the codebook itself or carrying a
   codebook index number, a codebook serial number, or the like.
   [0089]       Optionally, the base station may determine a coordination codebook from a
20 codebook included in the saved common sparse code codebook set and specified in
   the codebook instruction. A method for determining the coordination codebook by the
   base station may be a method of random selection, or may also be that the base station
   or the terminal performs matching between the terminal and a codebook according to
   a rule, where the rule may be but is not limited to a channel quality indicator (Channel
25 Quality Indicator, CQI) or the like, and a matching method may use any well-known
   technical means, and details are not described herein again.
   [0090]       Further, optionally, the base station may determine, according to the
   quantity of data flows in data transmission from a codebook specified in the codebook
   instruction, a codebook whose quantity equals to the quantity of data flows as the
30 coordination codebook. The coordination codebook is a codebook used by the base
   station to perform data transmission with the terminal.
   [0091]       Optionally, before sending the codebook notification to the terminal, the
   base station may send the acquired common sparse code codebook set to the terminal,
   so that the terminal receives and saves the common sparse code codebook set, and so
                                               16

   that the terminal determines, from the saved common sparse code codebook set
   according to the codebook notification, the coordination codebook specified in the
   codebook notification for use in data transmission. Specially, after the terminal
   acquires the common sparse code codebook set, if the base station sends only a
 5 codebook serial number when sending the codebook notification, the terminal may
   determine, according to the acquired common sparse code codebook set and the
   codebook serial number that is carried in the codebook notification, the codebook
   used to perform data transmission.
   [0092]      103: The base station uses a coordination codebook to perform data
10 transmission with the terminal.
   [0093]      The base station uses the coordination codebook to perform codebook
   mapping on a data flow that needs to be transmitted, and sends the data flow that has
   undergone the codebook mapping to the terminal, where a codebook mapping method
   may use a well-known technical means, and details are not described herein again.
15 [0094]      In this embodiment, by using an SCMA access manner, non-orthogonal
   multi-user access is implemented by using a sparse code, which greatly improves a
   quantity of connected users in limited wireless resources. A base station can
   separately perform information processing without performing data exchange and
   channel information exchange between base stations, thereby reducing system
20 overheads and improving network transmission efficiency. In addition, according to
   the solution provided in this embodiment, information exchange needs to be
   performed only between a base station and a controller, and does not need to be
   performed between base stations, which greatly reduces data transmission complexity
   and reduces system overheads.
25                                     Embodiment 2
   [0095]      In an SCMA communications system, this embodiment provides a data
   transmission method. As shown in FIG. 2, a specific process is as follows:
   [0096]      201: A controller determines a coordinating cluster.
   [0097]      The coordinating cluster is a cluster of base stations that provide data
30 transmission for a same terminal, and may be combined by using a dynamic,
   semi-dynamic or static method, where a combination method of the coordinating
   cluster may use a well-known technical means, and details are not described herein
                                              17

   again.
   [0098]      202: The controller sends a codebook instruction to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster.
   [0099]      The controller sends the codebook instruction to each base station in the
 5 coordinating cluster, to specify at least one codebook that can be used by each base
   station in the coordinating cluster to perform data transmission and is in a common
   sparse code codebook set of the coordinating cluster. The codebook instruction may
   be but is not limited to information carrying a codebook in multiple forms, for
   example, directly carrying the codebook itself or carrying a codebook index number, a
10 codebook serial number, or the like. The common sparse code codebook set is a set of
   sparse code codebooks that can be used by each base station in the coordinating
   cluster to perform data transmission. It should be specially noted that codebooks
   respectively specified by the controller for all base stations are mutually different.
   [0100]      SCMA enables a quantity of connected users to be greater than a quantity
15 of orthogonal resource blocks, which greatly improves the quantity of connected users
   in limited wireless resources, thereby improving resource block utilization.
   [0101]      Optionally, when a base station belongs to multiple coordinating clusters at
   the same time, the base station receives the codebook instruction sent by the controller,
   where the controller further needs to specify a coordinating cluster applicable to the
20 codebook instruction. For example, a base station 0 belongs to a coordinating cluster
   0 and a coordinating cluster 1 at the same time. When a controller sends a codebook
   instruction 0 to the base station, the controller further needs to specify that the
   codebook instruction 0 is applicable to the coordinating cluster 0. Or when the
   controller sends a codebook instruction 1 to the base station, the controller further
25 needs to specify that the codebook instruction 1 is applicable to the coordinating
   cluster 1.
   [0102]      Optionally, acquiring, by the controller, the common sparse code codebook
   set may be specifically as follows:
   [0103]      In the SCMA system, a sparse code access codebook set is a set of all or a
30 part of sparse code codebooks that can be used by the base station for access, where
   the sparse code codebooks may be, but are not limited to being, obtained by a
   computer by means of computation or searching. A method for computing or
   searching for the sparse code codebooks can use a well-known technical means, and
   details are not described herein again.
                                               18

   [0104]       The controller determines, from the sparse code access codebook set, at
   least one codebook that can be used for base station coordination, so as to form the
   common sparse code codebook set. That is, the common sparse code codebook set is a
   non-empty subset of the sparse code access codebook set.
 5 [0105]       Further, optionally, in the SCMA system, technical specifications of each
   base station may be different. That is, a sparse code access codebook set supported by
   each base station may be different.
   [0106]       When sparse code access codebook sets supported by base stations, in the
   coordinating cluster, that provide data transmission for a same terminal are different,
10 the controller determines, from the sparse code access codebook sets, at least one
   codebook supported by each base station in the coordinating cluster to form the
   common sparse code codebook set.
   [0107]       Optionally, acquiring, by the controller, the common sparse code codebook
   set may further be specifically as follows:
15 [0108]       In a network planning or network optimization process, an operator
   directly sets and saves an available common sparse code codebook set for direct use
   by the controller. Or in a network operation process, a relevant network control node,
   such as an MME, sets or updates a common sparse code codebook set, and saves the
   common sparse code codebook set for direct use by the controller.
20 [0109]       The controller sends a codebook instruction to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster, where the codebook instruction carries a non-empty subset of the
   common sparse code codebook set, the non-empty subset is determined by the
   controller, and the codebook instruction is used to specify at least one codebook that
   can be used by the base station to perform data transmission and is in the common
25 sparse code codebook set. Further, optionally, when specifying the codebook that can
   be used by the base station to perform data transmission, the codebook instruction
   may use a codebook serial number to identify the codebook. When the codebook
   instruction is sent, sending only the codebook serial number instead of the codebook
   itself can further reduce system overheads.
30 [0110]       Optionally, before sending the codebook instruction to each base station in
   the coordinating cluster, the controller may send a common sparse code codebook set
   to each base station in the coordinating cluster, so that the base station receives and
   saves the common sparse code codebook set, and so that the base station determines,
   from the saved common sparse code codebook set, the coordination codebook
                                                19

   specified by the codebook instruction for use in data transmission. Specially, after the
   base station acquires the common sparse code codebook set, if the controller sends
   only a codebook serial number when sending the codebook instruction, the base
   station may determine, according to the acquired common sparse code codebook set
 5 and the codebook serial number that is carried in the codebook instruction, the
   codebook that can be used to perform data transmission.
   [0111]       Optionally, before the controller sends the codebook instruction to each
   base station in the coordinating cluster, the controller may receive a codebook request
   sent by each base station in the coordinating cluster, where the codebook request
10 carries information about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base
   station.
   [0112]       An actual quantity of data flows that need to be used by each base station
   is different, and a traffic volume burdened by each base station is different. Therefore,
   in a data transmission process, a minimum quantity of codebooks required by each
15 base station is different. The base station may send, to the controller according to an
   actual operation requirement of the base station itself, the codebook request carrying
   the information about the minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base
   station. After receiving the codebook request, the controller can obtain the
   information about the minimum quantity of codebooks required by each base station
20 in the coordinating cluster.
   [0113]       Further, optionally, after the controller receives the codebook request, a
   method for specifying the codebook that can be used by the base station to perform
   data transmission may be specifically as follows:
   [0114]       The controller may acquire, according to the received codebook request
25 sent by each base station in the coordinating cluster, the information about the
   minimum quantity of codebooks required by each base station, and allocate,
   according to a proportion of the minimum quantity of codebooks required by each
   base station, a quantity of codebooks that can be used by each base station in the
   coordinating cluster in data transmission and are in the common sparse code
30 codebook set. For example, if a quantity of codebooks in the common sparse code
   codebook set is 6, a minimum quantity, of codebooks, reported by a base station 1 in
   the coordinating cluster is 2, and a minimum quantity, of codebooks, reported by a
   base station 2 is 1, the controller can allocate 4 codebooks to the base station 1, and
   allocate 2 codebooks to the base station 2.
                                                20

   [0115]      Specially, the controller may properly adjust, according to a specific
   situation, a codebook allocation manner. For example, when a quantity of codebooks,
   in the common sparse code codebook set, allocated according to a proportion is a
   non-integer, a quantity of codebooks allocated to each base station in a coordinating
 5 cluster may be determined by using methods including but not limited to round off or
   rounded-down or the like. For example, if the quantity of codebooks in the common
   sparse code codebook set is 8, a minimum quantity, of codebooks, reported by a base
   station 3 in the coordinating cluster is 2, a minimum quantity, of codebooks, reported
   by a base station 4 in the coordinating cluster is 1, and according to a proportion,
10 quantities of codebooks allocated to the base station 3 and the base station 4 are
   respectively 5.33 and 2.66, the controller may allocate, according to the round off
   method, 5 codebooks to the base station 3 and allocate 3 codebooks to the base station
   4, or may allocate, according to the rounded-down method, 5 codebooks to the base
   station 3 and allocate 2 codebooks to the base station 4.
15 [0116]      After completing the allocation of the quantity of codebooks, the controller
   specifies a codebook that can be used by the base station to perform data transmission,
   where a quantity of codebooks specified in the codebook instruction is not less than
   the minimum quantity of codebooks, and the controller sends the codebook
   instruction to notify the base station.
20 [0117]      In this embodiment, by using an SCMA access manner, non-orthogonal
   multi-user access is implemented by using a sparse code, which greatly improves a
   quantity of connected users in limited wireless resources. A base station can
   separately perform information processing without performing data exchange and
   channel information exchange between base stations, thereby reducing system
25 overheads and improving network transmission efficiency. In addition, according to
   the method provided in this embodiment, information exchange overheads required
   between the controller and the base station are extremely limited. At a minimum, the
   controller only needs to send, to the base station, a sparse code codebook that is used
   to perform data transmission, which has extremely small impact on a backhaul
30 system.
                                         Embodiment 3
   [0118]      In an SCMA communications system, this embodiment provides a data
                                                21

   transmission method. As shown in FIG. 3, a specific process is as follows:
   [0119]       301: A terminal receives a codebook notification sent by a base station in a
   coordinating cluster.
   [0120]       After determining a coordination codebook used to perform               data
 5 transmission with the terminal, the base station sends the codebook notification,
   where the codebook notification is used by the base station to notify the terminal of
   the coordination codebook. The codebook notification may be but is not limited to
   information carrying a codebook in multiple forms, for example, directly carrying the
   codebook itself or carrying a codebook index number, a codebook serial number, or
10 the like. It should be specially noted that coordination codebooks of base stations in
   the coordinating cluster are mutually different.
   [0121]       After receiving the codebook notification, the terminal may determine a
   codebook that can be used in a data transmission process.
   [0122]       In the data transmission method of the SCMA system, a sparse code
15 codebook in a common sparse code codebook set is used for the terminal to access the
   base station in the coordinating cluster. When the terminal performs data transmission,
   a codebook in the common sparse code codebook set needs to be used to complete
   access by the terminal and the data transmission.
   [0123]       SCMA enables a quantity of connected users to be greater than a quantity
20 of orthogonal resource blocks, which greatly improves the quantity of connected users
   in limited wireless resources, thereby improving resource block utilization.
   [0124]       Optionally, a method for acquiring the common sparse code codebook set
   by the terminal may be specifically as follows:
   [0125]       Before receiving the codebook notification sent by the base station in the
25 coordinating cluster, the terminal may receive and save a common sparse code
   codebook set sent by the base station in the coordinating cluster. Further, optionally,
   because there is no information exchange between base stations in the coordinating
   cluster, when performing data transmission, each base station in the coordinating
   cluster may send a common sparse code codebook set to the terminal.
30 [0126]       Optionally, a method for acquiring the common sparse code codebook set
   by the terminal may also be specifically as follows:
   [0127]       In a terminal manufacturing process, a manufacturer or the like sets the
   common sparse code codebook set, and saves the common sparse code codebook set
   for direct use by the terminal. Or in a network operation process, a relevant network
                                              22

   control node sets or updates the common sparse code codebook set, and saves the
   common sparse code codebook set for direct use by the terminal.
   [0128]       Specially, after the terminal acquires the common sparse code codebook
   set, if the base station sends only a codebook serial number when sending the
 5 codebook instruction, the terminal may determine, according to the acquired common
   sparse code codebook set and the codebook serial number that is carried in the
   codebook instruction, the codebook that can be used to perform data transmission.
   [0129]       302: The terminal uses a coordination codebook notified in the codebook
   notification to perform data transmission with the base station.
10 [0130]       The terminal may acquire the coordination codebook from the codebook
   notification. When receiving data flows sent by base stations in the coordinating
   cluster, the terminal uses the coordination codebook to decode at least one received
   data flow.
   [0131]       Optionally, a method for decoding at least one received data flow by the
15 terminal by using the coordination codebook may be specifically as follows:
   [0132]       The terminal uses the coordination codebook to decode at least one
   received data flow sent by base stations in the coordinating cluster. Optionally, if a
   base station 6 and a base station 7 respectively send a data flow 6 and a data flow 7 to
   the terminal, the method for decoding by the terminal may be joint decoding, so as to
20 respectively obtain the data flow 6 and the data flow 7 by means of decoding, where
   the joint decoding method is a well-known technical means, and details are not
   described herein again.
   [0133]       Further, optionally, if the terminal fails in decoding the at least one data
   flow, the terminal sends a retransmission request to the base station that sends the data
25 flow that fails to be decoded, where the retransmission request is used to request the
   base station that sends the data flow that fails to be decoded to resend the data flow
   that fails to be decoded. A retransmission method may be but is not limited to using
   the prior art such as an automatic repeat request (Automatic Repeat Request, ARQ)
   and a hybrid automatic repeat request (Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request, HARQ),
30 and details are not described herein again.
   [0134]       In this embodiment, by using an SCMA access manner, a base station can
   separately perform information processing without performing data exchange and
   channel information exchange between base stations, thereby reducing system
   overheads, and improving network transmission efficiency. In addition, because the
                                                23

   terminal can separately receive and process different data flows sent by different base
   stations, and separately perform a retransmission operation on a data flow, complexity
   of a network data transmission process is greatly reduced and network transmission
   efficiency is improved.
 5                                      Embodiment 4
   [0135]      In a scenario provided in this embodiment, base stations controlled and
   managed by a controller Controller4 include BS41 and BS42; a terminal UE4 is
   located in a common coverage area of BS41 and BS42, and requests BS41 and BS42
   to perform data transmission, as shown in FIG. 4A. Controller4 determines that BS41
10 and BS42 form a coordinating cluster to provide a data transmission service for UE4.
   This embodiment provides a data transmission method. As shown in FIG. 4B, a
   specific process is as follows:
   [0136]      401: A controller determines a coordinating cluster.
   [0137]      Controller4 determines that BS41 and BS42 form a coordinating cluster to
15 perform data transmission for UE4.
   [0138]      402: The controller sends a codebook instruction to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster.
   [0139]      In this embodiment, a common sparse code codebook set of the
   coordinating cluster is S4   =  {C41, C42, ... , C46}. That is, the common sparse code
20 codebook set has 6 codebooks in total, which can be used by BS41 and BS42 to
   perform data transmission.
   [0140]      Controller4 respectively sends codebook instructions 141 and 142 to BS41
   and BS42 in the coordinating cluster. As shown in FIG. 4C, 141 and 142 respectively
   carry non-empty subsets S41 and S42 of the common sparse code codebook set, and
25 the non-empty subsets are determined by the controller, where S41     = {C41, C42} and
   S42  =  {C43, C44, C45, C46}, and 141 and 142 are used to specify a codebook that can
   be used by BS41 and BS42 to perform data transmission.
   [0141]      403: A base station receives the codebook instruction sent by the
   controller.
30 [0142]      After BS41 and BS42 in the coordinating cluster respectively receive the
   codebook instructions 141 and 142, the codebook that can be used in a data
   transmission process may be determined.
                                              24

   [0143]       404: The base station sends a codebook notification to a terminal.
   [0144]       As shown in 4D, BS41 sends a codebook notification N41 to UE4 to notify
   UE4 that a codebook C42 needs to be used to access BS41; BS42 sends a codebook
   notification N42 to UE4 to notify UE4 that C44 and C45 need to be used to access
 5 BS42.
   [0145]       405: The terminal receives the codebook notification sent by the base
   station in the coordinating cluster.
   [0146]       After receiving the codebook notifications N41 and N42 respectively sent
   by BS41 and BS42, UE4 may determine the codebook that can be used in the data
10 transmission process. That is, UE4 uses C42 to perform data transmission with BS41,
   and uses C44 and C45 to perform data transmission with BS42.
   [0147]       406: The base station and the terminal use a coordination codebook to
   perform data transmission.
   [0148]       After BS41 sends a data flow D41 to UE4 and uses C42 to perform
15 codebook mapping on D41, and after BS42 sends data flows D42 and D43 to UE4
   and respectively uses C44 and C45 to perform codebook mapping on D42 and D43,
   an actual data flow sent by BS41 is D41 *C42, and actual data flows sent by BS42 are
   D42*C44+D43*C45, where an operation symbol * is a self-defined operation symbol,
   and Z=X*Y represents an operation result obtained by performing, according to a
20 codebook Y, codebook mapping on a data flow X.
   [0149]       UE4 uses C42, C44, and C45 to perform joint decoding on received data
   flows, and respectively obtains D41, D42, and D43 by means of decoding.
                                        Embodiment 5
   [0150]       In a scenario provided in this embodiment, base stations controlled and
25 managed by a controller Controller5 include BS51, BS52, BS53, and the like; a
   terminal UE5 is located in a common coverage area of BS51, BS52, and BS53, as
   shown in FIG. 5A. Controller determines, according to a data transmission request
   sent by UE5 and a method for forming a coordinating cluster, that BS5 1, BS52, and
   BS53 form a coordinating cluster to provide data transmission for UE5. This
30 embodiment provides a data transmission method. As shown in FIG. 5B, a specific
   process is as follows:
   [0151]       501: A controller determines a coordinating cluster.
                                               25

   [0152]      Controller5 determines that BS51, BS52, and BS53 form a coordinating
   cluster 51 to perform data transmission for UE5.
   [0153]      BS51 further belongs to another coordinating cluster 52.
   [0154]      502: The controller determines, from a sparse code access codebook set, at
 5 least one codebook that can be used for base station coordination to form a common
   sparse code codebook set.
   [0155]      In an SCMA system provided in this embodiment, a sparse code access
   codebook set that can be used by all base stations is S5 = {C51, C52, ..., C58}. Sparse
   code access codebook sets that may be acquired by Controller5 and can be used by
10 BS51, BS52, and BS53 are respectively S51 = {C51, C52, ... , C58}, S52 = {C51,
   C52, ... , C57} and S53     =  {C52, C53, ... , C58}, and Controller5 may reserve a
   codebook C57 as a reserved codebook for other use. Therefore, Controller5
   determines that a common sparse code codebook set of the coordinating cluster 51 is
   S5'= {C52, C53, ... , C56}.
15 [0156]      503: The controller sends the common sparse code codebook set to each
   base station in the coordinating cluster.
   [0157]      Controller5 separately sends the common sparse code codebook set S5'=
    {C52, C53, ... , C56} to BS51, BS52, and BS53.
   [0158]      504: The base station receives and saves the common sparse code
20 codebook set sent by the controller.
   [0159]      BS51, BS52, and BS53 receive and save the common sparse code
   codebook set S5'= {C52, C53, ... , C56} sent by Controller5.
   [0160]      505: The base station sends a codebook request to the controller.
   [0161]      BS51,    BS52,  and BS53      separately determine information about a
25 minimum quantity of codebooks required by each base station.
   [0162]      BS51 and BS53 determine that the quantities of codebooks required are
   both 1. BS52 determines that the quantity of codebooks required is 2.
   [0163]      As shown in FIG. 5C, BS51, BS52, and BS53 respectively send codebook
   requests Q51, Q52, and Q53 to Controller5, where Q51, Q52, and Q53 separately
30 carry the information about the minimum quantity of codebooks required by each
   base station.
   [0164]      506: The controller receives the codebook request sent by each base station
   in the coordinating cluster, and determines, according to the information about the
   minimum quantity of codebooks, a proportion of the minimum quantity of codebooks
                                               26

   of the base station in the coordinating cluster.
   [0165]      Controller5 may obtain, according to Q51, Q52, and Q53 acquired by
   Controller and respectively sent by BS51, BS52, and BS53, that the minimum
   quantities of codebooks respectively required by BS51, BS52, and BS53 are
 5 respectively 1, 2, and 1, and allocate, according to a proportion of the minimum
   quantities of codebooks respectively required by BS5 1, BS52, and BS53, quantities of
   codebooks that can respectively be used by BS51, BS52, and BS53 to perform data
   transmission and are in the common sparse code codebook set S5'= {C52, C53,
   C56}.
10 [0166]      A quantity of codebooks in the common sparse code codebook set S5'=
   {C52, C53,         C56} is 5. Controller determines, according to a rounded-down
   method, the quantity of codebooks to be allocated to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster 51, that is, respectively allocates 1 codebook, 2 codebooks, and 1
   codebook to BS51, BS52, and BS53. Specifically, S51'= {C52}, S52'         = {C53, C54},
15 and S53'= {C55} are specified in a sequence to specify codebooks that can
   respectively be used by BS5 1, BS52, and BS53 to perform data transmission.
   [0167]      507: The controller sends a codebook instruction to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster.
   [0168]      Controller5 respectively sends codebook instructions 151, 152, and 153 to
20 BS51, BS52, and BS53 in the coordinating cluster 51. As shown in FIG. 5D, I51, 152,
   and 153 respectively carry non-empty subsets S51'= {C52}, S52'       =  {C53, C54}, and
   S53'= {C55}, of the common sparse code codebook set, determined by the controller,
   and are used to specify the codebooks that can respectively be used by BS51, BS52,
   and BS53 to perform data transmission.
25 [0169]      In addition, Controller5 further needs to specify, by using coordinating
   cluster information, 151 as a codebook instruction used by BS51 to perform data
   transmission in the coordinating cluster 51.
   [0170]      508: The base station determines a coordination codebook from a
   codebook specified in the codebook instruction.
30 [0171]      BS51 and BS53 determine, respectively from S51'= {C52} and S53'=
    {C55}, C52 and C55 as coordination codebooks, and BS52 determines, from S52'          =
    {C53, C54}, C54 as a coordination codebook, where the coordination codebooks are
   used to perform data transmission with UE5 in a data transmission process.
   [0172]      That BS52 determines, from S52'       =  {C53, C54}, C54 as a coordination
                                                27

   codebook may be implemented by using any well-known technical means. For
   example, BS52 determines, according to CQI information fed back by UE5, C54 that
   enables the greatest channel gain of UE5 as the coordination codebook.
   [0173]       509: The base station sends the common sparse code codebook set to a
 5 terminal.
   [0174]       BS51, BS52, and BS53 all send the common sparse code codebook set
   S5'= {C52, C53, ... , C56} of the coordinating cluster 51 to UE5. Because base
   stations in the coordinating cluster, namely, BS51, BS52, and BS53 have no
   information exchange with each other, and data sending processes are mutually
10 independent, BS51, BS52, and BS53 may separately send the common sparse code
   codebook set S5' to UE5.
   [0175]       510: The base station sends a codebook notification to the terminal.
   [0176]       As shown in FIG. 5E, BS51, BS52, and BS53 respectively send codebook
   notifications N5 1, N52, and N53 to UE5, so as to notify UE5 that UE5 needs to use
15 the codebook C52 to access BS51, use C54 to access BS52, and use C55 to access
   BS53.
   [0177]       511: The terminal receives the codebook notification sent by the base
   station in the coordinating cluster.
   [0178]       After  receiving   the  codebook    notifications  N51,   N52,   and N53
20 respectively sent by BS51, BS52, and BS53, UE5 may determine a codebook that can
   be used in a data transmission process. That is, UE5 uses C52 to perform data
   transmission with BS5 1, uses C54 to perform data transmission with BS52, and uses
   C55 to perform data transmission with BS53.
   [0179]       512: The base station and the terminal use the coordination codebook to
25 perform data transmission.
   [0180]       If BS51 sends a data flow D51 to UE5 and uses C52 to perform codebook
   mapping on D51, BS52 sends a data flow D52 to UE5 and uses C54 to perform
   codebook mapping on D52, and BS53 sends a data flow D53 to UE5 and uses C55 to
   perform codebook mapping on D53, an actual data flow sent by BS51 is D51*C52, an
30 actual data flow sent by BS52 is D52*C54, and an actual data flow sent by BS53 is
   D53*C55, where an operation symbol * is a self-defined operation symbol, and
   Z=X*Y represents an operation result obtained by performing, according to a
   codebook Y, codebook mapping on a data flow X.
   [0181]       UE5 uses C52, C54, and C55 to perform joint decoding on received data
                                               28

   flows, and respectively obtains D51, D52, and D53 by means of decoding.
   [0182]      If the terminal fails in decoding D52, the terminal sends a retransmission
   request to BS52 that sends D52. After receiving the retransmission request sent by
   UE5, BS52 resends D52 to UE5.
 5                                       Embodiment 6
   [0183]      This embodiment provides a base station 60. The base station 60 may be a
   base station in various forms in a communications system, such as a macro base
   station, a home base station, or a small cell. As shown in FIG. 6, the base station 60
   specifically includes:
10             a receiver 601, configured to receive a codebook instruction sent by a
   controller, where the codebook instruction is used to specify a codebook that can be
   used by the base station in data transmission with a terminal; the codebook belongs to
   a common sparse code codebook set; the common sparse code codebook set is a set of
   sparse code codebooks that can be used by each base station in a coordinating cluster
15 to perform data transmission; and the coordinating cluster is a cluster of base stations
   that provide data transmission for a same terminal, where codebooks that can be used
   by the base stations in the coordinating cluster in data transmission with the terminal
   are mutually different;
               a transmitter 602, configured to send a codebook notification to the
20 terminal, where the codebook notification is used to notify the terminal of a
   coordination codebook; the coordination codebook is a codebook that is used by a
   base station in the coordinating cluster to perform data transmission with the terminal;
   and the coordination codebook belongs to a codebook specified in a codebook
   instruction received by the base station in the coordinating cluster; and
25             a processor 603, configured to use the coordination codebook to perform
   data transmission with the terminal.
   [0184]      Optionally, in a specific base station device, the receiver and the
   transmitter may be in independent forms and exist separately, or may be integrated in
   a transceiver to bear functions both of the receiver and the transmitter at the same
30 time, which is not limited in this embodiment of the present invention.
   [0185]      In a specific description of the base station 60 shown in FIG. 6, the
   receiver 601 may be further configured to:
                                               29

                receive a common sparse code codebook set sent by the controller.
   [0186]       In a specific description of the base station 60 shown in FIG. 6, the
   transmitter 602 may be further configured to:
                send a codebook request to the controller, where the codebook request
 5 carries information about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base
   station, so that the controller allocates, according to the minimum quantity of
   codebooks, the codebook that can be used by the base station in data transmission,
   where the codebook instruction is further used to specify a codebook that can be used
   by the base station to perform data transmission, and a quantity of codebooks
10 specified in the codebook instruction is not less than the minimum quantity of
   codebooks.
   [0187]       In a specific description of the base station 60 shown in FIG. 6, the
   transmitter 602 may be further configured to:
                send the common sparse code codebook set to the terminal, so that the
15 terminal receives and saves the common sparse code codebook set, and so that the
   terminal determines, from the common sparse code codebook set according to the
   codebook notification, the coordination codebook for performing data transmission
   with the base station.
   [0188]       In a specific description of the base station 60 shown in FIG. 6, the
20 processor 603 may be further configured to:
                determine, according to a quantity of data flows in data transmission, the
   minimum quantity of codebooks required, where the minimum quantity of codebooks
   is not less than the quantity of data flows.
   [0189]       In a specific description of the base station 60 shown in FIG. 6, the
25 processor 603 may be further configured to:
                determine, from the common sparse code codebook set according to the
   codebook instruction, the codebook that can be used by the base station in data
   transmission.
   [0190]       In a specific description of the base station 60 shown in FIG. 6, the
30 codebook instruction further includes coordinating cluster information, and the
   processor 603 may be further configured to:
                determine,   according     to  the  coordinating cluster   information,  a
   coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook instruction.
                                                 30

                                          Embodiment 7
   [0191]       This embodiment provides a controller 70. The controller 70 may be in an
   independent form, or may be integrated in another control node of a communications
   system. As shown in FIG. 7A, the controller 70 specifically includes:
 5              a processor 701, configured to determine a coordinating cluster, where the
   coordinating cluster is a cluster of base stations that provide data transmission for a
   same terminal; and
                a transmitter 702, configured to send a codebook instruction to each base
   station in the coordinating cluster, where the codebook instruction is used to specify a
10 codebook that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster in data
   transmission with the terminal; the codebooks that can be used by the base stations in
   data transmission belong to a common sparse code codebook set and are mutually
   different; and the common sparse code codebook set is a set of sparse code codebooks
   that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster to perform data
15 transmission.
   [0192]       In a specific description of the controller 70 shown in FIG. 7A, as shown in
   FIG. 7B, an optional solution of the controller 70 may further include:
                a receiver 703, configured to receive a codebook request sent by each base
   station in the coordinating cluster, where the codebook request carries information
20 about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base station.
   [0193]       Optionally, in a specific controller device, the receiver and the transmitter
   may be in independent forms and exist separately, or may be integrated in a
   transceiver to bear functions both of the receiver and the transmitter at the same time,
   which is not limited in this embodiment of the present invention.
25 [0194]       In a specific description of the controller 70 shown in FIG. 7B, the receiver
   703 may be further configured to:
                receive a codebook request sent by each base station in the coordinating
   cluster, where the codebook request carries information about a minimum quantity of
   codebooks required by the base station, where the codebook instruction is further used
30 to specify a codebook that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster
   in data transmission, and a quantity of codebooks specified in the codebook
   instruction is not less than the minimum quantity of codebooks.
   [0195]       In a specific description of the controller 70 shown in FIG. 7B, the
                                                 31

   processor 701 may be further configured to:
                determine, according to the information about the minimum quantity of
   codebooks, a proportion of the minimum quantity of codebooks for each base station
   in the coordinating cluster, and determine, according to the proportion of the
 5 minimum quantity of codebooks, a proportion of a quantity of codebooks that can be
   used by each base station in the coordinating cluster in data transmission with the
   terminal.
   [0196]       In a specific description of the controller 70 shown in FIG. 7A or FIG. 7B,
   the codebook instruction sent by the transmitter 702 to each base station in the
10 coordinating cluster further includes coordinating cluster information, where the
   coordinating cluster information is used by the base station receiving the codebook
   instruction to determine, according to the coordinating cluster information, a
   coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook instruction.
   [0197]       In a specific description of the controller 70 shown in FIG. 7A or FIG. 7B,
15 the transmitter 702 may be further configured to:
                send the common sparse code codebook set to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster, so that each base station in the coordinating cluster receives and
   saves the common sparse code codebook set, and so that each base station in the
   coordinating cluster determines, from the common sparse code codebook set
20 according to the codebook instruction, a coordination codebook for performing data
   transmission with the terminal, where the coordination codebook is a codebook that is
   used by a base station in the coordinating cluster to perform data transmission with
   the terminal.
                                         Embodiment 8
25 [0198]       This embodiment provides a terminal 80. As shown in FIG. 8A, the
   terminal 80 specifically includes:
                a receiver 801, configured to receive a codebook notification sent by at
   least one base station in a coordinating cluster, where the codebook notification is
   used by the at least one base station to notify the terminal of a coordination codebook;
30 the coordination codebook is a sparse code codebook that is used by the at least one
   base station to perform data transmission with the terminal; and the coordinating
   cluster is a cluster of base stations that provide data transmission for a same terminal,
                                                 32

   where sparse code codebooks that can be used by the base stations in the coordinating
   cluster in data transmission with the terminal are mutually different; and
                a processor 802, configured to use the coordination codebook to perform
   data transmission with the at least one base station.
 5 [0199]       In a specific description of the terminal 80 shown in FIG. 8A, the receiver
   801 may be further configured to:
                receive and save a common sparse code codebook set sent by a base
   station in the coordinating cluster.
   [0200]       In a specific description of the terminal 80 shown in FIG. 8A, the processor
10 802 may be further configured to:
                determine, from the common sparse code codebook set, the coordination
   codebook according to the codebook notification.
   [0201]       In a specific description of the terminal 80 shown in FIG. 8A, the processor
   802 may be further configured to:
15              acquire the coordination codebook from the codebook notification, and use
   the coordination codebook to decode at least one received data flow sent by the at
   least one base station.
   [0202]       In a specific description of the terminal 80 shown in FIG. 8A, as shown in
   FIG. 8B, an optional solution of the terminal 80 may further include:
20              a transmitter 803, configured to send a retransmission request to a base
   station that sends the data flow that fails to be decoded, where the retransmission
   request is used to request the base station that sends the data flow that fails to be
   decoded to resend the data flow that fails to be decoded.
   [0203]       Optionally, in a specific terminal, the receiver and the transmitter may be
25 in independent forms and exist separately, or may be integrated in a transceiver to
   bear functions both of the receiver and the transmitter at the same time, which is not
   limited in this embodiment of the present invention.
                                          Embodiment 9
   [0204]       This embodiment provides a base station 90. The base station 90 may be a
30 base station in various forms in a communications system, such as a macro base
   station, a home base station, or a small cell. As shown in FIG. 9, the base station 90
   specifically includes:
                                                 33

               a receiving unit 901, configured to receive a codebook instruction sent by
   a controller, where the codebook instruction is used to specify a codebook that can be
   used by the base station in data transmission with a terminal; the codebook belongs to
   a common sparse code codebook set; the common sparse code codebook set is a set of
 5 sparse code codebooks that can be used by each base station in a coordinating cluster
   to perform data transmission; and the coordinating cluster is a cluster of base stations
   that provide data transmission for a same terminal, where codebooks that can be used
   by the base stations in the coordinating cluster in data transmission with the terminal
   are mutually different;
10             a transmitting unit 902, configured to send a codebook notification to the
   terminal, where the codebook notification is used to notify the terminal of a
   coordination codebook; the coordination codebook is a codebook that is used by a
   base station in the coordinating cluster to perform data transmission with the terminal;
   and the coordination codebook belongs to a codebook specified in a codebook
15 instruction received by the base station in the coordinating cluster; and
               a processing unit 903, configured to use the coordination codebook to
   perform data transmission with the terminal.
   [0205]      Optionally, in a specific base station device, the receiving unit and the
   transmitting unit may be in independent forms and exist separately, or may be
20 integrated in a transceiver unit to bear functions both of the receiving unit and the
   transmitting unit at the same time, which is not limited in this embodiment of the
   present invention.
   [0206]      In a specific description of the base station 90 shown in FIG. 9, the
   receiving unit 901 may be further configured to:
25             receive a common sparse code codebook set sent by the controller.
   [0207]      In a specific description of the base station 90 shown in FIG. 9, the
   transmitting unit 902 may be further configured to:
               send a codebook request to the controller, where the codebook request
   carries information about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base
30 station, so that the controller allocates, according to the minimum quantity of
   codebooks, the codebook that can be used by the base station in data transmission,
   where the codebook instruction is further used to specify a codebook that can be used
   by the base station to perform data transmission, and a quantity of codebooks
   specified in the codebook instruction is not less than the minimum quantity of
                                                34

   codebooks.
   [0208]       In a specific description of the base station 90 shown in FIG. 9, the
   transmitting unit 902 may be further configured to:
                send the common sparse code codebook set to the terminal, so that the
 5 terminal receives and saves the common sparse code codebook set, and so that the
   terminal determines, from the common sparse code codebook set according to the
   codebook notification, the coordination codebook for performing data transmission
   with the base station.
   [0209]       In a specific description of the base station 90 shown in FIG. 9, the
10 processing unit 903 may be further configured to:
                determine, according to a quantity of data flows in data transmission, the
   minimum quantity of codebooks required, where the minimum quantity of codebooks
   is not less than the quantity of data flows.
   [0210]       In a specific description of the base station 90 shown in FIG. 9, the
15 processing unit 903 may be further configured to:
                determine, from the common sparse code codebook set according to the
   codebook instruction, the codebook that can be used by the base station in data
   transmission.
   [0211]       In a specific description of the base station 90 shown in FIG. 9, the
20 codebook instruction further includes coordinating cluster information, and the
   processing unit 903 may be further configured to:
                determine,    according    to  the  coordinating  cluster  information,   a
   coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook instruction.
                                        Embodiment 10
25 [0212]       This embodiment provides a controller 100. The controller 100 may be in
   an independent form, or may be integrated in another control node in a
   communications system. As shown in FIG. 10A, the controller 100 specifically
   includes:
                a processing unit 1001, configured to determine a coordinating cluster,
30 where the coordinating cluster is a cluster of base stations that provide data
   transmission for a same terminal; and
                a transmitting unit 1002, configured to send a codebook instruction to each
                                                 35

   base station in the coordinating cluster, where the codebook instruction is used to
   specify a codebook that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster in
   data transmission with the terminal; the codebooks that can be used by the base
   stations in data transmission belong to a common sparse code codebook set and are
 5 mutually different; and the common sparse code codebook set is a set of sparse code
   codebooks that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster to perform
   data transmission.
   [0213]      In a specific description of the controller 100 shown in FIG. 10A, as shown
   in FIG. 10B, an optional solution of the controller 100 may further include:
10             a receiving unit 1003, configured to receive a codebook request sent by
   each base station in the coordinating cluster, where the codebook request carries
   information about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base station.
   [0214]      Optionally, in a specific controller device, the receiving unit and the
   transmitting unit may be in independent forms and exist separately, or may be
15 integrated in a transceiver unit to bear functions both of the receiving unit and the
   transmitting unit at the same time, which is not limited in this embodiment of the
   present invention.
   [0215]      In a specific description of the controller 100 shown in FIG. 10B, the
   receiving unit 1003 may be further configured to:
20             receive a codebook request sent by each base station in the coordinating
   cluster, where the codebook request carries information about a minimum quantity of
   codebooks required by the base station, where the codebook instruction is further used
   to specify a codebook that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster
   in data transmission, and a quantity of codebooks specified in the codebook
25 instruction is not less than the minimum quantity of codebooks.
   [0216]      In a specific description of the controller 100 shown in FIG. 10B, the
   processing unit 1001 may be further configured to:
               determine, according to the information about the minimum quantity of
   codebooks, a proportion of the minimum quantity of codebooks for each base station
30 in the coordinating cluster, and determine, according to the proportion of the
   minimum quantity of codebooks, a proportion of a quantity of codebooks that can be
   used by each base station in the coordinating cluster in data transmission with the
   terminal.
   [0217]      In a specific description of the controller 100 shown in FIG. 10A or FIG.
                                                36

   1OB, the codebook instruction sent by the transmitting unit 1002 to each base station
   in the coordinating cluster further includes coordinating cluster information, where
   the coordinating cluster information is used by the base station receiving the
   codebook instruction to determine, according to the coordinating cluster information,
 5 a coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook instruction.
   [0218]      In a specific description of the controller 100 shown in FIG. 10A or FIG.
   1OB, the transmitting unit 1002 may be further configured to:
               send the common sparse code codebook set to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster, so that each base station in the coordinating cluster receives and
10 saves the common sparse code codebook set, and so that each base station in the
   coordinating cluster determines, from the common sparse code codebook set
   according to the codebook instruction, a coordination codebook for performing data
   transmission with the terminal, where the coordination codebook is a codebook that is
   used by a base station in the coordinating cluster to perform data transmission with
15 the terminal.
                                       Embodiment 11
   [0219]      This embodiment provides a terminal 110. As shown in FIG. 11A, the
   terminal 110 specifically includes:
               a receiving unit 1101, configured to receive a codebook notification sent
20 by at least one base station in a coordinating cluster, where the codebook notification
   is used by the at least one base station to notify the terminal of a coordination
   codebook; the coordination codebook is a sparse code codebook that is used by the at
   least one base station to perform data transmission with the terminal; and the
   coordinating cluster is a cluster of base stations that provide data transmission for a
25 same terminal, where sparse code codebooks that can be used by the base stations in
   the coordinating cluster in data transmission with the terminal are mutually different;
   and
               a processing unit 1102, configured to use the coordination codebook to
   perform data transmission with the at least one base station.
30 [0220]      In a specific description of the terminal 110 shown in FIG. 11A, the
   receiving unit 1101 may be further configured to:
               receive and save a common sparse code codebook set sent by a base
                                               37

   station in the coordinating cluster.
   [0221]       In a specific description of the terminal 110 shown in FIG. 11A, the
   processing unit 1102 may be further configured to:
                determine, from the common sparse code codebook set, the coordination
 5 codebook according to the codebook notification.
   [0222]       In a specific description of the terminal 110 shown in FIG. 11A, the
   processing unit 1102 may be further configured to:
                acquire the coordination codebook from the codebook notification, and use
   the coordination codebook to decode at least one received data flow sent by the at
10 least one base station.
   [0223]       In a specific description of the terminal 110 shown in FIG. 11 A, as shown
   in FIG. 1IB, an optional solution of the terminal 110 may further include:
                a transmitting unit 1103, configured to send a retransmission request to a
   base station that sends the data flow that fails to be decoded, where the retransmission
15 request is used to request the base station that sends the data flow that fails to be
   decoded to resend the data flow that fails to be decoded.
   [0224]       Optionally, in a specific terminal, the receiving unit and the transmitting
   unit may be in independent forms and exist separately, or may be integrated in a
   transceiver unit to bear functions both of the receiving unit and the transmitting unit at
20 the same time, which is not limited in this embodiment of the present invention.
   [0225]       For names of each parameter and each device in the foregoing
   embodiments, a person skilled in the art may use other naming manners, which should
   also fall within the protection scope of the present invention.
   [0226]       According to a data transmission method and an apparatus provided in the
25 present invention, sparse code codebooks that can be used by a base station in a
   coordinating cluster in data transmission with a terminal are mutually different. This
   implements that base stations separately perform data transmission with the terminal
   without performing data exchange or channel information exchange between the base
   stations, thereby reducing system overheads and improving network transmission
30 efficiency.
   [0227]       Based on the foregoing descriptions of the implementation manners, a
   person skilled in the art may clearly understand that the present application may be
   implemented by software in addition to necessary general hardware. Based on such an
   understanding, all or some steps in the technical solutions of the present invention
                                                 38

   may be implemented by a program instructing related hardware. The program may be
   stored in a computer-readable storage medium. When the program runs, the steps in
   the foregoing method embodiments are performed. The storage medium includes a
   ROM/RAM, a magnetic disk, an optical disc, and the like.
 5 [0228]      The foregoing descriptions are merely specific implementation manners of
   the present invention, but are not intended to limit the protection scope of the present
   invention. Any variation or replacement readily figured out by a person skilled in the
   art within the technical scope disclosed in the present invention shall fall within the
   protection scope of the present invention. Therefore, the protection scope of the
10 present invention shall be subject to the protection scope of the claims.
                                               39

                                          CLAIMS
         1. A base station comprising:
        a receiver, configured to receive a codebook instruction sent by a controller,
   wherein the codebook instruction is used to specify a codebook that can be used by
 5 the base station in data transmission with a terminal; the codebook belongs to a
   common sparse code codebook set; the common sparse code codebook set is a set of
   sparse code codebooks that can be used by each base station in a coordinating cluster
   to perform data transmission; and the coordinating cluster is a cluster of base stations
   that provide data transmission for the same terminal, wherein codebooks that can be
10 used by the base stations in the coordinating cluster in data transmission with the
   terminal are mutually different;
        a transmitter, configured to send a codebook notification to the terminal, wherein
   the codebook notification is used to notify the terminal of a coordination codebook;
   the coordination codebook is a codebook that is used by a base station in the
15 coordinating cluster to perform data transmission with the terminal; and the
   coordination codebook belongs to a codebook specified in a codebook instruction
   received by a base station in the coordinating cluster; and
        a processor, configured to use the coordination codebook to perform data
   transmission with the terminal.
20      2. The base station according to claim 1, wherein the transmitter is further
   configured to:
        send a codebook request to the controller, wherein the codebook request carries
   information about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base station,
   wherein
25      the codebook instruction is further used to specify a codebook that can be used
   by the base station to perform data transmission, wherein a quantity of codebooks
   specified in the codebook instruction is not less than the minimum quantity of
   codebooks.
        3. The base station according to claim 2, wherein the processor is further
30 configured to:
        determine, according to a quantity of data flows in data transmission, the
   minimum quantity of codebooks required, wherein the minimum quantity of
                                               40

   codebooks is not less than the quantity of data flows.
         4. The base station according to any one of claims I to 3, wherein
         the receiver is further configured to receive the common sparse code codebook
   set sent by the controller; and
 5       the processor is further configured to determine, from the common sparse code
   codebook set according to the codebook instruction, the codebook that can be used by
   the base station in data transmission.
         5. The base station according to any one of claims I to 4, wherein
         the codebook instruction further comprises coordinating cluster information; and
10       the processor is further configured to determine, according to the coordinating
   cluster information, a coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook instruction.
         6. The base station according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the transmitter
   is further configured to:
         send the common sparse code codebook set to the terminal.
15       7. A controller, comprising:
         a processor, configured to determine a coordinating cluster, wherein the
   coordinating cluster is a cluster of base stations that provide data transmission for a
   same terminal; and
         a transmitter, configured to send a codebook instruction to each base station in
20 the coordinating cluster, wherein the codebook instruction is used to specify a
   codebook that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster in data
   transmission with the terminal; codebooks that can be used by the base stations in data
   transmission belong to a common sparse code codebook set; and the common sparse
   code codebook set is a set of sparse code codebooks that can be used by each base
25 station in the coordinating cluster to perform data transmission, wherein codebooks
   that can be used by the base stations in data transmission are mutually different.
         8. The controller according claim 7, wherein
         the controller further comprises a receiver, configured to receive a codebook
   request sent by each base station in the coordinating cluster, wherein the codebook
30 request carries information about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the
   base station; and
         the processor is further configured to determine, according to the information
   about the minimum quantity of codebooks, a proportion of the minimum quantity of
   codebooks for each base station in the coordinating cluster, and determine, according
                                               41

   to the proportion of the minimum quantity of codebooks, a proportion of a quantity of
   codebooks that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster in data
   transmission with the terminal.
         9. The controller according to claim 8, wherein the codebook instruction is
 5 further used to specify a codebook that can be used by each base station in the
   coordinating cluster in data transmission, wherein a quantity of codebooks specified
   in the codebook instruction is not less than the minimum quantity of codebooks.
         10. The controller according to any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein the codebook
   instruction    further  comprises    coordinating  cluster   information,   wherein   the
10 coordinating cluster information is used by the base station receiving the codebook
   instruction to determine, according to the coordinating cluster information, a
   coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook instruction.
         11. The controller according to any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein the transmitter
   is further configured to:
15       send the common sparse code codebook set to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster.
         12. A terminal, comprising:
         a receiver, configured to receive a codebook notification sent by at least one base
   station in a coordinating cluster, wherein the codebook notification is used by the at
20 least one base station to notify the terminal of a coordination codebook; the
   coordination codebook is a sparse code codebook that is used by the at least one base
   station to perform data transmission with the terminal,    and the coordinating cluster is
   a cluster of base stations that provide data transmission for the same terminal wherein
   codebooks that can be used by the base stations in the coordinating cluster in data
25 transmission with the terminal are mutually different; and
         a processor, configured to use the coordination codebook to perform data
   transmission with the at least one base station.
         13. The terminal according to claim 12, wherein
         the receiver is further configured to receive and save a common sparse code
30 codebook set sent by a base station in the coordinating cluster; and
         the processor is further configured to determine, from the common sparse code
   codebook set, the coordination codebook according to the codebook notification.
         14. The terminal according to claim 12 or claim 13, wherein the processor is
                                               42

   further configured to:
         use the coordination codebook to decode at least one received data flow sent by
   the at least one base station.
         15. The terminal according to claim 14, wherein the terminal further comprises:
 5       a transmitter, configured to: if the processor fails in decoding the at least one data
   flow, send a retransmission request to a base station that sends the data flow that fails
   to be decoded, wherein the retransmission request is used to request the base station
   that sends the data flow that fails to be decoded to resend the data flow that fails to be
   decoded.
10       16. A data transmission method, comprising:
         receiving, by a base station, a codebook instruction sent by a controller, wherein
   the codebook instruction is used to specify a codebook that can be used by the base
   station in data transmission with a terminal; and a coordinating cluster is a cluster of
   base stations that provide data transmission for the same terminal;
15       sending, by the base station, a codebook notification to the terminal, wherein the
   codebook notification is used to notify the terminal of a coordination codebook; the
   coordination codebook is a codebook that is used by a base station in the coordinating
   cluster to perform data transmission with the terminal; the codebook belongs to a
   common sparse code codebook set; the common sparse code codebook set is a set of
20 sparse code codebooks that can be used by each base station in a coordinating cluster
   to perform data transmission, and the coordination codebook belongs to a codebook
   specified in a codebook instruction received by a base station in the coordinating
   cluster, wherein codebooks that can be used by the base stations in the coordinating
   cluster in data transmission with the terminal are mutually different; and
25       using, by the base station, the coordination codebook to perform data
   transmission with the terminal.
         17. The method according to claim 16, wherein before the receiving, by a base
   station, the codebook instruction sent by the controller, the method further comprises:
         sending a codebook request to the controller, wherein the codebook request
30 carries information about a minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base
   station, wherein
         the codebook instruction is further used to specify a codebook that can be used
   by the base station to perform data transmission, wherein a quantity of codebooks
   specified in the codebook instruction is not less than the minimum quantity of
                                                 43

   codebooks.
         18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the base station determines,
   according to a quantity of data flows in data transmission, the minimum quantity of
   codebooks required, wherein the minimum quantity of codebooks is not less than the
 5 quantity of data flows.
         19. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein before the
   sending, by the base station, the codebook notification to the terminal, the method
   further comprises:
         receiving, by the base station, the common sparse code codebook set sent by the
10 controller; and
         determining, by the base station from the common sparse code codebook set
   according to the codebook instruction, the codebook that can be used by the base
   station in data transmission.
         20. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein
15       the codebook instruction further comprises coordinating cluster information; and
         the base station determines, according to the coordinating cluster information, a
   coordinating cluster applicable to the codebook instruction.
         21. The method according to any one of claims 16 to 20, wherein before the
   sending, by the base station, the codebook notification to the terminal, the method
20 further comprises:
         sending, by the base station, the common sparse code codebook set to the
   terminal.
         22. A data transmission method, comprising:
         determining, by a controller, a coordinating cluster, wherein the coordinating
25 cluster is a cluster of base stations that provide data transmission for a same terminal;
   and
         sending, by the controller, a codebook instruction to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster, wherein the codebook instruction is used to specify a codebook
   that can be used by each base station in the coordinating cluster in data transmission
30 with the terminal; codebooks that can be used by the base stations in data transmission
   belong to a common sparse code codebook set; and the common sparse code
   codebook set is a set of sparse code codebooks that can be used by each base station
   in the coordinating cluster to perform data transmission, wherein codebooks that can
   be used by the base stations in data transmission are mutually different.
                                                 44

         23. The method according to claim 22, wherein before the sending, by the
   controller, the codebook instruction to each base station in the coordinating cluster,
   the method further comprises:
         receiving, by the controller, a codebook request sent by each base station in the
 5 coordinating cluster, wherein the codebook request carries information about a
   minimum quantity of codebooks required by the base station;
         determining, by the controller according to the information about the minimum
   quantity of codebooks, a proportion of the minimum quantity of codebooks for each
   base station in the coordinating cluster; and
10       determining, by the controller according to the proportion of the minimum
   quantity of codebooks, a proportion of a quantity of codebooks that can be used by
   each base station in the coordinating cluster in data transmission with the terminal.
         24. The method according to claim 23, wherein the codebook instruction is
   further used to specify a codebook that can be used by each base station in the
15 coordinating cluster in data transmission, wherein a quantity of codebooks specified
   in the codebook instruction is not less than the minimum quantity of codebooks.
         25. The method according to claims 22 to 24, wherein the codebook instruction
   further comprises coordinating cluster information, wherein the coordinating cluster
   information is used by the base station receiving the codebook instruction to
20 determine, according to the coordinating cluster information, a coordinating cluster
   applicable to the codebook instruction.
         26. The method according to any one of claims 22 to 25, wherein before the
   sending, by the controller, the codebook instruction to each base station in the
   coordinating cluster, the method further comprises:
25       sending, by the controller, the common sparse code codebook set to each base
   station in the coordinating cluster.
         27. A data transmission method, comprising:
         receiving, by a terminal, a codebook notification sent by at least one base station
   in a coordinating cluster, wherein the codebook notification is used by the at least one
30 base station to notify the terminal of a coordination codebook; and the coordinating
   cluster is a cluster of base stations that provide data transmission for the same
   terminal, the coordination codebook is a sparse code codebook that is used by the at
   least one base station to perform data transmission with the terminal, wherein
                                               45

   codebooks that can be used by the base stations in the coordinating cluster in data
   transmission with the terminal are mutually different; and
        using, by the terminal, the coordination codebook to perform data transmission
   with the at least one base station.
 5      28. The method according to claim 27, wherein before the receiving, by a
   terminal, the codebook notification sent by at least one base station in the
   coordinating cluster, the method further comprises:
        receiving and saving, by the terminal, a common sparse code codebook set sent
   by a base station in the coordinating cluster; and
10      determining, by the terminal from the common sparse code codebook set, the
   coordination codebook according to the codebook notification.
        29. The method according to claim 27 or claim 28, wherein the using, by the
   terminal, the coordination codebook to perform data transmission with the at least one
   base station is specifically:
15      using, by the terminal, the coordination codebook to decode at least one received
   data flow sent by the at least one base station.
        30. The method according to claim 29, wherein if the terminal fails in decoding
   the at least one data flow, the method further comprises:
        sending, by the terminal, a retransmission request to a base station that sends the
20 data flow that fails to be decoded, wherein the retransmission request is used to
   request the base station that sends the data flow that fails to be decoded to resend the
   data flow that fails to be decoded.
                                                46

                                                  1/12
<removed-date>
                                                                                      101
              A base station receives a codebook instruction sent by a controller
                                                                                      102
                 The base station sends a codebook notification to a terminal
<removed-apn>
                                                                                      103
               The base station uses a coordination codebook to perform data
                               transmission with the terminal
                                                 FIG. 1
                                                                                     201
                       A controller determines a coordinating cluster
                                                                                     202
                 The controller sends a codebook instruction to each base
                            station in the coordinating cluster
                                                 FIG. 2
                                                                                    301
                A terminal receives a codebook notification sent by a base
                             station in a coordinating cluster
                                                                                    302
                The terminal uses a coordination codebook notified in the
               codebook notification to perform data transmission with the
                                       base station
                                                 FIG. 3

                             2/12
<removed-date>
                               BS41
<removed-apn>
                                      UE4
              Controller4
                               BS42
                            FIG. 4A

                                                        3/12
<removed-date>
                     Controller                     Base station                     Terminal
                 401. The controller
              determines a coordinating
                       cluster
<removed-apn>
                            402. The controller sends
                            a codebook instruction to
                             each base station in the
                               coordinating cluster
                                          403. The base station receives the
                                          codebook instruction sent by the
                                                     controller
                                                              404. The base station
                                                                 sends a codebook
                                                            notification to the terminal
                                                                           405. The terminal receives
                                                                            the codebook notification
                                                                           sent by each base station in
                                                                             the coordinating cluster
                                                            406. The base station and
                                                                the terminal use a
                                                            coordination codebook to
                                                            perform data transmission
                                                      FIG. 4B

                                                   4/12
<removed-date>
                                      S41 = {C41, C42}
                                             I41
              S4 = {C41, C42,    ,C46}
                                                           BS41
<removed-apn>
                                                                              UE4
                        Controller4
                                            I42
                       S42 = {C43, C44, C45, C46}
                                                           BS42
                                              FIG. 4C
                            S41 = {C41, C42}
                                                                  N41
                                                                        C42
                                                    BS41
                                                                            UE4
              Controller4
                                                                        C44, C45
                                                                  N42
               S42 = {C43, C44, C45, C46}
                                                    BS42
                                              FIG. 4D

                             5/12
<removed-date>
                               BS51
<removed-apn>
                                      UE5
              Controller5
                               BS52
                               BS53
                            FIG. 5A

                                                           6/12
<removed-date>
               Controller                            Base station                                Terminal
                501. The controller determines a
                      coordinating cluster
              502. The controller selects a common
<removed-apn>
                 sparse code codebook set of the
               coordinating cluster from the sparse
                    code access codebook set
                        503. The controller sends the
                   common sparse code codebook set to
                    each base station in the coordinating
                                   cluster
                                  504. The base station receives the common
                                sparse code codebook set sent by the controller
                         505. The base station sends a
                       codebook request to the controller
              506. The controller specifies, according
              to an acquired proportion of a minimum
                  quantity of codebooks of the base
               station, a codebook that can be used by
              the base station in data transmission and
                  whose quantity is not less than the
                   minimum quantity of codebooks
                         507. The controller sends a
                     codebook instruction to each base
                     station in the coordinating cluster
                                     508. The base station selects a coordination
                                     codebook from a codebook specified in the
                                               codebook instruction
                                                             509. The base station sends the common
                                                             sparse code codebook set to the terminal
                                                              510. The base station sends a codebook
                                                                    notification to the terminal
                                                                        511. The terminal receives the
                                                                     codebook notification sent by each
                                                                    base station in the coordinating cluster
                                                               512. The base station and the terminal
                                                                 use the coordination codebook to
                                                                     perform data transmission
                                                          FIG. 5B

                                                   7/12
<removed-date>
                                                          1
                                            Q51
                                                                BS51
              S5 = {C52, C53, <U+2701> ,C56}
<removed-apn>
                                                   Q52        2
                             Controller5                               UE5
                                                                BS52
                                            Q53
                                                          1
                                                                BS53
                                                  FIG. 5C
                                                  S51'= {C52}
                                           I51
                                                              BS51
              S5'= {C52, C53, <U+2702> ,C56}            S52' = {C53, C54}
                                                  I52
                            Controller5                                UE5
                                                              BS52
                                           I53
                                             S53'= {C55}
                                                              BS53
                                                 FIG. 5D

                                              8/12
<removed-date>
                                S51'= {C52}
                                                            N53
                                               BS51
<removed-apn>
                                                                        C52
                            S52' = {C53, C54}
                                                        N52
                                                                  C54
                                                                          UE5
              Controller5
                                               BS52                     C55
                                                            N51
                               S53'= {C55}
                                               BS53
                                         FIG. 5E
                                                      601         60
                                 Receiver
                                                      602
                                Transmitter
                                                      603
                                 Processor
                                             FIG. 6

                            9/12
<removed-date>
                                    701    70
                Processor
                                    702
               Transmitter
<removed-apn>             FIG. 7A
                                   701    70
              Processor
                                   702
              Transmitter
                                   703
               Receiver
                       FIG. 7B
                                   801    80
               Receiver
                                   802
              Processor
                       FIG. 8A

                             10/12
<removed-date>
                                      801   80
                  Receiver
                                      802
                 Processor
<removed-apn>
                                      803
                Transmitter
                          FIG. 8B
                                      901   90
               Receiving unit
                                      902
              Transmitting unit
                                      903
               Processing unit
                             FIG. 9

                           11/12
<removed-date>
                                    1001    100
               Processing unit
                                    1002
              Transmitting unit
<removed-apn>               FIG. 10A
                                    1001    100
               Processing unit
                                     1002
              Transmitting unit
                                    1003
               Receiving unit
                         FIG. 10B
                                    1101    110
               Receiving unit
                                    1102
               Processing unit
                         FIG. 11A

                           12/12
<removed-date>
                                    1101   110
               Receiving unit
                                    1102
               Processing unit
<removed-apn>
                                    1103
              Transmitting unit
                         FIG. 11B

