                                         ABSTRACT
                Ureteral catheters and assemblies are provided including: a drainage lumen
including a proximal portion configured to be positioned in at least a portion of a patient's
urethra and a distal portion configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney,
the distal portion including a coiled retention portion including at least a first coil having a
first diameter and a second coil having a second diameter, the first diameter being less than
the second diameter; or wherein the retention portion extends radially outwardly from a
portion of the distal end of the drainage lumen portion, the retention portion including a
proximal end having a first diameter, a distal end having a second diameter, and a wall and/or
surface extending therebetween, the retention portion having a second diameter is greater
than the first diameter when deployed; or wherein the retention portion includes a plurality
of drainage tubes.

                                                                100
                                                   121
2
  13 132                                   21            130
                  213
        1202
             6
                                                       8
              112                    118
                121212
               1181F
           118 1210                                          124
                                  148           13
                                                 6
             16       1
                                     130
                                 18
                          14
                    126             124
                                         116
                                            138
                                           140t
                                             12
                             128           174        15
                   FIG. 1
                     1/29

                                                                                       P/00/011
                                                                                  Regulation 3.2
                                        AUSTRALIA
                                      Patents Act 1990
                   COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                         FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                       ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        STRATACA SYSTEMS, LLC
Actual Inventors:         ERBEY II, John R.
                          UPPERCO, Jacob L.
                          FISHER, Michael Allen
                          STRANE, Patrick William
                          BLACK, Lance Michael
Address for Service:      Houlihan2 , Level 1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North, Victoria
                          3104, Australia
Invention Title:          URETERAL AND BLADDER CATHETERS AND
                          METHODS OF INDUCING NEGATIVE PRESSURE TO
                          INCREASE RENAL PERFUSION
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to the Applicant:
                                              1

   URETERAL AND BLADDER CATHETERS AND METHODS OF INDUCING
             NEGATIVE PRESSURE TO INCREASE RENAL PERFUSION
                 CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]     The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent
Application No. <removed-apn>. The entire disclosures of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>       and     its   corresponding     International     Patent    Application    No.
PCT/US2016/043 110, are incorporated herein by reference.
[0002]     This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional Application No.
62/194,585, filed July 20, 2015, United States Provisional Application No. 62/260,966 filed
November 30, 2015, United States Provisional Application No. 62/278,721, filed January
14, 2016, and United States Provisional Application No. 62/300,025 filed February 25, 2016,
each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                      BACKGROUND
Technical Field
[0003]     The present disclosure relates to methods and devices for treating impaired renal
function across a variety of disease states and, in particular, to catheter devices, assemblies,
and methods for collection of urine and/or inducement of negative pressure in the ureters
and/or kidneys.
Background
[0004]     The renal or urinary system includes a pair of kidneys, each kidney being
connected by a ureter to the bladder, and a urethra for draining urine produced by the kidneys
from the bladder. The kidneys perform several vital functions for the human body including,
for example, filtering the blood to eliminate waste in the form of urine. The kidneys also
regulate electrolytes (e.g., sodium, potassium and calcium) and metabolites, blood volume,
blood pressure, blood pH, fluid volume, production of red blood cells, and bone metabolism.
Adequate understanding of the anatomy and physiology of the kidneys is useful for
understanding the impact that altered hemodynamics other fluid overload conditions have
on their function.
[0005]     In normal anatomy, the two kidneys are located retroperitoneally in the abdominal
cavity. The kidneys are bean-shaped encapsulated organs. Urine is formed by nephrons, the
functional unit of the kidney, and then flows through a system of converging tubules called
collecting ducts.   The collecting ducts join together to form minor calyces, then major
                                               2

calyces, which ultimately join near the concave portion of the kidney (renal pelvis). A major
function of the renal pelvis is to direct urine flow to the ureter. Urine flows from the renal
pelvis into the ureter, a tube-like structure that carries the urine from the kidneys into the
bladder.    The outer layer of the kidney is called the cortex, and is a rigid fibrous
encapsulation. The interior of the kidney is called the medulla. The medulla structures are
arranged in pyramids.
[0006]     Each kidney is made up of approximately one million nephrons. Each nephron
includes the glomerulus, Bowman's capsule, and tubules. The tubules include the proximal
convoluted tubule, the loop of Henle, the distal convoluted tubule, and the collecting duct.
The nephrons contained in the cortex layer of the kidney are distinct from the anatomy of
those contained in the medulla. The principal difference is the length of the loop of Henle.
Medullary nephrons contain a longer loop of Henle, which, under normal circumstances,
allows greater regulation of water and sodium reabsorption than in the cortex nephrons.
[0007]     The glomerulus is the beginning of the nephron, and is responsible for the initial
filtration of blood. Afferent arterioles pass blood into the glomerular capillaries, where
hydrostatic pressure pushes water and solutes into Bowman's capsule. Net filtration pressure
is expressed as the hydrostatic pressure in the afferent arteriole minus the hydrostatic
pressure in Bowman's space minus the osmotic pressure in the efferent arteriole.
                Net FiltrationPressure = Hydrostatic Pressure(Afferent
                Arteriole) - Hydrostatic Pressure (Bowman's Space)
                 Osmotic Pressure(Efferent Arteriole) (Equation 1)
[0008]     The magnitude of this net filtration pressure defined by Equation 1 determines how
much ultra-filtrate is formed in Bowman's space and delivered to the tubules. The remaining
blood exits the glomerulus via the efferent arteriole.        Normal glomerular filtration, or
delivery of ultra-filtrate into the tubules, is about 90 ml/min/1.73m 2.
[0009]     The glomerulus has a three-layer filtration structure, which includes the vascular
endothelium, a glomerular basement membrane, and podocytes. Normally, large proteins
such as albumin and red blood cells, are not filtered into Bowman's space.           However,
elevated glomerular pressures and mesangial expansion create surface area changes on the
basement membrane and larger fenestrations between the podocytes allowing larger proteins
to pass into Bowman's space.
[0010]     Ultra-filtrate collected in Bowman's space is delivered first to the proximal
convoluted tubule.      Re-absorption and secretion of water and solutes in the tubules is
                                                  3

performed by a mix of active transport channels and passive pressure gradients.           The
proximal convoluted tubules normally reabsorb a majority of the sodium chloride and water,
and nearly all glucose and amino acids that were filtered by the glomerulus. The loop of
Henle has two components that are designed to concentrate wastes in the urine.            The
descending limb is highly water permeable and reabsorbs most of the remaining water. The
ascending limb reabsorbs 25% of the remaining sodium chloride, creating a concentrated
urine, for example, in terms of urea and creatinine. The distal convoluted tubule normally
reabsorbs a small proportion of sodium chloride, and the osmotic gradient creates conditions
for the water to follow.
[0011]     Under normal conditions, there is a net filtration of approximately 14 mmHg. The
impact of venous congestion can be a significant decrease in net filtration, down to
approximately 4 mmHg. See Jessup M., The cardiorenalsyndrome: Do we need a change
of strategy or a change of tactics?, JACC 53(7):597-600, 2009 (hereinafter "Jessup"). The
second filtration stage occurs at the proximal tubules. Most of the secretion and absorption
from urine occurs in tubules in the medullary nephrons. Active transport of sodium from
the tubule into the interstitial space initiates this process. However, the hydrostatic forces
dominate the net exchange of solutes and water. Under normal circumstances, it is believed
that 75% of the sodium is reabsorbed back into lymphatic or venous circulation. However,
because the kidney is encapsulated, it is sensitive to changes in hydrostatic pressures from
both venous and lymphatic congestion. During venous congestion the retention of sodium
and water can exceed 85%, further perpetuating the renal congestion. See Verbrugge et al.,
The kidney in congestive heart failure: Are natriuresis, sodium, and diruetucs really the
good, the bad and the ugly? European Journal of Heart Failure 2014:16,133-42 (hereinafter
"Verbrugge").
[0012]     Venous congestion can lead to a prerenal form of acute kidney injury
(AKI). Prerenal AKI is due to a loss of perfusion (or loss of blood flow) through the
kidney. Many clinicians focus on the lack of flow into the kidney due to shock. However,
there is also evidence that a lack of blood flow out of the organ due to venous congestion
can be a clinically important sustaining injury.       See Damman K, Importance of venous
congestion fJr worsening renal function in advanced decompensated heart failure, JACC
 17:589-96, 2009 (hereinafter "Damman").
[0013]     Prerenal AKI occurs across a wide variety of diagnoses requiring critical care
admissions. The most prominent admissions are for sepsis and Acute Decompensated Heart
                                                 4

Failure (ADHF).       Additional admissions include cardiovascular surgery, general surgery,
cirrhosis, trauma, burns, and pancreatitis. While there is wide clinical variability in the
presentation of these disease states, a common denominator is an elevated central venous
pressure. In the case of ADHF, the elevated central venous pressure caused by heart failure
leads to pulmonary edema, and, subsequently, dyspnea in turn precipitating                      the
admission. In the case of sepsis, the elevated central venous pressure is largely a result of
aggressive fluid resuscitation. Whether the primary insult was low perfusion due to
hypovolemia or sodium and fluid retention, the sustaining injury is the venous congestion
resulting in inadequate perfusion.
[0014]      Hypertension is another widely recognized state that creates perturbations within
the active and passive transport systems of the kidney(s).          Hypertension directly impacts
afferent arteriole pressure and results in a proportional increase in net filtration pressure
within the glomerulus.          The increased filtration fraction also elevates the peritubular
capillary pressure, which stimulates sodium and water re-absorption. See Verbrugge.
[0015]      Because the kidney is an encapsulated organ, it is sensitive to pressure changes in
the medullary pyramids. The elevated renal venous pressure creates congestion that leads
to a rise in the interstitial pressures. The elevated interstitial pressures exert forces upon both
the glomerulus and tubules.         See Verburgge.    In the glomerulus, the elevated interstitial
pressures directly oppose filtration. The increased pressures increase the interstitial fluid,
thereby increasing the hydrostatic pressures in the interstitial fluid and peritubular capillaries
in the medulla of the kidney. In both instances, hypoxia can ensue leading to cellular injury
and further loss of perfusion. The net result is a further exacerbation of the sodium and water
re-absorption creating a negative feedback.            See Verbrugge, 133-42.       Fluid overload,
particularly in the abdominal cavity is associated with many diseases and conditions,
including elevated intra-abdominal pressure, abdominal compartment syndrome, and acute
renal failure.    Fluid overload can be addressed through renal replacement therapy.            See
Peters, C.D., Short and Long-Term Effects of the Angiotensin II Receptor Blocker
IrbesartanonIntradialylic Central Hemodynanics: A Randomized Double-Blind Placebo
Controlled One-Year Intervention Trial (the SAFIR Study), PLoS ONE (2015) 10(6):
e0126882. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0126882 (hereinafter "Peters").               However, such a
clinical strategy provides no improvement in renal function for patients with the cardiorenal
syndrome. See Bart B, Ultrafiltration in decompensated heart failure with cardiorenal
syndrome. NEJM 2012;367:2296-2304 (hereinafter "Bart").
                                                  5

[0016]     In view of such problematic effects of fluid retention, devices and methods for
improving removal of urine from the urinary tract and, specifically for increasing quantity
and quality of urine output from the kidneys, are needed.
                                          SUMMARY
[0017]     In some examples, ureteral catheters are provided comprising: a drainage lumen
comprising a proximal portion configured to be positioned in at least a portion of a patient's
urethra and a distal portion configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney,
the distal portion comprising a coiled retention portion, wherein the retention portion
comprises at least a first coil having a first diameter and a second coil having a second
diameter, the first diameter being less than the second diameter.
[0018]     In some examples, a urine collection assembly is provided comprising: at least one
ureteral catheter comprising: a drainage lumen comprising a proximal portion configured to
be positioned in at least a portion of a patient's urethra and a distal portion configured to be
positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney, the distal portion comprising a coiled retention
portion, wherein the retention portion comprises at least a first coil having a first diameter
and a second coil having a second diameter, the first diameter being less than the second
diameter; and a bladder catheter for deployment within the patient's bladder, the bladder
catheter comprising: a drainage lumen portion defining a drainage lumen and comprising a
proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in the patient's bladder, and a sidewall
extending therebetween; and a deployable anchor portion comprising a seal configured to
contact a proximal portion of the bladder wall to essentially or fully seal the urethral opening
of the bladder, wherein the drainage lumen portion or the anchor portion comprises at least
one drainage port for permitting fluid flow into the drainage lumen.
[0019]     In some examples, a ureteral catheter is provided comprising: a drainage lumen
portion comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in a patient's
ureter and/or kidney, and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a retention portion
extending radially outwardly from a portion of the distal end of the drainage lumen portion,
the retention portion comprising a proximal end having a first diameter, a distal end having
a second diameter, and a wall and/or surface extending therebetween, the retention portion
being configured to be extended into a deployed position in which the second diameter is
greater than the first diameter.
                                                6

[0020]     In some examples, a urine collection assembly is provided comprising: at least one
ureteral catheter comprising: a drainage lumen portion comprising a proximal end, a distal
end configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney, and a sidewall extending
therebetween; and a retention portion extending radially outwardly from a portion of the
distal end of the drainage lumen portion, the retention portion comprising a proximal end
having a first diameter, a distal end having a second diameter, and a wall and/or surface
extending therebetween, the retention portion being configured to be extended into a
deployed position in which the second diameter is greater than the first diameter; and a
bladder catheter for deployment within the patient's bladder, the bladder catheter
comprising: a drainage lumen portion defining a drainage lumen and comprising a proximal
end, a distal end configured to be positioned in the patient's bladder, and a sidewall
extending therebetween; and a deployable anchor portion comprising a seal configured to
contact a proximal portion of the bladder wall to seal the urethral opening of the bladder,
wherein the drainage lumen portion or the anchor portion comprises at least one drainage
port for permitting fluid flow into the drainage lumen.
[0021]     In some examples, a ureteral catheter is provided comprising: a drainage lumen
portion comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in a patient's
ureter and/or kidney, and a sidewall extending therebetween, the drainage lumen portion
defining a drainage lumen; and a retention portion which, in a deployed position, extends
radially outwardly from a portion of the distal end of the drainage lumen portion, the
retention portion comprising a plurality of tubes extending between a proximal end of the
retention portion and a distal end of the retention portion, wherein each tube defines a lumen
in fluid communication with the drainage lumen defined by the drainage lumen portion and
wherein each tube comprises a plurality of drainage ports for allowing fluid to enter the
lumen.
[0022]     In some examples, a urine collection assembly is provided comprising: at least one
ureteral catheter comprising: a drainage lumen portion comprising a proximal end, a distal
end configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney, and a sidewall extending
therebetween, the drainage lumen portion defining a drainage lumen; and a retention portion
which, in a deployed position, extends radially outward from a portion of the distal end of
the drainage lumen portion, the retention portion comprising a plurality of tubes extending
between a proximal end of the retention portion and a distal end of the retention portion,
wherein each tube defines a lumen in fluid communication with the drainage lumen defined
                                                7

by the drainage lumen portion and wherein each tube comprises a plurality of drainage ports
for allowing fluid to enter the lumen; and a bladder catheter for deployment within the
patient's bladder, the bladder catheter comprising: a drainage lumen portion defining a
drainage lumen and comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in
the patient's bladder, and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a deployable anchor
portion comprising a seal configured to contact a proximal portion of the bladder wall to seal
the urethral opening of the bladder, wherein the drainage lumen portion or the anchor portion
comprises at least one drainage port for permitting fluid flow into the drainage lumen.
[0023]    In some examples, a connector is provided for connecting ureteral catheters
configured to be positioned at a patient's ureter and/or kidney to a vacuum source for
inducing negative pressure in the ureter and/or kidney and for connecting a bladder catheter
to a fluid collection container for fluid collection of urine from the bladder by gravity
drainage, the connector comprising: a connector body; first and second ureteral catheter
inflow ports extending from the connector body, the inflow ports each being configured to
be connected to a ureteral catheter positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney; a ureteral
catheter outflow port in fluid communication with each inflow port and being configured to
be connected to a pump for inducing negative pressure in the respective ureteral catheters; a
gravity drainage inflow port configured to be connected to a bladder catheter; and a gravity
drainage outflow port in fluid communication with the bladder catheter inflow port and being
configured to be connected to a fluid collection container.
[0024]    In some examples, a urine collection assembly is provided comprising: a first
ureteral catheter configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney and a second
ureteral catheter configured to be positioned in the patient's other ureter and/or kidney, the
ureteral catheters each comprising: a drainage lumen portion defining a drainage lumen and
comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter
and/or kidney, and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a retention portion extending
radially outward from a portion of the distal end of the drainage lumen portion, and being
configured to be extended into a deployed position in which a diameter of the retention
portion is greater than a diameter of the drainage lumen portion, wherein at least one of the
drainage lumen portion or the retention portion comprises at least one drainage port to permit
fluid flow into the drainage lumen; and a bladder catheter for deployment within the patient's
bladder, the bladder catheter comprising: a drainage lumen portion defining a drainage
lumen and comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in the
                                               8

patient's bladder, and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a deployable anchor portion
comprising a seal configured to contact a proximal portion of the bladder wall to seal the
urethral opening, wherein at least one of the drainage lumen portion or the anchor portion
comprises at least one drainage port for permitting fluid flow into the drainage lumen.
[0025]     In some examples, a bladder catheter is provided for deployment within the
patient's bladder for collecting excess urine not collected by deployed ureteral catheters
positioned in the patient's ureter and/or kidney, the bladder catheter comprising: a drainage
lumen portion defining a drainage lumen and comprising a proximal end portion, a distal
end portion configured to be positioned in the patient's bladder, and a sidewall extending
therebetween; and a deployable anchor portion configured to contact a proximal portion of
the bladder wall to seal the urethral opening, wherein at least one of the drainage lumen
portion or the anchor portion comprises at least one drainage port for permitting fluid flow
into the drainage lumen for expelling urine from the bladder.
[0026]     In some examples, a system is provided for inducing negative pressure in a portion
of a urinary tract of a patient, the system comprising: a ureteral catheter comprising: a
drainage lumen portion comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned
in a patient's ureter and/or kidney, and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a retention
portion extending radially outward from a portion of the distal end of the drainage lumen
portion, and being configured to be extended into a deployed position in which a diameter
of the retention portion is greater than a diameter of the drainage lumen portion, wherein at
least one of the drainage lumen portion or the retention portion comprises at least one
drainage port to permit fluid flow into the drainage lumen; and a pump in fluid
communication with a drainage lumen defined by the drainage lumen portion of the ureteral
catheter, the pump being configured for inducing a negative pressure in a portion of the
urinary tract of the patient to draw fluid through the drainage lumen of the ureteral catheter.
[0027]     Methods of using the above catheters and assemblies also are provided.
[0028]     In some examples, a method is provided for extracting urine from a ureter and/or
kidney of a patient for effecting interstitial pressure in the kidney, the method comprising:
positioning a distal end of a catheter at a fluid collection position within a patient's ureter
and/or kidney, the catheter comprising a tube defining a drainage lumen and comprising a
helical retention portion and a plurality of drainage ports; inducing a negative pressure within
a drainage lumen of the catheter; and extracting urine by drawing urine through the drainage
                                                 9

ports into the drainage lumen, thereby altering interstitial pressure within the patient's
kidney.
[0029]     In some examples, a method is provided for inhibiting kidney damage by
application of negative pressure to decrease interstitial pressure within tubules of the
medullar region to facilitate urine output and to prevent venous congestion-induced nephron
hypoxia in the medulla of the kidney, the method comprising: deploying a ureteral catheter
in the ureter and/or kidney of a patient such that flow of urine from the ureter and/or kidney
is not prevented by occlusion of the ureter and/or kidney by the deployed catheter; and
applying negative pressure to the ureter and/or kidney through the catheter for a
predetermined period of time to facilitate urine output from the kidney.
[0030]     In some examples, a method is provided for treatment of acute kidney injury due
to venous congestion, the method comprising: deploying a ureteral catheter at a fluid
collection position in the ureter and/or kidney of a patient such that the ureter and/or kidney
is not occluded by the deployed catheter; and applying negative pressure to the ureter and/or
kidney through the catheter for a predetermined period of time, thereby reducing venous
congestion in the kidney to treat acute kidney injury.
[0031]     In some examples, a method is provided for treatment of New York Heart
Association (NYHA) Class III and/or Class IV heart failure through reduction of venous
congestion in the kidney(s), the method comprising: deploying a ureteral catheter in the
ureter and/or kidney of a patient such that flow of urine from the ureter and/or kidney is not
prevented by occlusion of the ureter and/or kidney; and applying negative pressure to the
ureter and/or kidney through the catheter for a predetermined period of time to treat volume
overload in NYHA Class III and/or Class IV heart failure.
[0032]     In some examples, a method is provided for treatment of Stage 4 and/or Stage 5
chronic kidney disease through reduction of venous congestion in the kidney(s), the method
comprising: deploying a ureteral catheter in the ureter and/or kidney of a patient such that
flow of urine from the ureter and/or kidney is not prevented by occlusion of the ureter and/or
kidney; and applying negative pressure to the ureter and/or kidney through the catheter for
a predetermined period of time to treat Stage 4 and/or Stage 5 chronic kidney disease.
[0033]     Non-limiting examples, aspects or embodiments of the present invention will now
be described in the following numbered clauses:
[0034]     Clause 1: A ureteral catheter comprising: a drainage lumen comprising a proximal
portion configured to be positioned in at least a portion of a patient's urethra and a distal
                                               10

portion configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney, the distal portion
comprising a coiled retention portion, wherein the retention portion comprises at least a first
coil having a first diameter and a second coil having a second diameter, the first diameter
being less than the second diameter.
[0035]     Clause 2:    The ureteral catheter of clause 1, wherein the first coil is proximal to
the second coil.
[0036]     Clause 3:    The ureteral catheter of any of clause 1 or clause 2, wherein, prior to
insertion into a patient's urinary tract, a portion of the drainage lumen that is proximal to the
retention portion defines a straight or curvilinear central axis, and wherein the first coil and
the second coil of the retention portion extend about an axis that is at least partially
coextensive with the straight or curvilinear central axis of the portion of the drainage lumen.
[0037]     Clause 4: The ureteral catheter of clause 1 or clause 2, wherein, prior to insertion
to the patient's urinary tract, a portion of the drainage lumen that is proximal to the retention
portion defines a straight or curvilinear central axis, and wherein the first coil and the second
coil of the retention portion extend about an axis that is essentially coextensive with the
straight or curvilinear central axis of the portion of the drainage lumen.
[0038]     Clause 5:    The ureteral catheter of clause 3 or clause 4, wherein the axis of the
retention portion is curved relative to the central axis of the drainage lumen.
[0039]     Clause 6:    The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 1 to 5, wherein a portion of the
drainage lumen that is proximal to the retention portion defines a straight or curvilinear
central axis, and wherein the first coil and the second coil of the retention portion extend
about an axis of the retention portion, the axis of the retention portion being positioned at an
angle from the central axis ranging from about 15 degrees to about 75 degrees.
[0040]     Clause 7:    The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 1 to 6, wherein the catheter is
transitionable between a contracted configuration for insertion into the patient's ureter and
a deployed configuration for deployment within the ureter.
[0041]     Clause 8:    The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 1 to 7, wherein the retention
portion further comprises a third coil, the third coil having a diameter greater than or equal
to either the first diameter or the second diameter.
[0042]     Clause 9:    The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 1 to 8, wherein the retention
portion comprises a tube comprising perforations for permitting fluid to be received within
the lumen of the tube.
                                                 11

[0043]     Clause 10:    The ureteral catheter of clause 9, wherein, in the retention portion, the
tube comprises a radially inwardly facing side and a radially outwardly facing side, and
wherein a total surface area for perforations on the radially inwardly facing side is greater
than a total surface area of perforations on the radially outwardly facing side.
[0044]     Clause 11:    The ureteral catheter of clause 9, wherein, in the retention portion, the
tube comprises a radially inwardly facing side and a radially outwardly facing side, and
wherein the perforations are disposed on the radially inwardly facing side, and wherein the
radially outwardly facing side of the tube is essentially free of perforations.
[0045]     Clause 12:    The ureteral catheter of clause 11, wherein the radially outwardly
facing side of the tube is free of perforations.
[0046]     Clause 13: The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 1 to 12, wherein the tube is
formed, at least in part, from one or more of copper, silver, gold, nickel-titanium alloy,
stainless steel, titanium, polyurethane, polyvinyl chloride, polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE),
latex, and silicone.
[0047]     Clause 14:    A urine collection assembly comprising: at least one ureteral catheter
comprising: a drainage lumen comprising a proximal portion configured to be positioned in
at least a portion of a patient's urethra and a distal portion configured to be positioned in a
patient's ureter and/or kidney, the distal portion comprising a coiled retention portion,
wherein the retention portion comprises at least a first coil having a first diameter and a
second coil having a second diameter, the first diameter being less than the second diameter;
and a bladder catheter for deployment within the patient's bladder, the bladder catheter
comprising: a drainage lumen portion defining a drainage lumen and comprising a proximal
end, a distal end configured to be positioned in the patient's bladder, and a sidewall
extending therebetween; and a deployable anchor portion comprising a seal configured to
contact a proximal portion of the bladder wall to essentially or fully seal the urethral opening
of the bladder, wherein the drainage lumen portion or the anchor portion comprises at least
one drainage port for permitting fluid flow into the drainage lumen.
[0048]     Clause 15:    The assembly of clause 14, wherein the drainage lumen portion of the
at least one ureteral catheter is removably received through the drainage port of the bladder
catheter, such that the proximal end of the at least one ureteral catheter is disposed within
the drainage lumen of the bladder catheter.
[0049]     Clause 16: The assembly of any of clauses 14 or 15, wherein the deployable
anchor portion of the bladder catheter comprises an inflatable element or balloon in fluid
                                                 12

communication with an inflation lumen defined by the drainage lumen portion of the bladder
catheter.
[0050]     Clause 17:   The assembly of any of clauses 14 to 16, wherein the at least one
drainage port is disposed on a sidewall of the bladder catheter at a position proximal to the
deployable anchor portion.
[0051]     Clause 18:   The assembly of any of clauses 14 to 17, wherein the deployable
anchor portion comprises an expandable cage comprising a plurality of flexible members
extending radially and longitudinally from the drainage lumen portion of the bladder
catheter.
[0052]     Clause 19:   The assembly of any of clauses 14 to 18, wherein the deployable
anchor portion comprises a plurality of longitudinally extending members that, in a deployed
position, extend radially and longitudinally outwardly from a portion of the distal end of the
bladder catheter, thereby forming a cage.
[0053]     Clause 20:   The assembly of clause 18, wherein the deployable anchor further
comprises a flexible cover extending about an upper portion of the cage.
[0054]     Clause 21:   The assembly of clause 20, wherein the cover extends over at least
about the upper half, or at about least the upper 2/3, of the cage.
[0055]     Clause 22: The assembly of any of clauses 14 to 21, wherein the drainage lumen
of the at least one ureteral catheter is separate from the drainage lumen of the bladder along
an entire length of the catheters.
[0056]     Clause 23:   A ureteral catheter comprising: a drainage lumen portion comprising
a proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney,
and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a retention portion extending radially outwardly
from a portion of the distal end of the drainage lumen portion, the retention portion
comprising a proximal end having a first diameter, a distal end having a second diameter,
and a wall and/or surface extending therebetween, the retention portion being configured to
be extended into a deployed position in which the second diameter is greater than the first
diameter.
[0057]     Clause 24:   The ureteral catheter of clause 23, wherein the retention portion
comprises an expandable element or balloon in fluid communication with an inflation lumen
extending along the drainage lumen portion.
[0058]     Clause 25:   The ureteral catheter of clause 23 or clause 24, wherein the retention
portion comprises a coiled tube extending from the distal end of the drainage lumen portion,
                                                 13

the tube defining a lumen in fluid communication with the drainage lumen defined by the
drainage lumen portion.
[0059]    Clause 26: The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 23 to 25, wherein the coiled
tube comprises perforations extending through a sidewall of the tube for permitting fluid to
be received within the lumen.
[0060]    Clause 27: The ureteral catheter of clause 26, wherein the perforations are
disposed on a radially inwardly facing portion of the tube, and wherein an opposing radially
outwardly facing portion of the tube is essentially free of perforations.
[0061]    Clause 28:    The ureteral catheter of clause 27, wherein the opposing radially
outwardly facing portion of the tube is free of perforations.
[0062]    Clause 29:    The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 23 to 28, wherein the drainage
lumen portion and the retention portion are formed, at least in part, from one or more of
copper, silver, gold, nickel-titanium alloy, stainless steel, titanium, polyurethane, polyvinyl
chloride, polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), latex, and silicone.
[0063]    Clause 30:    The ureteral catheter of clause 23, wherein the retention portion
comprises a wedge or funnel-shaped extension formed from a compressible and/or porous
material.
[0064]    Clause 31:    The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 23 to 30, wherein the retention
portion is integrally formed with the drainage lumen portion.
[0065]    Clause 32:    The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 23 to 31, wherein the retention
portion further comprises a tapered inner surface configured to direct fluid towards the
drainage lumen defined by the drainage lumen portion.
[0066]    Clause 33:    The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 23 to 32, wherein the drainage
lumen of the catheter is configured to be pressurized to a negative pressure for fluid
collection from the ureter and/or kidney.
[0067]    Clause 34:    A urine collection assembly comprising: at least one ureteral catheter
comprising: a drainage lumen portion comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to
be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney, and a sidewall extending therebetween; and
a retention portion extending radially outwardly from a portion of the distal end of the
drainage lumen portion, the retention portion comprising a proximal end having a first
diameter, a distal end having a second diameter, and a wall and/or surface extending
therebetween, the retention portion being configured to be extended into a deployed position
in which the second diameter is greater than the first diameter; and a bladder catheter for
                                               14

deployment within the patient's bladder, the bladder catheter comprising: a drainage lumen
portion defining a drainage lumen and comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to
be positioned in the patient's bladder, and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a
deployable anchor portion comprising a seal configured to contact a proximal portion of the
bladder wall to seal the urethral opening of the bladder, wherein the drainage lumen portion
or the anchor portion comprises at least one drainage port for permitting fluid flow into the
drainage lumen.
[0068]     Clause 35:   The assembly of clause 34, wherein the drainage lumen portion of the
at least one ureteral catheter is removably received through the drainage port of the bladder
catheter, such that the proximal end of the at least one ureteral catheter is disposed within
the drainage lumen of the bladder catheter.
[0069]     Clause 36:   The assembly of clause 34 or clause 35, wherein the deployable
anchor portion of the bladder catheter comprises an inflatable element or balloon in fluid
communication with an inflation lumen defined by the drainage lumen portion of the bladder
catheter.
[0070]     Clause 37:   The assembly of any of clauses 34 to 36, wherein the at least one
drainage port is disposed on a sidewall of the bladder catheter at a position proximal to the
deployable anchor portion.
[0071]     Clause 38:   The assembly of clause 34, wherein the deployable anchor portion
comprises an expandable cage comprising a plurality of flexible members extending radially
and longitudinally from the drainage lumen portion of the bladder catheter.
[0072]     Clause 39:   The assembly of clause 34, wherein the deployable anchor portion
comprises a plurality of longitudinally extending members that, in a deployed position,
extend radially and longitudinally outward from a portion of the distal end of the bladder
catheter, thereby forcing a cage.
[0073]     Clause 40:   The assembly of clause 38 or clause 39, wherein the deployable
anchor further comprises a flexible cover extending about an upper portion of the cage.
[0074]     Clause 41:   The assembly of clause 40, wherein the cover extends over at least
about the upper half, or at least about the upper 2/3, of the cage.
[0075]     Clause 42:   A ureteral catheter comprising: a drainage lumen portion comprising
a proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney,
and a sidewall extending therebetween, the drainage lumen portion defining a drainage
lumen; and a retention portion which, in a deployed position, extends radially outwardly
                                               15

from a portion of the distal end of the drainage lumen portion, the retention portion
comprising a plurality of tubes extending between a proximal end of the retention portion
and a distal end of the retention portion, wherein each tube defines a lumen in fluid
communication with the drainage lumen defined by the drainage lumen portion and wherein
each tube comprises a plurality of drainage ports for allowing fluid to enter the lumen.
[0076]     Clause 43:   The ureteral catheter of clause 42, wherein each tube comprises a
radially inwardly facing side and a radially outwardly facing side, and wherein the drainage
ports are disposed on the radially inwardly facing side of each tube.
[0077]     Clause 44:   The ureteral catheter of clause 43, wherein the radially outwardly
facing side of each tube is essentially free of drainage ports.
[0078]     Clause 45:   The ureteral catheter of clause 43, wherein the radially outwardly
facing side of each tube is free of drainage ports.
[0079]     Clause 46:   The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 42 to 45, wherein the retention
portion is transitionable from a contracted position, in which each of the plurality of tubes is
substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of the drainage lumen portion and the deployed
position in which portions of the tubes extend radially outwardly from the drainage lumen
portion.
[0080]     Clause 47:   The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 42 to 46, wherein in the
deployed position the tubes define a spherical or ellipsoidal cavity, and wherein the drainage
lumen portion extends at least partially into the cavity.
[0081]     Clause 48:   The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 42 to 47, wherein the drainage
lumen portion and the retention portion are formed, at least in part, from one or more of
copper, silver, gold, nickel-titanium alloy, stainless steel, titanium, polyurethane, polyvinyl
chloride, polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), latex, and silicone.
[0082]     Clause 49:   The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 42 to 48, wherein the retention
portion is integrally formed with the drainage lumen portion.
[0083]     Clause 50:   The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 42 to 49, wherein the drainage
lumen of the catheter is configured to be pressurized to a negative pressure for fluid
collection from the ureter and/or kidney.
[0084]     Clause 51:   A urine collection assembly comprising: at least one ureteral catheter
comprising: a drainage lumen portion comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to
be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney, and a sidewall extending therebetween, the
drainage lumen portion defining a drainage lumen; and a retention portion which, in a
                                                16

deployed position, extends radially outward from a portion of the distal end of the drainage
lumen portion, the retention portion comprising a plurality of tubes extending between a
proximal end of the retention portion and a distal end of the retention portion, wherein each
tube defines a lumen in fluid communication with the drainage lumen defined by the
drainage lumen portion and wherein each tube comprises a plurality of drainage ports for
allowing fluid to enter the lumen; and a bladder catheter for deployment within the patient's
bladder, the bladder catheter comprising: a drainage lumen portion defining a drainage
lumen and comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in the
patient's bladder, and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a deployable anchor portion
comprising a seal configured to contact a proximal portion of the bladder wall to seal the
urethral opening of the bladder, wherein the drainage lumen portion or the anchor portion
comprises at least one drainage port for permitting fluid flow into the drainage lumen.
[0085]     Clause 52:   The assembly of clause 51, wherein the drainage lumen portion of the
at least one ureteral catheter is removably received through the drainage port of the bladder
catheter, such that the proximal end of the at least one ureteral catheter is disposed within
the drainage lumen of the bladder catheter.
[0086]     Clause 53: The assembly of clause 51 or clause 52, wherein the deployable
anchor portion of the bladder catheter comprises an inflatable element or balloon in fluid
communication with an inflation lumen defined by the drainage lumen portion of the bladder
catheter.
[0087]     Clause 54:   The assembly of any of clauses 51 to 53, wherein the at least one
drainage port is disposed on a sidewall of the bladder catheter at a position proximal to the
deployable anchor portion.
[0088]     Clause 55: The assembly of clause 51 or clause 52, wherein the deployable
anchor portion comprises an expandable cage comprising a plurality of flexible members
extending radially and longitudinally from the drainage lumen portion of the bladder
catheter.
[0089]     Clause 56: The assembly of clause 51 or clause 52, wherein the deployable
anchor portion comprises a plurality of longitudinally extending members that, in a deployed
position, extend radially and longitudinally outward from a portion of the distal end of the
bladder catheter, thereby forming a cage.
[0090]     Clause 57: The assembly of clause 55 or clause 56, wherein the deployable
anchor further comprises a flexible cover extending about an upper portion of the cage.
                                              17

[0091]     Clause 58:   The assembly of clause 57, wherein the cover extends over at least
about the upper half, or about the upper 2/3, of the cage.
[0092]     Clause 59:   A connector for connecting ureteral catheters configured to be
positioned at a patient's ureter and/or kidney to a vacuum source for inducing negative
pressure in the ureter and/or kidney and for connecting a bladder catheter to a fluid collection
container for fluid collection of urine from the bladder by gravity drainage, the connector
comprising: a connector body; first and second ureteral catheter inflow ports extending from
the connector body, the inflow ports each being configured to be connected to a ureteral
catheter positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney; a ureteral catheter outflow port in
fluid communication with each inflow port and being configured to be connected to a pump
for inducing negative pressure in the respective ureteral catheters; a gravity drainage inflow
port configured to be connected to the bladder catheter; and a gravity drainage outflow port
in fluid communication with the bladder catheter inflow port and being configured to be
connected to a fluid collection container.
[0093]     Clause 60: The connector of clause 59, wherein the connector body defines a
fluid conduit extending from the at least two ureteral catheter inflow ports to the single
ureteral catheter outflow port.
[0094]     Clause 61: The connector of clause 59 or clause 60, wherein the inflow ports are
configured to removably receive ends of the respective catheters.
[0095]     Clause 62:   The connector of any of clauses 59 to 61, wherein the vacuum outflow
port and the gravity drainage outflow port are positioned for connection to a single socket
for establishing fluid connection with the pump and fluid connection container.
[0096]     Clause 63: A urine collection assembly comprising: a first ureteral catheter
configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney and a second ureteral catheter
configured to be positioned in the patient's other ureter and/or kidney, the ureteral catheters
each comprising: a drainage lumen portion defining a drainage lumen and comprising a
proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney,
and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a retention portion extending radially outward
from a portion of the distal end of the drainage lumen portion, and being configured to be
extended into a deployed position in which a diameter of the retention portion is greater than
a diameter of the drainage lumen portion, wherein at least one of the drainage lumen portion
or the retention portion comprises at least one drainage port to permit fluid flow into the
drainage lumen; and a bladder catheter for deployment within the patient's bladder, the
                                               18

bladder catheter comprising: a drainage lumen portion defining a drainage lumen and
comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in the patient's bladder,
and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a deployable anchor portion comprising a seal
configured to contact a proximal portion of the bladder wall to seal the urethral opening,
wherein at least one of the drainage lumen portion or the anchor portion comprises at least
one drainage port for permitting fluid flow into the drainage lumen.
[0097]    Clause 64:    The assembly of clause 63, further comprising a connector for
connecting proximal ends of the ureteral catheters to a vacuum source and for connecting
the proximal end of the bladder catheter to a fluid collection container for fluid collection by
gravity drainage.
[0098]    Clause 65: The assembly of clause 64, wherein the connector comprises: at least
two ureteral catheter inflow ports for connection to the respective proximal ends of the first
ureteral catheter and the second ureteral catheter; a ureteral catheter outflow port in fluid
communication with each inflow port and being configured to be connected to a pump for
inducing negative pressure in the respective ureteral catheters; a gravity drainage inflow port
configured to be connected to the proximal end of the bladder catheter; and an outflow port
in fluid communication with the bladder catheter inflow port and being configured to be
connected to a fluid collection container.
[0099]    Clause 66: The assembly of clause 65, wherein the connector further comprises
conduit extending from the at least two ureteral catheter inflow ports to the single ureteral
catheter outflow port.
[00100]     Clause 67: The assembly of clause 65 or clause 66, wherein the proximal ends of
the respective catheters are removably connected to their respective inflow ports.
[00101]     Clause 68: The assembly of any clauses 63 to 67, wherein the deployable anchor
portion of the bladder catheter comprises an inflatable element or balloon in fluid
communication with an inflation lumen defined by the drainage lumen portion of the bladder
catheter.
[00102]     Clause 69: The assembly of clause 63, wherein the deployable anchor portion
comprises an expandable cage comprising a plurality of flexible members extending radially
and longitudinally from the drainage lumen portion of the bladder catheter and a cover
enclosing at least a portion of the cage.
[00103]     Clause 70: The assembly of clause 68 or clause 69, wherein the deployable
anchor further comprises a flexible cover extending about an upper portion of the cage.
                                               19

[00104]     Clause 71: The assembly of clause 70, wherein the cover extends over at least
about the upper half, or at least about the upper 2/3, of the cage.
[00105]     Clause 72: A bladder catheter for deployment within the patient's bladder for
collecting excess urine not collected by deployed ureteral catheters positioned in the
patient's ureter and/or kidney, the bladder catheter comprising: a drainage lumen portion
defining a drainage lumen and comprising a proximal end portion, a distal end portion
configured to be positioned in the patient's bladder, and a sidewall extending therebetween;
and a deployable anchor portion configured to contact a proximal portion of the bladder wall
to seal the urethral opening, wherein at least one of the drainage lumen portion or the anchor
portion comprises at least one drainage port for permitting fluid flow into the drainage lumen
for expelling urine from the bladder.
[00106]     Clause 73: The bladder catheter of clause 72, wherein the deployable anchor
portion comprises an inflatable element or balloon in fluid communication with an inflation
lumen defined by the drainage lumen portion of the bladder catheter.
[00107]     Clause 74: The bladder catheter of clause 73, wherein the inflatable element or
balloon comprises an upper portion configured to be positioned in the patient's bladder and
a lower portion configured to be positioned in the patient's urethra.
[00108]     Clause 75: The bladder catheter of any of clauses 62 to 74, wherein the at least
one drainage port is disposed on a sidewall of the bladder catheter at a position proximal to
the anchor portion.
[00109]     Clause 76: The bladder catheter of clause 72, wherein the deployable anchor
portion comprises an expandable cage comprising a plurality of flexible members extending
radially and longitudinally from the drainage lumen portion of the bladder catheter and a
cover enclosing at least a portion of the cage.
[00110]     Clause 77: The bladder catheter of clause 76, wherein the deployable anchor
portion further comprises a flexible cover extending about an upper portion of the cage.
[00111]     Clause 78: The bladder catheter of clause 77, wherein the cover extends over at
least about the upper half, or at least about the upper 2/3, of the cage.
[00112]     Clause 79: A system for inducing negative pressure in a portion of a urinary tract
of a patient, the system comprising: a ureteral catheter comprising: a drainage lumen portion
comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter
and/or kidney, and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a retention portion extending
radially outward from a portion of the distal end of the drainage lumen portion, and being
                                                20

configured to be extended into a deployed position in which a diameter of the retention
portion is greater than a diameter of the drainage lumen portion, wherein at least one of the
drainage lumen portion or the retention portion comprises at least one drainage port to permit
fluid flow into the drainage lumen; and a pump in fluid communication with a drainage
lumen defined by the drainage lumen portion of the ureteral catheter, the pump being
configured for inducing a negative pressure in a portion of the urinary tract of the patient to
draw fluid through the drainage lumen of the ureteral catheter.
[00113]     Clause 80: The system of clause 79, further comprising: a bladder catheter for
deployment within the patient's bladder, the bladder catheter comprising: a drainage lumen
portion defining a drainage lumen and comprising a proximal end, a distal end configured to
be positioned in the patient's bladder, and a sidewall extending therebetween; and a
deployable anchor portion comprising a seal configured to contact a proximal portion of the
bladder wall to seal the urethral opening, wherein at least one of the drainage lumen portion
or the anchor portion comprises at least one drainage port for permitting fluid flow into the
drainage lumen for expelling urine from the bladder.
[00114]     Clause 81: The system of clause 80, further comprising an external fluid
collection container in fluid communication with the drainage lumen of the bladder catheter
for gravity drainage of fluid through the bladder catheter.
[00115]     Clause 82: The system of any of clauses 79 to 81, further comprising one or more
sensors in fluid communication with the drainage lumen, the one or more sensors being
configured to determine information comprising at least one of capacitance, analyte
concentration, and temperature of urine within the respective drainage lumen; and a
processor comprising computer readable memory including programming instructions that,
when executed, cause the processor to: receive the information from the one or more sensors
and adjust an operating parameter of the pump based, at least in part, on the information
received from the one or more sensors to increase or decrease vacuum pressure in the
drainage lumen of the at least one ureteral catheter to adjust flow of urine through the
drainage lumen.
[00116]     Clause 83: The system of clause 82, further comprising a data transmitter in
communication with the processor, the data transmitter being configured to provide the
information from the one or more sensors to an external source.
[00117]     Clause 84: The system of any of clauses 80 to 83, wherein the pump provides a
sensitivity of 10 mmHg or less.
                                              21

[00118]     Clause 85: The system of any of clauses 80 to 84, wherein the pump is capable
of continuous operation for a time period ranging from about 8 to about 24 hours per day.
[00119]     Clause 86: They system of any of clauses 80 to 85, wherein the pump is
configured to provide intermittent negative pressure.
[00120]     Clause 87: The system of any of clauses 80 to 86, wherein the pump is configured
to apply negative pressure independently to each catheter such that the pressure in each
catheter can be the same or different from the other catheter(s).
[00121]     Clause 88: The system of any of clauses 80 to 86, wherein the pump is configured
to alternate between providing negative pressure and providing positive pressure.
[00122]     Clause 89: The system of any of clauses 80 to 86, wherein the pump is configured
to alternate between providing negative pressure and equalizing pressure to atmosphere.
[00123]     Clause 90: The system of clause 88, wherein the negative pressure is provided
within a range of 5 mmHg to 50 mmHg, and/or wherein the positive pressure is provided
within a range of 5 mmHg to 20 mmHg.
[00124]     Clause 91: The system of any of clauses 80 to 90, wherein the pump is configured
to alternate between two or more different pressure levels.
[00125]     Clause 92: The system of clause 91, wherein the pump is configured to adjust the
pressure levels at a regular or irregular frequency based, at least in part, on a predetermined
algorithm.
[00126]     Clause 93: The system of clause 92, wherein the predetermined algorithm is
based in part on demographic data and/or patient-specific variables.
[00127]     Clause 94: The system of clause 93, wherein the demographic data and/or
patient-specific variables comprise one or more of anatomical, genetic, physiological, and
pathophysiological factors.
[00128]     Clause 95: The system of clause 92, wherein the predetermined algorithm is
based, in part, on continuously or non-continuously changing patient values, the patient
values comprising one or more of urine output rate, peristaltic activity of renal and/or
urological system, heart rate, cardiac output, blood pressure, respiration rate, renal blood
flow, renal plasma flow, and biomarkers.
[00129]     Clause 96: A method for extracting urine from a ureter and/or kidney of a patient
for effecting interstitial pressure in the kidney, the method comprising: positioning a distal
end of a catheter at a fluid collection position within a patient's ureter and/or kidney, the
catheter comprising a tube defining a drainage lumen and comprising a helical retention
                                                22

portion and a plurality of drainage ports; inducing a negative pressure within a drainage
lumen of the catheter; and extracting urine by drawing urine through the drainage ports into
the drainage lumen, thereby altering interstitial pressure within the patient's kidney.
[00130]      Clause 97: The method of clause 96, wherein positioning the catheter comprises
deploying the catheter by expanding the helical retention portion at the fluid collection
position.
[00131]      Clause 98: The method of clause 96 or clause 97, further comprising positioning
a distal end of the bladder catheter in the patient's bladder and deploying an anchor within
the bladder, such that the anchor essentially or fully seals the urethral sphincter of the
bladder.
[00132]      Clause 99: The method of clause 98, wherein positioning the bladder catheter in
the bladder comprises advancing the bladder catheter over a guidewire used for positioning
of the ureteral catheter.
[00133]      Clause 100: A method of inhibiting kidney damage by application of negative
pressure to decrease interstitial pressure within tubules of the medullar region to facilitate
urine output and to prevent venous congestion-induced nephron hypoxia in the medulla of
the kidney, the method comprising: deploying a ureteral catheter in the ureter and/or kidney
of a patient such that flow of urine from the ureter and/or kidney is not prevented by
occlusion of the ureter and/or kidney by the deployed catheter; and applying negative
pressure to the ureter and/or kidney through the catheter for a period of time sufficient to
facilitate urine output from the kidney.
[00134]      Clause 101: The method of clause 100, further comprising positioning a bladder
catheter in the patient's bladder, such that an anchor of the bladder catheter essentially or
fully seals the urethral sphincter of the bladder.
[00135]      Clause 102: The method of clause 101, further comprising causing drainage of
urine from the bladder through the bladder catheter for a period of time.
[00136]      Clause 103: The method of clause 100, wherein deploying the catheter comprises
accessing the ureter and/or kidney through an incision or orifice other than the urethral
orifice.
[00137]      Clause 104:    A method for treatment of acute kidney injury due to venous
congestion. the method comprising: deploying a ureteral catheter in the ureter and/or kidney
of a patient such that flow of urine from the ureter and/or kidney is not prevented by
occlusion of the ureter and/or kidney; and applying negative pressure to the ureter and/or
                                               23

kidney through the catheter for a period of time sufficient to treat acute kidney injury due to
venous congestion.
[00138]      Clause 105: A method for treatment of NYHA Class III and/or Class IV heart
failure through reduction of venous congestion in the kidney(s), the method comprising:
deploying a ureteral catheter in the ureter and/or kidney of a patient such that flow of urine
from the ureter and/or kidney is not prevented by occlusion of the ureter and/or kidney; and
applying negative pressure to the ureter and/or kidney through the catheter for a period of
time sufficient to treat NYHA Class III and/or Class IV heart failure.
[00139]      Clause 106: A method for treatment of NYHA Class II, Class III, and/or Class
IV heart failure through reduction of venous congestion in the kidney(s), the method
comprising: deploying a catheter in a bladder of a patient such that flow of urine into the
bladder from a ureter and/or kidney is not prevented by occlusion; and applying negative
pressure to the bladder through the catheter for a period of time sufficient to treat NYHA
Class II, Class III, and/or Class IV heart failure.
[00140]      Clause 107: A method for treatment of Stage 4 and/or Stage 5 chronic kidney
disease through reduction of venous congestion in the kidney(s), the method comprising:
deploying a ureteral catheter in a ureter and/or kidney of a patient such that flow of urine
from the ureter and/or kidney is not prevented by occlusion of the ureter and/or kidney; and
applying negative pressure to the ureter and/or kidney through the catheter for a period of
time sufficient to treat Stage 4 and/or Stage 5 chronic kidney disease.
[00141]      Clause 108: A method for treatment of Stage 3, Stage 4, and/or Stage 5 chronic
kidney disease through reduction of venous congestion in the kidney(s), the method
comprising: deploying a catheter in a bladder of a patient such that flow of urine from a
ureter and/or kidney is not prevented by occlusion; and applying negative pressure to the
bladder through the catheter for a period of time sufficient to treat Stage 3, Stage 4, and/or
Stage 5 chronic kidney disease.
[00142]      Clause 109:    A ureteral catheter, comprising: a drainage lumen comprising a
proximal portion configured to be positioned in at least a portion of a patient's urethra and a
distal portion configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or kidney, the distal
portion comprising a coiled retention portion, the coiled retention portion comprising: at
least a first coil having a first diameter; at least a second coil having a second diameter, the
first diameter being less than the second diameter; and one or more perforations on a sidewall
of the drainage lumen for permitting fluid flow into the drainage lumen, wherein, prior to
                                                 24

insertion into a patient's urinary tract, a portion of the drainage lumen that is proximal to the
retention portion defines a straight or curvilinear central axis, and wherein, when deployed,
the first coil and the second coil of the retention portion extend about an axis of the retention
portion that is at least partially coextensive with the straight or curvilinear central axis of the
portion of the drainage lumen.
[00143]      Clause 110: The ureteral catheter of clause 109, wherein the axis of the retention
portion is curved relative to the central axis of the drainage lumen.
[00144]      Clause 111: The ureteral catheter of clause 109 or clause 110, wherein at least a
portion of the axis of the retention portion extends at an angle from the central axis ranging
from about 15 degrees to about 75 degrees.
[00145]      Clauses 112: The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 109 to 111, wherein the
catheter is transitionable between a contracted configuration for insertion into the patient's
ureter and a deployed configuration for deployment within the ureter.
[00146]      Clause 113: The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 109 to 112, wherein the
retention portion further comprises a third coil extending about the axis of the retention
portion, the third coil having a diameter greater than or equal to either the first diameter or
the second diameter.
[00147]      Clause 114:    The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 109 to 113, wherein, the
retention portion of the drainage lumen comprises a sidewall comprising a radially inwardly
facing side and a radially outwardly facing side, and wherein a total surface area of
perforations on the radially inwardly facing side is greater than a total surface area of
perforations on the radially outwardly facing side.
[00148]      Clause 115: The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 109 to 114, wherein, the
retention portion of the drainage lumen comprises a sidewall comprising a radially inwardly
facing side and a radially outwardly facing side, and wherein the one or more perforations
are disposed on the radially inwardly facing side, and wherein the radially outwardly facing
side is essentially free of perforations.
[00149]      Cause 116: The ureteral catheter of clause any of clauses 109 to 116, wherein the
drainage lumen is formed, at least in part, from one or more of copper, silver, gold, nickel
titanium      alloy,   stainless    steel,   titanium,    polyurethane,     polyvinyl    chloride,
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), latex, and silicone.
                                                  25

[00150]     Clause 117: The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 109 to 116, wherein the
retention portion of the drainage lumen further comprises an open distal end for permitting
fluid flow into the drainage lumen.
[00151]     Clause 118: The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 109 to 117, wherein each of
the one or more perforations has a diameter of about 0.7 to 0.9 mm.
[00152]     Clause 119: The ureteral catheter of any of clauses 109 to 118, wherein the first
diameter is about 8 mm to 10 mm and the second dimeter is about 16 mm to 20 mm.
[00153]     Clause 120: A system for inducing negative pressure in a portion of a urinary
tract of a patient, the system comprising: at least one urine collection catheter comprising a
drainage lumen comprising a proximal portion configured to be positioned in at least a
portion of a patient's urethra and a distal portion configured to be positioned in a patient's
ureter and/or kidney, the distal portion comprising a coiled retention portion, the coiled
retention portion comprising: at least a first coil having a first diameter; at least a second coil
having a second diameter, the first diameter being less than the second diameter; and one or
more perforations on a sidewall of the drainage lumen for permitting fluid flow into the
drainage lumen, wherein, prior to insertion into a patient's urinary tract, a portion of the
drainage lumen that is proximal to the retention portion defines a straight or curvilinear
central axis, and wherein, when deployed, the first coil and the second coil of the retention
portion extend about an axis of the retention portion that is at least partially coextensive with
the straight or curvilinear central axis of the portion of the drainage lumen; and a pump in
fluid communication with the drainage lumen of the at least one ureteral catheter, the pump
being configured for inducing a negative pressure in a portion of the urinary tract of the
patient to draw fluid through the drainage lumen of the ureteral catheter.
[00154]     Clause 121: The system of clause 120, further comprising: one or more sensors
in fluid communication with the drainage lumen, the one or more sensors being configured
to determine information comprising at least one of capacitance, analyte concentration, and
temperature of urine within the respective drainage lumen; and a controller comprising
computer readable memory including programming instructions that, when executed, cause
the controller to: receive the information from the one or more sensors and adjust an
operating parameter of the pump based, at least in part, on the information received from the
one or more sensors to increase or decrease vacuum pressure in the drainage lumen of the at
least one ureteral catheter to adjust flow of urine through the drainage lumen.
                                                26

[00155]     Clause 122: The system of clause 120 or clause 121, further comprising a data
transmitter in communication with the controller, the data transmitter being configured to
provide the information from the one or more sensors to an external source.
[00156]     Clause 123: The system of any of clauses 120 to 122, wherein the pump provides
a sensitivity of 10 mmHg or less.
[00157]     Clause 124:    The system of any of clauses 120 to 122, wherein the pump is
configured to alternate between providing negative pressure and providing positive pressure.
[00158]     Clause 125: The system of clause 124, wherein the negative pressure is provided
within a range of 5 mmHg to 50 mmHg, and wherein the positive pressure is provided within
a range of 5 mmHg to 20 mmHg.
[00159]     Clause 126: A method of inhibiting kidney damage by application of negative
pressure to decrease interstitial pressure within tubules of the medullar region to facilitate
urine output and to prevent venous congestion-induced nephron hypoxia in the medulla of
the kidney, the method comprising: deploying a ureteral catheter in the ureter and/or kidney
of a patient such that flow of urine from the ureter and/or kidney is not prevented by
occlusion of the ureter and/or kidney by the deployed catheter; and applying negative
pressure to the ureter and/or kidney through the catheter for a period of time sufficient to
facilitate urine output from the kidney, wherein the ureteral catheter comprises a drainage
lumen comprising a proximal portion configured to be positioned in at least a portion of a
patient's urethra and a distal portion configured to be positioned in a patient's ureter and/or
kidney, the distal portion comprising a coiled retention portion, the coiled retention portion
comprising: at least a first coil having a first diameter; at least a second coil having a second
diameter, the first diameter being less than the second diameter; and one or more perforations
on a sidewall of the drainage lumen for permitting fluid flow into the drainage lumen,
wherein, prior to deployment, a portion of the drainage lumen that is proximal to the
retention portion defines a straight or curvilinear central axis, and wherein, upon
deployment, the first coil and the second coil of the retention portion extend about an axis
of the retention portion that is at least partially coextensive with the straight or curvilinear
central axis of the portion of the drainage lumen.
[00160]     Clause 127: The method of clause 126, further comprising, upon application of
negative pressure to the ureter and/or kidney, extracting urine by drawing urine through the
one or more perforations into the drainage lumen, thereby altering interstitial pressure within
the patient's kidney.
                                                 27

[00161]     Clause 128: The method of clause 126 or clause 127, wherein application of
negative pressure to the ureter and/or kidney through the catheter is provided for a period of
time sufficient to treat acute kidney injury due to venous congestion.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00162]     These and other features and characteristics of the present disclosure, as well as
the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structures and the
combination of parts and economies of manufacture, will become more apparent upon
consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the
accompanying drawings, all of which form a part of this specification, wherein like reference
numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures.           It is to be expressly
understood, however, that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description
only and are not intended as a definition of the limit of the invention.
[00163]     Further features and other examples and advantages will become apparent from
the following detailed description made with reference to the drawings in which:
[00164]     FIG. 1 is a schematic drawing of an indwelling portion of a urine collection
assembly deployed in a urinary tract of a patient, according to an example of the present
invention;
[00165]     FIG. 2A is a perspective view of an exemplary ureteral catheter according to an
example of the disclosure;
[00166]     FIG. 2B is a front view of the ureteral catheter of FIG. 2A;
[00167]     FIG. 3A is a schematic drawing of an example of a retention portion for a ureteral
catheter according to an example of the present invention;
[00168]     FIG. 3B is a schematic drawing of another example of a retention portion for a
ureteral catheter according to an example of the present invention;
[00169]     FIG. 3C is a schematic drawing of another example of a retention portion for a
ureteral catheter according to an example of the present invention;
[00170]     FIG. 3D is a schematic drawing of another example of a retention portion for a
ureteral catheter according to an example of the present invention;
[00171]     FIG. 3E is a schematic drawing of another example of a retention portion for a
ureteral catheter according to an example of the present invention;
[00172]     FIG. 4A is a schematic drawing of another example of a retention portion for a
ureteral catheter according to an example of the present invention;
                                               28

[00173]     FIG. 4B is a schematic drawing of a cross-sectional view of a portion of the
retention portion of FIG. 4A, taken along lines B-B of FIG. 4A;
[00174]     FIG. 5A is a schematic drawing of another example of a retention portion for a
ureteral catheter according to an example of the present invention;
[00175]     FIG. 5B is a schematic drawing of a portion of a cross-sectional view of the
retention portion of FIG. 5A, taken along lines B-B of FIG. 5A;
[00176]     FIG. 6 is a schematic drawing of another example of a retention portion for a
ureteral catheter according to an example of the present invention;
[00177]     FIG. 7 is a schematic drawing of a cross section of another example of a retention
portion for a ureteral catheter according to an example of the present invention;
[00178]     FIG. 8 is a schematic drawing of another example of a retention portion for a
ureteral catheter according to an example of the present invention;
[00179]     FIG. 9A is a schematic drawing of another example of a urine collection assembly
according to an example of the present invention;
[00180]     FIG. 9B is a partial schematic drawing taken along section 9B-9B of the bladder
anchor portion of the assembly of FIG. 9A;
[00181]     FIG. IA     is a schematic drawing of another example of a urine collection
assembly according to an example of the present invention;
[00182]     FIG. 10B is a schematic drawing taken along section 10B-10B of the bladder
anchor portion of the assembly of FIG. 1OA;
[00183]     FIG. 11 A is a schematic drawing of a urine collection assembly according to an
example of the present invention;
[00184]     FIG. 11B is a schematic drawing taken along section 111B-11B of a bladder
anchor portion of the assembly of FIG. 11A;
[00185]     FIG. 12A is a schematic drawing of another bladder anchor portion of a urine
collection assembly according to an example of the disclosure;
[00186]     FIG. 12B is a schematic drawing of a cross section of a bladder catheter of a urine
collection assembly, taken along line C-C of FIG. 12A;
[00187]     FIG. 12C is a schematic drawing of a cross section of another example of a
bladder catheter of a urine collection assembly;
[00188]     FIG. 13 is a schematic drawing of another example of a bladder anchor portion
of a urine collection assembly according to an example of the present disclosure;
                                              29

[00189]     FIG. 14 is a schematic drawing of another example of a bladder anchor portion
of a urine collection assembly according to an example of the present disclosure;
[00190]     FIG. 15 is a schematic drawing of another example of a bladder anchor portion
of a urine collection assembly configured to be deployed in the patient's bladder and urethra
according to an example of the present invention;
[00191]     FIG. 16 is a schematic drawing of another example of a bladder anchor portion
of a urine collection assembly according to an example of the present invention;
[00192]     FIG. 17A is an exploded perspective view of a connector for a urine collection
assembly according to an example of the disclosure;
[00193]     FIG. 17B is a cross-sectional view of a portion of the connector of FIG. 17A;
[00194]     FIG. 17C is a schematic drawing of a connector for a urine collection assembly
according to an example of the disclosure;
[00195]     FIG. 18A is a flow chart illustrating a process for insertion and deployment of a
ureteral catheter or urine collection assembly according to an example of the present
invention;
[00196]     FIG. 18B is a flow chart illustrating a process for applying negative pressure
using a ureteral catheter or urine collection assembly according to an example of the present
invention;
[00197]     FIG. 19 is a schematic drawing of a system for inducing negative pressure to the
urinary tract of a patient according to an example of the present invention;
[00198]     FIG. 20A is a plan view of a pump for use with the system of FIG. 19 according
to an example of the present invention;
[00199]     FIG. 20B is a side elevation view of the pump of FIG. 20A;
[00200]     FIG. 21 is a schematic drawing of an experimental set-up for evaluating negative
pressure therapy in a swine model;
[00201]     FIG. 22 is a graph of creatinine clearance rates for tests conducted using the
experimental set-up shown in FIG. 21;
[00202]     FIG. 23A is a low magnification photomicrograph of kidney tissue from a
congested kidney treated with negative pressure therapy;
[00203]     FIG. 23B is a high magnification photomicrograph of the kidney tissue shown in
FIG. 23A;
[00204]     FIG. 23C is a low magnification photomicrograph of kidney tissue from a
congested and untreated (e.g., control) kidney; and
                                               30

[00205]     FIG. 23D is a high magnification photomicrograph of the kidney tissue shown in
FIG. 23C.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[00206]     As used herein, the singular form of "a", "an", and "the" include plural referents
unless the context clearly states otherwise.
[00207]     As used herein, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising"
are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or
components referred to, but not to preclude the presence or addition of one or more other
feature, integer, step, component or group thereof.
[00208]     As used herein, the terms "right", "left", "top", and derivatives thereof shall relate
to the invention as it is oriented in the drawing figures. The term "proximal" refers to the
portion of the catheter device that is manipulated or contacted by a user and/or to a portion
of an indwelling catheter nearest to the urinary tract access site. The term "distal" refers to
the opposite end of the catheter device that is configured to be inserted into a patient and/or
to the portion of the device that is inserted farthest into the patient's urinary tract. However,
it is to be understood that the invention can assume various alternative orientations and,
accordingly, such terms are not to be considered as limiting.        Also, it is to be understood
that the invention can assume various alternative variations and stage sequences, except
where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices
and processes illustrated in the attached drawings, and described in the following
specification, are examples. Hence, specific dimensions and other physical characteristics
related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting.
[00209]     For the purposes of this specification, unless otherwise indicated, all numbers
expressing     quantities   of  ingredients,    reaction    conditions,    dimensions,    physical
characteristics, and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being
modified in all instances by the term "about." Unless indicated to the contrary, the numerical
parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are approximations
that can vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present
invention.
[00210]     Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad
scope of the invention are approximations, the numerical values set forth in the specific
examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value, however, inherently
                                                31

contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their
respective testing measurements.
[00211]      Also, it should be understood that any numerical range recited herein is intended
to include all sub-ranges subsumed therein. For example, a range of "i to 10" is intended to
include any and all sub-ranges between and including the recited minimum value of 1 and
the recited maximum value of 10, that is, all subranges beginning with a minimum value
equal to or greater than 1 and ending with a maximum value equal to or less than 10, and all
subranges in between, e.g., I to 6.3, or 5.5 to 10, or 2.7 to 6.1.
[00212]      As used herein, the terms "communication" and "communicate" refer to the
receipt or transfer of one or more signals, messages, commands, or other type of data. For
one unit or component to be in communication with another unit or component means that
the one unit or component is able to directly or indirectly receive data from and/or transmit
data to the other unit or component. This can refer to a direct or indirect connection that can
be wired and/or wireless in nature. Additionally, two units or components can be in
communication with each other even though the data transmitted can be modified, processed,
routed, and the like, between the first and second unit or component. For example, a first
unit can be in communication with a second unit even though the first unit passively receives
data, and does not actively transmit data to the second unit. As another example, a first unit
can be in communication with a second unit if an intermediary unit processes data from one
unit and transmits processed data to the second unit. It will be appreciated that numerous
other arrangements are possible.
[00213]      Fluid retention and venous congestion are central problems in the progression to
advanced renal disease.       Excess sodium ingestion coupled with relative decreases in
excretion leads to isotonic volume expansion and secondary compartment involvement. In
some examples, the present invention is generally directed to devices and methods for
facilitating drainage of urine or waste from the bladder, ureter, and/or kidney(s) of a patient.
In some examples, the present invention is generally directed to devices and methods for
inducing a negative pressure in the bladder, ureter, and/or kidney(s) of a patient. While not
intending to be bound by any theory, it is believed that applying a negative pressure to the
bladder, ureter, and/or kidney(s) can offset the medullary nephron tubule re-absorption of
sodium and water in some situations. Offsetting re-absorption of sodium and water can
increase urine production, decrease total body sodium, and improve erythrocyte production.
Since the intra-medullary pressures are driven by sodium and, therefore, volume overload,
                                               32

the targeted removal of excess sodium enables maintenance of volume loss. Removal of
volume restores medullary hemostasis. Normal urine production is 1.48-1.96 L/day (or 1
1.4 ml/min).
[00214]     Fluid retention and venous congestion are also central problems in the
progression of prerenal Acute Kidney Injury (AKI). Specifically, AKI can be related to loss
of perfusion or blood flow through the kidney(s).          Accordingly, in some examples, the
present invention facilitates improved renal hemodynamics and increases urine output for
the purpose of relieving or reducing venous congestion.           Further, it is anticipated that
treatment and/or inhibition of AKI positively impacts and/or reduces the occurrence of other
conditions, for example, reduction or inhibition of worsening renal function in patients with
NYHA Class III and/or Class IV heart failure. Classification of different levels of heart
failure are described in The CriteriaCommittee of the New York HeartAssociation, (1994),
Nomenclature and Criteria for Diagnosis of Diseases of the Heart and Great Vessels, (9th
ed.), Boston: Little, Brown & Co. pp. 253-256, the disclosure of which is incorporated by
reference herein in its entirety.       Reduction or inhibition of episodes of AKI and/or
chronically decreased perfusion may also be a treatment for Stage 4 and/or Stage 5 chronic
kidney disease.     Chronic kidney disease progression is described in National Kidney
Foundation, KIDOQI ClinicalPractice Guidelinesfor Chronic Kidney Disease: Evaluation,
Classification and Stratification. Am. J. Kidney Dis. 39:SI-S266, 2002 (Suppl. 1), the
disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[00215]     With reference to FIG. 1, the urinary tract comprises a patient's right kidney 2
and left kidney 4. As discussed above, the kidneys 2, 4 are responsible for blood filtration
and clearance of waste compounds from the body through urine. Urine produced by the
right kidney 2 and the left kidney 4 is drained into a patient's bladder 10 through tubules,
namely a right ureter 6 and a left ureter 8. For example, urine may be conducted through the
ureters 6, 8 by peristalsis of the ureter walls, as well as by gravity. The ureters 6, 8 enter the
bladder 10 through a ureter orifice or opening 16.           The bladder 10 is a flexible and
substantially hollow structure adapted to collect urine until the urine is excreted from the
body. The bladder 10 is transitionable from an empty position (signified by reference line
E) to a full position (signified by reference line F). Normally, when the bladder 10 reaches
a substantially full state, urine is permitted to drain from the bladder 10 to a urethra 12
through a urethral sphincter or opening 18 located at a lower portion of the bladder 10.
Contraction of the bladder 10 can be responsive to stresses and pressure exerted on a trigone
                                                 33

region 14 of the bladder 10, which is the triangular region extending between the ureteral
openings 16 and the urethral opening 18. The trigone region 14 is sensitive to stress and
pressure, such that as the bladder 10 begins to fill, pressure on the trigone region 14
increases. When a threshold pressure on the trigone region 14 is exceeded, the bladder 10
begins to contract to expel collected urine through the urethra 12.
Exemplary ureteral catheters:
[00216]      As shown in FIG. 1, a urine collection assembly 100 including ureteral catheters
 112, 114 configured to be positioned within the urinary tract of a patient is illustrated. For
example, distal ends 120, 121 of the ureteral catheters 112, 114 can be configured to be
deployed in the patient's ureters 2, 4 and, in particular, in a renal pelvis 20, 21 area of the
kidneys 6, 8.
[00217]      In some examples, the urine collection assembly 100 can comprise two separate
ureteral catheters, such as a first catheter 112 disposed in or adjacent to the renal pelvis 20
of the right kidney 2 and a second catheter 114 disposed in or adjacent to the renal pelvis 21
of the left kidney 4. The catheters 112, 114 can be separate for their entire lengths, or can
be held in proximity to one another by a clip, ring, clamp, or other type of connection
mechanism (e.g., connector 150) to facilitate placement or removal of the catheters 112, 114.
In some examples, catheters 112, 114 can merge or be connected together to form a single
drainage lumen.      In other examples, the catheters 112, 114 can be inserted through or
enclosed within another catheter, tube, or sheath along portions or segments thereof to
facilitate insertion and retraction of the catheters 112, 114 from the body. For example, a
bladder catheter 116 can be inserted over and/or along the same guidewire as the ureteral
catheters 112, 114, thereby causing the ureteral catheters 112, 114 to extend from the distal
end of the bladder catheter 116.
[00218]      With reference to FIGS. 1, 2A, and 2B, an exemplary ureteral catheter 112 can
comprise at least one elongated body or tube 122, the interior of which defines or comprises
one or more drainage channel(s) or lumen(s), such as drainage lumen 124. The tube 122
size can range from about I Fr to about 9 Fr (French catheter scale). In some examples, the
tube 122 can have an external diameter ranging from about 0.33 to about 3 mm, and an
internal diameter ranging from about 0.165 to about 2.39 mm. In one preferable example,
the tube 122 is 6 Fr and has an outer diameter of 2.0  0.1 mm. The length of the tube 122
can range from about 30 cm to about 120 cm depending on the age (e.g., pediatric or adult)
and gender of the patient.
                                               34

[00219]      The tube 122 can be formed from a flexible and/or deformable material to
facilitate advancing and/or positioning the tube 122 in the bladder 10 and ureters 6, 8 (shown
in FIG. 1). The catheter material should be flexible and soft enough to avoid or reduce
irritation of the renal pelvis and ureter, but should be rigid enough that the tube 122 does not
collapse when the renal pelvis or other portions of the urinary tract exert pressure on the
exterior of the tube 122, or when the renal pelvis and/or ureter are drawn against the tube
122 during inducement of negative pressure. For example, the tube 122 can be formed from
materials including biocompatible polymers, polyvinyl chloride, polytetrafluoroethylene
(PTFE) such as Teflon@, silicon coated latex, or silicon. In one preferable example, the tube
 122 is formed from a thermoplastic polyurethane. At least a portion or all of the catheter
112, such as the tube 122, can be coated with a hydrophilic coating to facilitate insertion
and/or removal, and/or to enhance comfort. In some examples, the coating is a hydrophobic
and/or lubricious coating. For example, suitable coatings can comprise ComfortCoat@
hydrophilic coating which is available from Koninklijke DSM N.V. or hydrophilic coatings
comprising polyelectrolyte(s) such as are disclosed in United States Patent No. 8,512,795,
which is incorporated herein by reference.
[00220]      In some examples, the tube 122 can comprise: a distal portion 118 (e.g., a portion
of the tube 122 configured to be positioned in the ureter 6, 8 and renal pelvis 20, 21); a
middle portion 126 (e.g., a portion of the tube 122 configured to extend from the distal
portion through the ureteral openings 16 into the patient's bladder 10 and urethra 12); and a
proximal portion 128 (e.g., a portion of the tube 122 extending from the urethra 12 to an
external fluid collection container and/or pump assembly). In one preferred example, the
combined length of the proximal portion 128 and the middle portion 126 of the tube 122 is
about 54  2 cm. In some examples, the tube 122 terminates in another indwelling catheter
and/or drainage lumen, such as in a drainage lumen of the bladder catheter 116. In that case,
fluid drains from the proximal end of the ureteral catheter 112, 114 and is directed from the
body through the additional indwelling catheter and/or drainage lumen.
Exemplary ureteral retention portions:
[00221]       With continued reference to FIGS. 1, 2A, and 2B, the distal portion 118 of the
ureteral catheter 112 comprises a retention portion 130 for maintaining the distal end 120 of
the catheter 112 at a desired fluid collection position proximate to or within the renal pelvis
20, 21 of the kidney 2. 4. In some examples, the retention portion 130 is configured to be
flexible and bendable to permit positioning of the retention portion 130 in the ureter and/or
                                                 35

renal pelvis. The retention portion 130 is desirably sufficiently bendable to absorb forces
exerted on the catheter 112 and to prevent such forces from being translated to the ureters.
For example, if the retention portion 130 is pulled in the proximal direction P (shown in FIG.
3A) toward the patient's bladder, the retention portion 130 can be sufficiently flexible to
begin to unwind or be straightened so that it can be drawn through the ureter. Similarly,
when the retention portion 130 can be reinserted into the renal pelvis or other suitable region
within the ureter, it can be biased to return to its deployed configuration.
[00222]     In some examples, the retention portion 130 is integral with the tube 122. In that
case, the retention portion 130 can be formed by imparting a bend or curl to the catheter
body 122 that is sized and shaped to retain the catheter at a desired fluid collection location.
Suitable bends or coils can include a pigtail coil, corkscrew coil, and/or helical coil. For
example, the retention portion 130 can comprise one or more radially and longitudinally
extending helical coils configured to contact and passively retain the catheter 112 within the
ureter 6, 8 proximate to or within the renal pelvis 20, 21. In other examples, the retention
portion 130 is formed from a radially flared or tapered portion of the catheter body 122. For
example, the retention portion 130 can further comprise a fluid collecting portion, as shown
in FIGS. 4A and 4B, such as a tapered or funnel-shaped inner surface 186.               In other
examples, the retention portion 130 can comprise a separate element connected to and
extending from the catheter body or tube 122.
[00223]     The retention portion 130 can further comprise one or more perforated sections,
such as drainage holes or ports 132 (shown in FIGS. 3A-3E). A drainage port can be located,
for example, at the open distal end 120, 121 of the tube 122. In other examples, perforated
sections and/or drainage ports 132 are disposed along the sidewall of the distal portion 118
of the catheter tube 122. The drainage ports or holes can be used for assisting in fluid
collection. In other examples, the retention portion 130 is solely a retention structure and
fluid collection and/or imparting negative pressure is provided by structures at other
locations on the catheter tube 122.
[00224]     Referring now to FIGS. 2A, 2B, and 3A-3E, exemplary retention portions 130
comprising a plurality of helical coils, such as one or more full coils 184 and one or more
half or partial coils 183, are illustrated. The retention portion 130 is capable of moving
between a contracted position and the deployed position with the plurality of helical coils.
For example, a substantially straight guidewire can be inserted through the retention portion
 130 to maintain the retention portion 130 in a substantially straight contracted position.
                                                36

When the guidewire is removed, the retention portion 130 can transition to its coiled
configuration. In some examples, the coils 183, 184 extend radially and longitudinally from
the distal portion 118 of the tube 122. With specific reference to FIGS. 2A and 2B, in a
preferred exemplary embodiment, the retention portion 130 comprises two full coils 184 and
one half coil 183. The outer diameter of the full coils 184, shown by line D1, can be about
18  2 mm. The half coil 183 diameter D2 can be about 14 mm. The coiled retention portion
130 has a height H of about 16  2 mm. The retention portion 130 can further comprise the
one or more drainage holes 132 (shown in FIGS. 3A-3E) configured to draw fluid into an
interior of the catheter tube 122. In some examples, the retention portion 130 can comprise
six drainage holes, plus an additional hole at the distal tip 120 of the retention portion. The
diameter of each of the drainage holes 132 (shown in FIGS. 3A-3E) can range from about
0.7 mm to 0.9 mm and, preferably, is about 0.83  0.01 mm. The distance between adjacent
drainage holes 132, specifically the linear distance between drainage holes 132 when the
coils are straightened, can be about 22.5  2.5 mm.
[00225]     As shown in FIGS. 3A-3E, in another exemplary embodiment, the distal portion
118 of the drainage lumen proximal to the retention portion 130 defines a straight or
curvilinear central axis L. In some examples, at least a half or first coil 183 and a full or
second coil 184 of the retention portion 130 extend about an axis A of the retention portion
130. The first coil 183 initiates or begins at a point where the tube 122 is bent at an angle a
ranging from about 15 degrees to about 75 degrees from the central axis L, as indicated by
angle a, and preferably about 45 degrees. As shown in FIGS. 3A and 3B, prior to insertion
in the body, the axis A can be coextensive with the longitudinal central axis L. In other
examples, as shown in FIGS. 3C-3E, prior to insertion in the body, the axis A extends from
and is curved or angled, for example at angle P, relative to the central longitudinal axis L.
[00226]     In some examples, multiple coils 184 can have the same inner and/or outer
diameter D and height H2. In that case, the outer diameter D1 of the coils 184 may range
between 10 mm and 30 mm. The height H2 between coils 184 may be about 3 mm to 10
mm.
[00227]     In other examples, the retention portion 130 is configured to be inserted in the
tapered portion of the renal pelvis. For example, the outer diameter D1 of the coils 184 can
increase toward the distal end 120 of the tube 122, resulting in a helical structure having a
tapered or partially tapered configuration.      For example, the distal or maximum outer
diameter D1 of the tapered helical portion ranges from about 10 mm to about 30 mm, which
                                               37

corresponds to the dimensions of the renal pelvis. The height H2 of the retention portion
130 ranges from about 10 mm to about 30 mm.
[00228]      In some examples, the outer diameter D1 and/or height H2 of the coils 184 can
vary in a regular or irregular fashion. For example, the outer diameter D1 of coils or height
H2 between coils can increase or decrease by a regular amount (e.g., about 10% to about
25% between adjacent coils 184). For example, for a retention portion 130 having three
coils (as shown, for example, in FIGS. 3A and 3B) an outer diameter D3 of a proximal-most
coil or first coil 183 can be about 6 mm to 18 mm, an outer diameter D2 of a middle coil or
second coil 185 can be about 8 mm to about 24 mm, and an outer diameter DI of a distal
most or third coil 187 can be between about 10 mm and about 30 mm.
[00229]      The retention portion 130 can further comprise the drainage ports 132 or holes
disposed on or through the sidewall of the catheter tube 122 on or adjacent to the retention
portion 130 to permit urine waste to flow from the outside of the catheter tube 122 to the
inside of the catheter tube 122. The position and size of the drainage ports 132 can vary
depending upon the desired flow rate and configuration of the retention portion.            The
diameter of the drainage ports 132 can range from about 0.005 mm to about 1.0 mm. The
spacing between the drainage ports 132 can range from about 1.5 mm to about 5 mm. The
drainage ports 132 can be spaced in any arrangement, for example, linear or offset. In some
examples, the drainage ports 132 can be non-circular, and can have a surface area of about
.00002 to 0.79 mm2 .
[00230]      In some examples, as shown in FIG. 3A, the drainage ports 132 are located around
the entire periphery of the sidewall of the catheter tube 122 to increase an amount of fluid
that can be drawn into the drainage lumen 124 (shown in FIGS. 1, 2A, and 2B). In other
examples, as shown in FIGS. 3B-3E, the drainage ports 132 can be disposed essentially only
or only on the radially inwardly facing side of the coils 184 to prevent occlusion or blockage
of the drainage ports 132, and the outwardly facing side of the coils may be essentially free
of drainage ports 132 or free of drainage ports 132. For example, when negative pressure is
induced in the ureter and/or renal pelvis, mucosal tissue of the ureter and/or kidney may be
drawn against the retention portion 130 and may occlude some drainage ports 132 on the
outer periphery of the retention portion 130. Drainage ports 132 located on the radially
inward side of the retention structure would not be appreciably occluded when such tissues
contact the outer periphery of the retention portion 130. Further, risk of injury to the tissues
from pinching or contact with the drainage ports 132 can be reduced or ameliorated.
                                              38

[00231]     With reference to FIGS. 3C and 3D, other examples of ureteral catheters 112
having a retention portion 130 comprising a plurality of coils are illustrated. As shown in
FIG. 3C, the retention portion 130 comprises three coils 184 extending about the axis A.
The axis A is a curved arc extending from the central longitudinal axis L of the portion of
the drainage lumen 181 proximal to the retention portion 130. The curvature imparted to the
retention portion 130 can be selected to correspond to the curvature of the renal pelvis, which
comprises a cornucopia-shaped cavity.
[00232]     As shown in FIG. 3D, in another exemplary embodiment, the retention portion
130 can comprise two coils 184 extending about an angled axis A. The angled axis A extends
at an angle from a central longitudinal axis L, and is angled, as shown by angle P, relative to
an axis generally perpendicular to the central axis L of the portion of the drainage lumen.
The angle   P can  range from about 15 to about 75 degrees (e.g., about 105 to about 165
degrees relative to the central longitudinal axis L of the drainage lumen portion of the
catheter 112).
[00233]     FIG. 3E shows another example of a ureteral catheter 112. The retention portion
comprises three helical coils 184 extending about an axis A. The axis A is angled, as shown
by angle P, relative to the horizontal. As in the previously-described examples, the angle    P
can range from about 15 to about 75 degrees (e.g., about 105 to about 165 degrees relative
to the central longitudinal axis L of the drainage lumen portion of the catheter 112).
[00234]     With reference to FIGS. 4A and 4B, in another example, a retention portion 130
of a ureteral catheter 112 comprises a catheter tube 122 having a widened and/or tapered
distal end portion which, in some examples, is configured to be positioned in the patient's
renal pelvis and/or kidney. For example, the retention portion 130 can be a funnel-shaped
structure comprising an outer surface 185 configured to be positioned against the ureter
and/or kidney wall and comprising an inner surface 186 configured to direct fluid toward a
drainage lumen 124 of the catheter 112. The retention portion 130 can comprise a proximal
end 188 adjacent to the distal end of the drainage lumen 124 and having a first diameter D1
and a distal end 190 having a second diameter D2 that is greater than the first diameter D1
when the retention portion 130 is in its deployed position. In some examples, the retention
portion 130 is transitionable from a collapsed or compressed position to the deployed
position. For example, the retention portion 130 can be biased radially outward such that
when the retention portion 130 is advanced to its fluid collecting position, the retention
portion 130 (e.g., the funnel portion) expands radially outward to the deployed state.
                                               39

[00235]     The retention portion 130 of the ureteral catheter 112 can be made from a variety
of suitable materials that are capable of transitioning from the collapsed state to the deployed
state. In one example, the retention portion 130 comprises a framework of tines or elongated
members formed from a temperature sensitive shape memory material, such as nitinol. In
some examples, the nitinol frame can be covered with a suitable waterproof material such as
silicon to form a tapered portion or funnel. In that case, fluid is permitted to flow down the
inner surface 186 of the retention portion 130 and into the drainage lumen 124. In other
examples, the retention portion 130 is formed from various rigid or partially rigid sheets or
materials bended or molded to form a funnel-shaped retention portion as illustrated in FIGS.
4A and 4B.
[00236]     In some examples, the retention portion of the ureteral catheter 112 can include
one or more mechanical stimulation devices 191 for providing stimulation to nerves and
muscle fibers in adjacent tissues of the ureter(s) and renal pelvis.         For example, the
mechanical stimulation devices 191 can include linear or annular actuators embedded in or
mounted adjacent to portions of the sidewall of the catheter tube 122 and configured to emit
low levels of vibration.     In some examples, mechanical stimulation can be provided to
portions of the ureters and/or renal pelvis to supplement or modify therapeutic effects
obtained by application of negative pressure. While not intending to be bound by theory, it
is believed that such stimulation affects adjacent tissues by, for example, stimulating nerves
and/or actuating peristaltic muscles associated with the ureter(s) and/or renal pelvis.
Stimulation of nerves and activation of muscles may produce changes in pressure gradients
or pressure levels in surrounding tissues and organs which may contribute to or, in some
cases, enhance therapeutic benefits of negative pressure therapy.
[00237]     With reference to FIGS. 5A and 5B, according to another example, a retention
portion 330 of a ureteral catheter 312 comprises a catheter tube 322 having a distal portion
318 formed in a helical structure 332 and an inflatable element or balloon 350 positioned
proximal to the helical structure 332 to provide an additional degree of retention in the renal
pelvis and/or fluid collection location. A balloon 350 can be inflated to pressure sufficient
to retain the balloon in the renal pelvis or ureter, but low enough to avoid distending or
damaging these structures. Suitable inflation pressures are known to those skilled in the art
and are readily discernible by trial and error. As in previously-described examples, the
helical structure 332 can be imparted by bending the catheter tube 322 to form one or more
coils 334. The coils 334 can have a constant or variable diameter and height as described
                                                40

above. The catheter tube 322 further comprises a plurality of drainage ports 336 disposed
on the sidewall of the catheter tube 322 to allow urine to be drawn into the drainage lumen
324 of the catheter tube 322 and to be directed from the body through the drainage lumen
324, for example on the inwardly facing and/or outwardly facing sides of the coil 334.
[00238]      As shown in FIG. 5B, the inflatable element or balloon 350 can comprise an
annular balloon-like structure having, for example, a generally heart-shaped cross section
and comprising a surface or cover 352 defining a cavity 353. The cavity 353 is in fluid
communication with an inflation lumen 354 extending parallel to the drainage lumen 324
defined by the catheter tube 322. The balloon 350 can be configured to be inserted in the
tapered portion of the renal pelvis and inflated such that an outer surface 356 thereof contacts
and rests against an inner surface of the ureter and/or renal pelvis. The inflatable element or
balloon 350 can comprise a tapered inner surface 358 extending longitudinally and radially
inward towards the catheter tube 322. The inner surface 358 can be configured to direct
urine toward the catheter tube 322 to be drawn into the drainage lumen 324. The inner
surface 358 can also be positioned to prevent fluid from pooling in the ureter, such as around
the periphery of the inflatable element or balloon 350. The inflatable retention portion or
balloon 350 is desirably sized to fit within the renal pelvis and can have a diameter ranging
from about 10 mm to about 30 mm.
[00239]      With reference to FIGS. 6 and 7, in some examples, an assembly 400 including a
ureteral catheter 412 comprising a retention portion 410 is illustrated. The retention portion
410 is formed from a porous and/or sponge-like material that is attached to a distal end 421
of a catheter tube 422. The porous material can be configured to channel and/or absorb urine
and direct the urine toward a drainage lumen 424 of the catheter tube 422. As shown in FIG.
7, the retention portion 410 can be a porous wedge shaped-structure configured for insertion
and retention in the patient's renal pelvis. The porous material comprises a plurality of holes
and/or channels. Fluid can be drawn through the channels and holes, for example, by gravity
or upon inducement of negative pressure through the catheter 412. For example, fluid can
enter the wedge-shaped retention portion 410 through the holes and/or channels and is drawn
toward a distal opening 420 of the drainage lumen 424, for example, by capillary action,
peristalsis, or as a result of the inducement of negative pressure in the holes and/or channels.
In other examples, as shown in FIG. 7, the retention portion 410 comprises a hollow, funnel
structure formed from the porous sponge-like material.         As shown by arrow A, fluid is
directed down an inner surface 426 of the funnel structure into the drainage lumen 424
                                                41

defined by the catheter tube 422. Also, fluid can enter the funnel structure of the retention
portion 410 through holes and channels in the porous sponge-like material of a sidewall 428.
For example, suitable porous materials can include open-celled polyurethane foams, such as
polyurethane ether. Suitable porous materials can also include laminates of woven or non
woven layers comprising, for example, polyurethane, silicone, polyvinyl alcohol, cotton, or
polyester, with or without antimicrobial additives such as silver, and with or without
additives for modifying material properties such as hydrogels, hydrocolloids, acrylic, or
silicone.
[00240]     With reference to FIG. 8, according to another example, a retention portion 500
of a ureteral catheter 512 comprises an expandable cage 530. The expandable cage 530
comprises one or more longitudinally and radially extending hollow tubes 522. For example,
the tubes 522 can be formed from an elastic, shape memory material such as nitinol. The
cage 530 is configured to transition from a contracted state, for insertion through the patient's
urinary tract, to a deployed state for positioning in the patient's ureters and/or kidney. The
hollow tubes 522 comprise a plurality of drainage ports 534 which can be positioned on the
tubes, for example, on radially inward facing sides thereof. The ports 534 are configured to
permit fluid to flow or be drawn through the ports 534 and into the respective tubes 522.
The fluid drains through the hollow tubes 522 into a drainage lumen 524 defined by a
catheter body 526 of the ureteral catheter 512. For example, fluid can flow along the path
indicated by the arrows 532 in FIG. 8. In some examples, when negative pressure is induced
in the renal pelvis, kidneys, and/or ureters, portions of the ureter wall and/or renal pelvis
may be drawn against the outward facing surfaces of the hollow tubes 522. The drainage
ports 534 are positioned and configured so as not to be appreciably occluded by ureteral
structures upon application of negative pressure to the ureters and/or kidney.
Exemplary urine collection assembly:
[00241]     Referring now to FIGS. 1, 9A, and 11 A, the urine collection assembly 100 further
comprises a bladder catheter 116. The distal ends 120, 121 of the ureteral catheters 112, 114
can be connected to the bladder catheter 116 to provide a single drainage lumen for urine, or
the ureteral catheter(s) can drain via separate tube(s) from the bladder catheter 116.
        Exenplary bladder catheter
[00242]     The bladder catheter 116 comprises a deployable seal and/or anchor 136 for
anchoring, retaining, and/or providing passive fixation for indwelling portions of the urine
collection assembly 100 and, in some examples, to prevent premature and/or untended
                                               42

removal of assembly components during use. The anchor 136 is configured to be located
adjacent to the lower wall of the patient's bladder 10 (shown in FIG. 1) to prevent patient
motion and/or forces applied to indwelling catheters 112, 114, 116 from translating to the
ureters. The bladder catheter 116 comprises an interior of which defines a drainage lumen
140 configured to conduct urine from the bladder 10 to an external urine collection container
712 (shown in FIG. 19). In some examples, the bladder catheter 116 size can range from
about 8 Fr to about 24 Fr. In some examples, the bladder catheter 116 can have an external
diameter ranging from about 2.7 to about 8 mm. In some examples, the bladder catheter 116
can have an internal diameter ranging from about 2.16 to about 6.2 mm. The bladder catheter
116 can be available in different lengths to accommodate anatomical differences for gender
and/or patient size. For example, the average female urethra length is only a few inches, so
the length of a tube 138 can be rather short. The average urethra length for males is longer
due to the penis and can be variable. It is possible that woman can use bladder catheters 116
with longer length tubes 138 provided that the excess tubing does not increase difficulty in
manipulating and/or preventing contamination of sterile portions of the catheter 116. In
some examples, a sterile and indwelling portion of the bladder catheter 116 can range from
about 1 inch to 3 inches (for women) to about 20 inches for men. The total length of the
bladder catheter 116 including sterile and non-sterile portions can be from one to several
feet.
[00243]     The catheter tube 138 can comprise one or more drainage ports 142 configured
to be positioned in the bladder 10 for drawing urine into the drainage lumen 140. For
example, excess urine left in the patient's bladder 10 during placement of the ureteral
catheters 112, 114 is expelled from the bladder 10 through the ports 142 and drainage lumen
140.    In addition, any urine that is not collected by the ureteral catheters 112, 114
accumulates in the bladder 10, and can be conducted from the urinary tract through the
drainage lumen 140. The drainage lumen 140 may be pressurized to a negative pressure to
assist in fluid collection or may be maintained at atmospheric pressure such that fluid is
collected by gravity and/or as a result of partial contraction of the bladder 10. In some
examples, the ureteral catheters 112, 114 may extend from the drainage lumen 140 of the
bladder catheter 116 to facilitate and/or simplify insertion and placement of the ureteral
catheters 112, 114.
[00244]     With specific reference to FIG. 1, the deployable seal and/or anchor 136 is
disposed at or adjacent to a distal end 148 of the bladder catheter 116. The deployable anchor
                                                43

136 is configured to transition between a contracted state for insertion into the bladder 10
through the urethra 12 and urethral opening 18 and a deployed state. The anchor 136 is
configured to be deployed in and seated adjacent to a lower portion of the bladder 10 and/or
against the urethral opening 18. For example, the anchor 136 can be positioned adjacent to
the urethral opening 18 to enhance suction of a negative pressure applied to the bladder 10
or, in the absence of negative pressure, to partially, substantially, or entirely seal the bladder
10 to ensure that urine in the bladder 10 is directed through the drainage lumen 140 and to
prevent leakage to the urethra 12. For a bladder catheter 116 including an 8 Fr to 24 Fr
elongated tube 138, the anchor 136 can be about 12 Fr to 32 Fr (e.g., having a diameter of
about 4 mm to about 10.7 mm) in the deployed state, and preferably between about 24 Fr
and 30 Fr. A 24 Fr anchor has a diameter of about 8 mm. It is believed that a 24 Fr anchor
136 would be a single size suitable for all or most patients. For a catheter 116 with a 24 Fr
anchor 136, a suitable length of the anchor 136 is between about 1.0 cm and 2.3 cm, and
preferably about 1.9 cm (about 0.75 in).
         Exemplary bladderanchor structures:
[00245]     With specific reference to FIGS. 1, 12A, and 13, an exemplary bladder anchor
136 in the form of an expandable balloon 144 is illustrated. The expandable (e.g., inflatable)
balloon 144 can be, for example, a spherical balloon of a Foley catheter. The balloon 144
can be about 1.0 cm to 2.3 cm in diameter, and preferably about 1.9 cm (0.75 in) in diameter.
The balloon 144 is preferably formed from a flexible material including, for example,
biocompatible polymers, polyvinyl chloride, polytetrafluoroethylene             (PTFE) such as
Teflon@, silicon coated latex, or silicon.
[00246]     The balloon 144 is in fluid connection with an inflation lumen 146, and is inflated
by introducing fluid into the balloon 144. In a deployed state, the balloon 144 can be a
substantially spherical structure mounted to and extending radially outward from the catheter
tube 138 of the bladder catheter 116 and comprising a central cavity or channel for the
catheter tube 138 to pass through. In some examples, the catheter tube 138 extends through
the cavity defined by the balloon 144, such that the open distal end 148 of the catheter tube
138 extends distally beyond the balloon 144 and toward the center of the bladder 10 (shown
in FIG. 1). Excess urine collected in the bladder 10 can be drawn into the drainage lumen
 140 through the distal open end 148 thereof.
[00247]     As shown in FIGS. 1 and 12A, in one example, the ureteral catheters 112, 114
extend from the open distal end 148 of the drainage lumen 140. In another example, as
                                               44

shown in FIG. 14, the ureteral catheters 112, 114 extend through ports 172 or openings
disposed on a sidewall of the catheter tube 138 at a position distal to the balloon 144. The
ports 172 can be circular or oval shaped. The ports 172 are sized to receive the ureteral
catheters 112, 114 and, accordingly, can have a diameter ranging from about 0.33 mm to
about 3 mm. As shown in FIG. 13, in another example, the bladder catheter 116 is positioned
next to the balloon 144, rather than extending through a central cavity defined by the balloon
144. As in other examples, the ureteral catheters 112, 114 extend through ports 172 in the
sidewall of the bladder catheter 116 and into the bladder 10.
[00248]     With reference to FIG. 12B, a cross-sectional view of the bladder catheter 116
and ureteral catheter(s) 112, 114 is shown. As shown in FIG. 12B, in one example, the
bladder catheter 116 comprises a dual lumen catheter with the drainage lumen 140 at a
central region thereof and a smaller inflation lumen 146 extending along the periphery of the
catheter tube 138. The ureteral catheters 112, 114 are inserted or enclosed in the central
drainage lumen 140. The ureteral catheters 112, 114 are single-lumen catheters having a
sufficiently narrow cross section to fit within the drainage lumen 140. In some examples, as
discussed above, the ureteral catheters 112, 114 extend through the entire bladder catheter
116. In other examples, the ureteral catheters 112, 114 terminate in the drainage lumen 140
of the bladder catheter 116, either at a position in the patient's ureter 12 or in an external
portion of the drainage lumen 140. As shown in FIG. 12C, in another example, a bladder
catheter 1 16a is a multi-lumen catheter that defines at least four lumens, namely a first lumen
112a for conducting fluid from the first ureteral catheter 112 (shown in FIG. 1), a second
lumen 1 14a for conducting fluid from the second ureteral catheter 114 (shown in FIG. 1), a
third lumen 140a for drainage of urine from the bladder 10 (shown in FIG. 1), and the
inflation lumen 146a for conducting fluid to and from the balloon 144 (shown in FIG. 12A)
for inflation and retraction thereof.
[00249]     As shown in FIG. 15, another example of a catheter balloon 144 for use with a
urine collection assembly 100 is illustrated. In the example of FIG. 15, the balloon 144 is
configured to be positioned partially within the patient's bladder 10 and partially within the
urethra 12 to provide an enhanced bladder seal. A central portion 145 of the balloon 144 is
configured to be radially contracted by the urethral opening 18, thereby defining a bulbous
upper volume configured to be positioned in the lower portion of the bladder 10 and a
bulbous lower volume configured to be position at the distal portion of the urethra 12. As
in previously-described examples, the bladder catheter 116 extends through a central cavity
                                               45

defined by the balloon 144 and toward a central portion of the bladder 10 and includes
drainage ports 142 for conducting urine from the bladder 10 through a drainage lumen 140
of the catheter 116. The drainage ports 142 can be generally circular or oval shaped and can
have a diameter of about 0.005 mm to about 0.5 mm.
[00250]     With reference again to FIGS. 9A and 9B, another example of a urine collection
assembly 100 including a bladder anchor device 134 is illustrated.       The bladder anchor
device 134 comprises a bladder catheter 116 defining a drainage lumen 140, an inflation
lumen 146, and an anchor 136, namely, another example of an expandable balloon 144,
configured to be seated in a lower portion of the bladder 10. Unlike in the previously
described examples, the ports 142 configured to receive the ureteral catheters 112, 114 are
disposed proximal to and/or below the balloon 144. The ureteral catheters 112, 114 extend
from the ports 142 and, as in previously-described examples, extend through the ureteral
orifices or openings of the bladder and into the ureters. When the anchor 136 is deployed in
the bladder, the ports 142 are disposed in a lower portion of the bladder adjacent to the
urethral opening. The ureteral catheters 112, 114 extend from the ports 172 and between a
lower portion of the balloon 144 and the bladder wall. In some examples, the catheters 112,
114 may be positioned to prevent the balloon 144 and/or bladder wall from occluding the
ports 142 so that excess urine collected in the bladder can be drawn into the ports 142 to be
removed from the body.
[00251]     With reference again to FIGS. IOA and 10B, in another example of a urine
collection assembly 200, an expandable cage 210 anchors the assembly 200 in the bladder.
The expandable cage 210 comprises a plurality of flexible members 212 or tines extending
longitudinally and radially outward from a catheter body 238 of a bladder catheter 216
which, in some examples, can be similar to those discussed above with respect to the
retention portion of the ureteral catheter of FIG. 8. The members 212 can be formed from a
suitable elastic and shape memory material such as nitinol. In a deployed position, the
members 212 or tines are imparted with a sufficient curvature to define a spherical or
ellipsoid central cavity 242. The cage 210 is attached to an open distal open end 248 of the
catheter tube or body 238, to allow access to a drainage lumen 240 defined by the tube or
body 238. The cage 210 is sized for positioning within the lower portion of the bladder and
can define a diameter and length ranging from 1.0 cm to 2.3 cm, and preferably about 1.9
cm (0.75 in).
                                               46

[00252]     In some examples, the cage 210 further comprises a shield or cover 214 over
distal portions of the cage 210 to prevent or reduce the likelihood that tissue, namely, the
distal wall of the bladder, will be caught or pinched as a result of contact with the cage 210
or member 212. More specifically, as the bladder contracts, the inner distal wall of the
bladder comes into contact with the distal side of the cage 210. The cover 214 prevents the
tissue from being pinched or caught, may reduce patient discomfort, and protect the device
during use. The cover 214 can be formed at least in part from a porous and/or permeable
biocompatible material, such as a woven polymer mesh. In some examples, the cover 214
encloses all or substantially all of the cavity 242. In that case, the cover 214 defines openings
suitable for receiving the ureteral catheters 112, 114.       In some examples, the cover 214
covers only about the distal 2/3, about the distal half, or about the distal third portion or any
amount, of the cage 210. In that case, the ureteral catheters 112, 114 pass through the
uncovered portion of the cage 210.
[00253]     The cage 210 and cover 214 are transitionable from a contracted position, in
which the members 212 are contracted tightly together around a central portion and/or
around the bladder catheter 116 to permit insertion through a catheter or sheath to the
deployed position. For example, in the case of a cage 210 constructed from a shape memory
material, the cage 210 can be configured to transition to the deployed position when it is
warmed to a sufficient temperature, such as body temperature (e.g., 37C). In the deployed
position, the cage 210 has a diameter D that is preferably wider than the urethral opening,
such that the cage 210 provides support for the ureteral catheters 112, 114 and prevents
patient motion from translating through the ureteral catheters 112, 114 to the ureters. When
the assembly 200 is deployed in the urinary tract, the ureteral catheter(s) 112, 114 extend
from the open distal end 248 of the bladder catheter 216, past the longitudinally extending
members 212 of the cage 210, and into the bladder. Advantageously, the open (e.g., low
profile) arrangement of the members 212 or tines facilitates manipulation of the ureteral
catheters 112, 114 from the bladder catheter 116 and through the bladder. Particularly, the
open arrangement of the members 212 or tines does not obstruct or occlude the distal opening
248 and/or drainage ports of the bladder catheter 216, making manipulation of the catheters
112, 114 easier to perform.
[00254]     With reference to FIG. 16, a portion of another example of a urine collection
assembly 100b is illustrated. The urine collection assembly 100b comprises a first ureteral
catheter 112b and a second ureteral catheter 114b. The assembly 100b does not comprise a
                                                 47

separate bladder drainage catheter as is provided in the previously-described examples.
Instead, one of the ureteral catheters 112b comprises a helical portion 127b formed in the
middle portion of the catheter 112b (e.g., the portion of the catheter configured to be
positioned in a lower portion of the patient's bladder). The helical portion 127b comprises
at least one and preferably two or more coils 176b. The coils 176b can be formed by bending
a catheter tube 138b to impart a desired coil configuration. A lower coil 178b of the helical
portion 127b is configured to be seated against and/or adjacent to the urethral opening.
Desirably, the helical portion 127b has a diameter D that is larger than the urethral opening
to prevent the helical portion 127b from being drawn into the urethra. In some examples, a
port 142b or opening is disposed in the sidewall of the catheter tube 138b for connecting the
first ureteral catheter 112b to the second ureteral catheter 114b. For example, the second
catheter 114b can be inserted in the port 142b to form a fluid connection between the first
ureteral catheter 112b and the second ureteral catheter 114b. In some examples, the second
catheter I14b terminates at a position just inside a drainage lumen 140b of the first catheter
112b.    In other examples, the second ureteral catheter 114b is threaded through and/or
extends along the length of the drainage lumen 140b of the first catheter 112b, but is not in
fluid communication with the drainage lumen 140b.
[00255]     With reference again to FIGS. I A and 11B, another exemplary urine collection
assembly 100 comprising a bladder anchor device 134 is illustrated. The assembly 100
includes ureteral catheters 112, 114 and a separate bladder catheter 116. More specifically,
as in previously-described examples, the assembly 100 includes the ureteral catheters 112,
 114, each of which comprise a distal portion 118 positioned in or adjacent to the right kidney
and the left kidney, respectively.    The ureteral catheters 112, 114 comprise indwelling
portions 118, 126, 128 extending through the ureters, bladder, and urethra. The ureteral
catheters 112, 114 further comprise an external portion 170 extending from the patient's
urethra 12 to a pump assembly for imparting negative pressure to the renal pelvis and/or
kidneys. The assembly 100 also includes a bladder anchor device 134 comprising a bladder
catheter 116 and an anchor 136 (e.g., a Foley catheter) deployed in the bladder to prevent or
reduce effects of patient motion from being translated to the ureteral catheters 112, 114
and/or ureters. The bladder catheter 116 extends from the bladder 10, through the urethra,
and to a fluid collection container for fluid collection by gravity or negative pressure
drainage. In some examples, an external portion of the tubing extending between a collection
vessel 712 and a pump 710 (shown in FIG. 19) can comprise one or more filters for
                                              48

preventing urine and/or particulates from entering the pump. As in previously-described
examples, the bladder catheter 116 is provided to drain excess urine left in the patient's
bladder during catheter placement.
        Exemplary connectors and clamps:
[00256]     With reference to FIGS. 1, 11A, and 17A-17C, the assembly 100 further
comprises a manifold or connector 150 for joining the two or more of the catheters 112, 114,
116 at a position outside the patient's body. In some examples, the connector 150 can be a
clamp, manifold, valve, fastener, or other element of a fluid path set, as is known in the art,
for joining a catheter to external flexible tubing. As shown in FIGS. 17A and 17B, the
manifold or connector 150 comprises a two-piece body comprising an inner portion 151
mounted inside an outer housing 153. The inner portion 151 defines channels for conducting
fluid between inflow ports 154, 155 and an outflow port 158. The inflow port(s) 154, 155
can comprise threaded sockets 157 configured to receive proximal portions of the catheters
112, 114. Desirably, the sockets 157 are a suitable size to securely receive and hold flexible
tubing sized between 1 Fr and 9 Fr. Generally, a user cinches the sockets 157 around the
respective catheter tubes 122 by spinning the socket 157 into the ports 154, 155 in the
direction of arrow Al (shown in FIG. 17B).
[00257]     Once the catheters 112, 114 are mounted to the connector 150, urine entering the
connector 150 through the vacuum inflow ports 154, 155 is directed through a fluid conduit
in the direction of arrow A2 (shown in FIG. 17B) to the vacuum outflow port 158. The
vacuum outflow port 158 can be connected to the fluid collection container 712 and/or pump
assembly 710 (shown in FIG. 19) by, for example, flexible tubing 166 defining a fluid flow
path.
[00258]     With specific reference to FIG. 17C, another exemplary connector 150 can be
configured to connect three or more catheters 112, 114, 116 to outflow ports 158, 162. The
connector 150 can comprise a structure or body having a distal side 152 comprising two or
more vacuum inflow ports 154, 155 configured to be connected to proximal ends of the
ureteral catheters 112, 114, and a separate gravity drainage port 156 configured to connect
to the proximal end of the bladder catheter 116. The vacuum ports 154, 155 and/or proximal
ends of the ureteral catheters 112, 114 can comprise a specific configuration to ensure that
the ureteral catheters 112, 114 are connected to the vacuum source and not to some other
fluid collection assembly. Similarly, the gravity drainage port 156 and/or proximal end of
the bladder catheter 116 can comprise another connector configuration to ensure that the
                                              49

bladder catheter 116 and not one of the ureteral catheters 112, 114 is permitted to drain by
gravity drainage. In other examples, the ports 154, 155, 156 and/or proximal ends of the
catheters 112, 114, 116 can include visual indicia to assist in correctly setting up the fluid
collection system.
[00259]     In some examples, urine received in the vacuum ports 154, 155 can be directed
through a Y-shaped conduit to a single vacuum outflow port 158 located on a proximal side
160 of the connector 150. As in previously-described examples, the vacuum outflow port
 158 can be connected to the fluid collection container 712 and/or pump 710 by suitable
flexible tubing or other conduits for drawing urine from the body and for inducing negative
pressure in the ureters and/or kidneys.     In some examples, the outflow port 156 and/or
connector 150 can be configured to attach only to vacuum sources or pumps operating within
a predetermined pressure range or power level to prevent exposing the ureteral catheters 112,
114 to elevated levels or intensity of negative pressure.     The proximal side 160 of the
connector 150 can also comprise a gravity outflow port 162 in fluid communication with the
inflow port 156. The gravity outflow port 162 can be configured to be connected directly to
the urine collection container 712 for urine collection by gravity drainage.
[00260]     With continued reference to FIG. 17C, in some examples, in order to facilitate
system setup and implementation, the vacuum outflow port 158 and the gravity outflow port
162 are disposed in close proximity so that a single socket 164, bracket, or connector can be
coupled to the connector 150 to establish fluid communication with each port 158, 162. The
single socket or connector can be coupled to a multi-conduit hose or tube (e.g., flexible
tubing 166) having a first conduit in fluid communication with the pump 710 and a second
conduit in fluid communication with the collection container 712. Accordingly, a user can
easily set up the external fluid collection system by inserting the single socket 164 in the
connector 150 and connecting the respective conduits to one of the fluid collection container
712 and pump 710 (shown in FIG. 19). In other examples, a length of flexible tubing 166 is
connected between the urine collection container 712 and the gravity outflow port 162, and
a separate length of flexible tubing is connected between the pump 710 and the vacuum
outflow port 158.
        Exenplary'fluid sensors:
[00261]     With reference again to FIG. 1, in some examples, the assembly 100 further
comprises sensors 174 for monitoring fluid characteristics of urine being collected from the
ureters 6, 8 and/or bladder 10. As discussed herein in connection with FIG. 19, information
                                              50

obtained from the sensors 174 can be transmitted to a central data collection module or
processor and used, for example, to control operation of an external device, such as the pump
710 (shown in FIG. 19). The sensors 174 can be integrally formed with one or more of the
catheters 112, 114, 116 such as, for example, embedded in a wall of the catheter body or
tube and in fluid communication with drainage lumens 124, 140. In other examples, one or
more of the sensors 174 can be positioned in a fluid collection container 712 (shown in FIG.
19) or in internal circuitry of an external device, such as the pump 710.
[00262]     Exemplary sensors 174 that can be used with the urine collection assembly 100
can comprise one or more of the following sensor types. For example, the catheter assembly
 100 can comprise a conductance sensor or electrode that samples conductivity of urine. The
normal conductance of human urine is about 5-10 mS/m.              Urine having a conductance
outside of the expected range can indicate that the patient is experiencing a physiological
problem, which requires further treatment or analysis. The catheter assembly 100 can also
comprise a flow meter for measuring a flow rate of urine through the catheter(s) 112, 114,
 116. Flow rate can be used to determine a total volume of fluid excreted from the body. The
catheter(s) 112, 114, 116 can also comprise a thermometer for measuring urine temperature.
Urine temperature can be used to collaborate the conductance sensor. Urine temperature can
also be used for monitoring purposes, as urine temperature outside of a physiologically
normal range can be indicative of certain physiological conditions.
Method of insertion of a urine collection assembly:
[00263]     Having described the urine collection assembly 100 including the ureteral
catheter retention portions and bladder anchor device (e.g., a standard or modified Foley
type catheter), methods for insertion and deployment of the assemblies will now be discussed
in detail.
[00264]     With reference to FIG. 18A, steps for positioning a fluid collection assembly in
a patient's body and, optionally, for inducing negative pressure in a patient's ureter and/or
kidneys are illustrated. As shown at box 610, a medical professional or caregiver inserts a
flexible or rigid cystoscope through the patient's urethra and into the bladder to obtain
visualization of the ureteral orifices or openings. Once suitable visualization is obtained, as
shown at box 612, a guidewire is advanced through the urethra, bladder, ureteral opening,
ureter, and to a desired fluid collection position, such as the renal pelvis of the kidney. Once
the guidewire is advanced to the desired fluid collection position, a ureteral catheter of the
present invention (examples of which are discussed in detail above) is inserted over the
                                                51

guidewire to the fluid collection position, as shown at box 614. In some examples, the
location of the ureteral catheter can be confirmed by fluoroscopy, as shown at box 616. Once
the position of the distal end of the catheter is confirmed, as shown at box 618, the retention
portion of the ureteral catheter can be deployed. For example, the guidewire can be removed
from the catheter, thereby allowing the distal end and/or retention portion to transition to a
deployed position. In some examples, the deployed distal end portion of the catheter does
not entirely occlude the ureter and/or renal pelvis, such that urine is permitted to pass outside
the catheter and through the ureters into the bladder. Since moving the catheter can exert
forces against urinary tract tissues, avoiding complete blockage of the ureters avoids
application of force to the ureter sidewalls, which may cause injury.
[00265]      After the ureteral catheter is in place and deployed, the same guidewire can be
used to position a second ureteral catheter in the other ureter and/or kidney using the same
insertion and positioning methods described herein. For example, the cystoscope can be
used to obtain visualization of the other ureteral opening in the bladder, and the guidewire
can be advanced through the visualized ureteral opening to a fluid collection position in the
other ureter. A catheter can be drawn alongside the guidewire and deployed in the manner
described herein.     Alternatively, the cystoscope and guidewire can be removed from the
body. The cystoscope can be reinserted into the bladder over the first ureteral catheter. The
cystoscope is used, in the manner described above, to obtain visualization of the ureteral
opening and to assist in advancing a second guidewire to the second ureter and/or kidney for
positioning of the second ureteral catheter. Once the ureteral catheters are in place, in some
examples, the guidewire and cystoscope are removed. In other examples, the cystoscope
and/or guidewire can remain in the bladder to assist with placement of the bladder catheter.
[00266]      Optionally, a bladder catheter can also be used. Once the ureteral catheters are
in place, as shown at box 620, the medical professional or caregiver can insert a distal end
of a bladder catheter in a collapsed or contracted state through the urethra of the patient and
into the bladder. The bladder catheter can be a conventional Foley bladder catheter or a
bladder catheter of the present invention as discussed in detail above. Once inserted in the
bladder, as shown at box 622, an anchor connected to and/or associated with the bladder
catheter is expanded to a deployed position. For example, when an expandable or inflatable
catheter is used, fluid may be directed through an inflation lumen of the bladder catheter to
expand a balloon structure located in the patient's bladder. In some examples, the bladder
catheter is inserted through the urethra and into the bladder without using a guidewire and/or
                                                52

cystoscope. In other examples, the bladder catheter is inserted over the same guidewire used
to position the ureteral catheters. Accordingly, when inserted in this manner, the ureteral
catheters can be arranged to extend from the distal end of the bladder catheter and,
optionally, proximal ends of the ureteral catheters can be arranged to terminate in a drainage
lumen of the bladder catheter.
[00267]      In some examples, the urine is permitted to drain by gravity from the urethra. In
other examples, a negative pressure is induced in the ureteral catheter and/or bladder catheter
to facilitate drainage of the urine.
[00268]      With reference to FIG. 18B, steps for using the urine collection assembly for
inducement of negative pressure in the ureter(s) and/or kidney(s) are illustrated. As shown
at box 624, after the indwelling portions of the bladder and/or ureteral catheters are correctly
positioned and anchoring/retention structures are deployed, the external proximal ends of
the catheter(s) are connected to fluid collection or pump assemblies.        For example, the
ureteral catheter(s) can be connected to a pump for inducing negative pressure at the patient's
renal pelvis and/or kidney.     In a similar manner, the bladder catheter can be connected
directly to a urine collection container for gravity drainage of urine from the bladder or
connected to a pump for inducing negative pressure at the bladder.
[00269]      Once the catheter(s) and pump assembly are connected, negative pressure is
applied to the renal pelvis and/or kidney and/or bladder through the drainage lumens of the
ureteral catheters and/or bladder catheter, as shown at box 626. The negative pressure is
intended to counter congestion mediated interstitial hydrostatic pressures due to elevated
intra-abdominal pressure and consequential or elevated renal venous pressure or renal
lymphatic pressure. The applied negative pressure is therefore capable of increasing flow of
filtrate through the medullary tubules and of decreasing water and sodium re-absorption.
[00270]      In some examples, mechanical stimulation can be provided to portions of the
ureters and/or renal pelvis to supplement or modify therapeutic affects obtained by
application of negative pressure.    For example, mechanical stimulation devices, such as
linear actuators and other known devices for providing, for example, vibration waves,
disposed in distal portions of the ureteral catheter(s) can be actuated. While not intending
to be bound by theory, it is believed that such stimulation effects adjacent tissues by, for
example, stimulating nerves and/or actuating peristaltic muscles associated with the ureter(s)
and/or renal pelvis. Stimulation of nerves and activation of muscles may produce changes
in pressure gradients or pressure levels in surrounding tissues and organs which may
                                               53

contribute to or, in some cases, enhance therapeutic benefits of negative pressure therapy.
In some examples, the mechanical stimulation can comprise pulsating stimulation. In other
examples, low levels of mechanical stimulation can be provided continuously as negative
pressure is being provided through the ureteral catheter(s).      In other examples, inflatable
portions of the ureteral catheter could be inflated and deflated in a pulsating manner to
stimulate adjacent nerve and muscle tissue, in a similar manner to actuation of the
mechanical stimulation devices described herein.
[00271]     As a result of the applied negative pressure, as shown at box 628, urine is drawn
into the catheter at the plurality of drainage ports at the distal end thereof, through the
drainage lumen of the catheter, and to a fluid collection container for disposal. As the urine
is being drawn to the collection container, at box 630, sensors disposed in the fluid collection
system provide a number of measurements about the urine that can be used to assess the
volume of urine collected, as well as information about the physical condition of the patient
and composition of the urine produced. In some examples, the information obtained by the
sensors is processed, as shown at box 632, by a processor associated with the pump and/or
with another patient monitoring device and, at box 634, is displayed to the user via a visual
display of an associated feedback device.
Exemplary fluid collection system:
[00272]     Having described an exemplary urine collection assembly and method of
positioning such an assembly in the patient's body, with reference to FIG. 19, a system 700
for inducing negative pressure to a patient's ureter(s) and/or kidney(s) will now be described.
The system 700 can comprise the ureteral catheter(s), bladder catheter or the urine collection
assembly 100 described hereinabove.        As shown in FIG. 19, ureteral catheters 112, 114
and/or the bladder catheter 116 of the assembly 100 are connected to one or more fluid
collection containers 712 for collecting urine drawn from the renal pelvis and/or bladder. In
some examples, the bladder catheter 116 and the ureteral catheters 112, 114 are connected
to different fluid collection containers 712. The fluid collection container 712 connected to
the ureteral catheter(s) 112, 114 can be in fluid communication with an external fluid pump
710 for generating negative pressure in the ureter(s) and kidney(s) through the ureteral
catheter(s) 112, 114.     As discussed herein, such negative pressure can be provided for
overcoming interstitial pressure and forming urine in the kidney or nephron.           In some
examples, a connection between the fluid collection container 712 and pump 710 can
comprise a fluid lock or fluid barrier to prevent air from entering the renal pelvis or kidney
                                               54

in case of incidental therapeutic or non-therapeutic pressure changes. For example, inflow
and outflow ports of the fluid container can be positioned below a fluid level in the container.
Accordingly, air is prevented from entering medical tubing or the catheter through either the
inflow or outflow ports of the fluid container 712. As discussed previously, external portions
of the tubing extending between the fluid collection container 712 and the pump 710 can
include one or more filters to prevent urine and/or particulates from entering the pump 710.
[00273]     As shown in FIG. 19, the system 700 further comprises a controller 714, such as
a microprocessor, electronically coupled to the pump 710 and having or associated with
computer readable memory 716. In some examples, the memory 716 comprises instructions
that, when executed, cause the controller 714 to receive information from sensors 174
located on or associated with portions of the assembly 100. Information about a condition
of the patient can be determined based on information from the sensors 174. Information
from the sensors 174 can also be used to determine and implement operating parameters for
the pump 710.
[00274]     In some examples, the controller 714 is incorporated in a separate and remote
electronic device in communication with the pump 710, such as a dedicated electronic
device, computer, tablet PC, or smart phone.        Alternatively, the controller 714 can be
included in the pump 710 and, for example, can control both a user interface for manually
operating the pump 710, as well as system functions such as receiving and processing
information from the sensors 174.
[00275]     The controller 714 is configured to receive information from the one or more
sensors 174 and to store the information in the associated computer-readable memory 716.
For example, the controller 714 can be configured to receive information from the sensor
174 at a predetermined rate, such as once every second, and to determine a conductance
based on the received information.        In some examples, the algorithm for calculating
conductance can also include other sensor measurements, such as urine temperature, to
obtain a more robust determination of conductance.
[00276]     The controller 714 can also be configured to calculate patient physical statistics
or diagnostic indicators that illustrate changes in the patient's condition over time. For
example, the system 700 can be configured to identify an amount of total sodium excreted.
The total sodium excreted may be based, for example, on a combination of flow rate and
conductance over a period of time.
                                               55

[00277]     With continued reference to FIG. 19, the system 700 can further comprise a
feedback device 720, such as a visual display or audio system, for providing information to
the user. In some examples, the feedback device 720 can be integrally formed with the pump
710. Alternatively, the feedback device 720 can be a separate dedicated or a multipurpose
electronic device, such as a computer, laptop computer, tablet PC, smart phone, or other
handheld electronic devices. The feedback device 720 is configured to receive the calculated
or determined measurements from the controller 714 and to present the received information
to a user via the feedback device 720. For example, the feedback device 720 may be
configured to display current negative pressure (in mmHg) being applied to the urinary tract.
In other examples, the feedback device 720 is configured to display current flow rate of
urine, temperature, current conductance in mS/m of urine, total urine produced during the
session, total sodium excreted during the session, other physical parameters, or any
combination thereof.
[00278]       In some examples, the feedback device 720 further comprises a user interface
module or component that allows the user to control operation of the pump 710.           For
example, the user can engage or turn off the pump 710 via the user interface. The user can
also adjust pressure applied by the pump 710 to achieve a greater magnitude or rate of
sodium excretion and fluid removal.
[00279]     Optionally, the feedback device 720 and/or pump 710 further comprise a data
transmitter 722 for sending information from the device 720 and/or pump 710 to other
electronic devices or computer networks. The data transmitter 722 can utilize a short-range
or long-range data communications protocol. An example of a short-range data transmission
protocol is Bluetooth@. Long-range data transmission networks include, for example, Wi
Fi or cellular networks.    The data transmitter 722 can send information to a patient's
physician or caregiver to inform the physician or caregiver about the patient's current
condition. Alternatively, or in addition, information can be sent from the data transmitter
722 to existing databases or information storage locations, such as, for example, to include
the recorded information in a patient's electronic health record (EHR).
[00280]     With reference to FIGS. 20A and 20B, an exemplary pump 710 for use with the
system is illustrated. In some examples, the pump 710 is a micro-pump configured to draw
fluid from the catheter(s) 112, 114 (shown, for example, in FIG. 1) and having a sensitivity
or accuracy of about 10 mmHg or less. Desirably, the pump 710 is capable of providing a
range of flow of urine between 0.05 ml/min and 3 ml/min for extended periods of time, for
                                              56

example, for about 8 hours to about 24 hours per day, for one (1) to about 30 days or longer.
At 0.2 ml/min, it is anticipated that about 300 ml. of urine per day is collected by the system
700. The pump 710 can be configured to provide a negative pressure to the bladder of the
patient, the negative pressure ranging between about 0.1 mmHg and 50 mmHg or about 5
mmHg to about 20 mmHg (gauge pressure at the pump 710). For example, a micro-pump
manufactured by Langer Inc. (Model BT1OO-2J) can be used with the presently disclosed
system 700. Diaphragm aspirator pumps, as well as other types of commercially available
pumps, can also be used for this purpose. Peristaltic pumps can also be used with the system
700. In other examples, a piston pump, vacuum bottle, or manual vacuum source can be
used for providing negative pressure. In other examples, the system can be connected to a
wall suction source, as is available in a hospital, through a vacuum regulator for reducing
negative pressure to therapeutically appropriate levels.
[00281]     In some examples, the pump 710 is configured for extended use and, thus, is
capable of maintaining precise suction for extended periods of time, for example, for about
8 hours to about 24 hours per day, for 1 to about 30 days or longer. Further, in some
examples, the pump 710 is configured to be manually operated and, in that case, includes a
control panel 718 that allows a user to set a desired suction value. The pump 710 can also
include a controller or processor, which can be the same controller that operates the system
700 or can be a separate processor dedicated for operation of the pump 710. In either case,
the processor is configured for both receiving instructions for manual operation of the pump
and for automatically operating the pump 710 according to predetermined operating
parameters. Alternatively, or in addition, operation of the pump 710 can be controlled by
the processor based on feedback received from the plurality of sensors associated with the
catheter.
[00282]     In some examples, the processor is configured to cause the pump 710 to operate
intermittently. For example, the pump 710 may be configured to emit pulses of negative
pressure followed by periods in which no negative pressure is provided. In other examples,
the pump 710 can be configured to alternate between providing negative pressure and
positive pressure to produce an alternating flush and pump effect. For example, a positive
pressure of about 0.1 mmHg to 20 mmHg, and preferably about 5 mmHg to 20 mmHg can
be provided followed by a negative pressure ranging from about 0.1 mmHg to 50 mmHg.
Experimental examples:
                                               57

[00283]     Inducement of negative pressure within the renal pelvis of farm swine was
performed for the purpose of evaluating effects of negative pressure therapy on renal
congestion in the kidney.     An objective of these studies was to demonstrate whether a
negative pressure delivered into the renal pelvis significantly increases urine output in a
swine model of renal congestion. In Example 1, a pediatric Fogarty catheter, normally used
in embolectomy or bronchoscopy applications, was used in the swine model solely for proof
of principle for inducement of negative pressure in the renal pelvis. It is not suggested that
a Fogarty catheter be used in humans in clinical settings to avoid injury of urinary tract
tissues. In Example 2, the ureteral catheter 112 shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B, and including a
helical retention portion for mounting or maintaining a distal portion of the catheter in the
renal pelvis or kidney, was used.
Example I
         Method
[00284]     Four farm swine 800 were used for purposes of evaluating effects of negative
pressure therapy on renal congestion in the kidney. As shown in FIG. 21, pediatric Fogarty
catheters 812, 814 were inserted to the renal pelvis region 820, 821 of each kidney 802, 804
of the four swine 800. The catheters 812, 814 were deployed within the renal pelvis region
by inflating an expandable balloon to a size sufficient to seal the renal pelvis and to maintain
the position of the balloon within the renal pelvis. The catheters 812, 814 extend from the
renal pelvis 802, 804, through a bladder 810 and urethra 816, and to fluid collection
containers external to the swine.
[00285]     Urine output of two animals was collected for a 15 minute period to establish a
baseline for urine output volume and rate. Urine output of the right kidney 802 and the left
kidney 804 were measured individually and found to vary considerably.                 Creatinine
clearance values were also determined.
[00286]     Renal congestion (e.g., congestion or reduced blood flow in the veins of the
kidney) was induced in the right kidney 802 and the left kidney 804 of the animal 800 by
partially occluding the inferior vena cava (IVC) with an inflatable balloon catheter 850 just
above to the renal vein outflow.     Pressure sensors were used to measure IVC pressure.
Normal IVC pressures were 1-4 mmHg. By inflating the balloon of the catheter 850 to
approximately three quarters of the IVC diameter, the IVC pressures were elevated to
between 15-25 mmHg. Inflation of the balloon to approximately three quarters of IVC
                                              58

diameter resulted in a 50-85% reduction in urine output. Full occlusion generated IVC
pressures above 28 mmHg and was associated with at least a 95% reduction in urine output.
[00287]    One kidney of each animal 800 was not treated and served as a control ("the
control kidney 802"). The ureteral catheter 812 extending from the control kidney was
connected to a fluid collection container 819 for determining fluid levels. One kidney ("the
treated kidney 804") of each animal was treated with negative pressure from a negative
pressure source (e.g., a therapy pump 818 in combination with a regulator designed to more
accurately control the low magnitude of negative pressures) connected to the ureteral
catheter 814. The pump 818 was an Air Cadet Vacuum Pump from Cole-Parmer Instrument
Company (Model No. EW-07530-85).           The pump 818 was connected in series to the
regulator. The regulator was an V-800 Series Miniature Precision Vacuum Regulator - 1/8
NPT Ports (Model No. V-800-10-W/K), manufactured by Airtrol Components Inc.
[00288]    The pump 818 was actuated to induce negative pressure within the renal pelvis
820, 821 of the treated kidney according to the following protocol.       First, the effect of
negative pressure was investigated in the normal state (e.g., without inflating the IVC
balloon). Four different pressure levels (-2, -10, -15, and -20 mmHg) were applied for 15
minutes each and the rate of urine produced and creatinine clearance were determined.
Pressure levels were controlled and determined at the regulator. Following the -20 mmHg
therapy, the IVC balloon was inflated to increase the pressure by 15-20 mmHg. The same
four negative pressure levels were applied. Urine output rate and creatinine clearance rate
for the congested control kidney 802 and treated kidney 804 were obtained. The animals
800 were subject to congestion by partial occlusion of the IVC for 90 minutes. Treatment
was provided for 60 minutes of the 90 minute congestion period.
[00289]    Following collection of urine output and creatinine clearance data, kidneys from
one animal were subjected to gross examination then fixed in a 10% neutral buffered
formalin. Following gross examination, histological sections were obtained, examined, and
magnified images of the sections were captured. The sections were examined using an
upright Olympus BX41 light microscope and images were captured using an Olympus DP25
digital camera. Specifically, photomicrograph images of the sampled tissues were obtained
at low magnification (20x original magnification) and high magnification (100x original
magnification). The obtained images were subjected to histological evaluation. The purpose
of the evaluation was to examine the tissue histologically and to qualitatively characterize
congestion and tubular degeneration for the obtained samples.
                                             59

[00290]     Surface mapping analysis was also performed on obtained slides of the kidney
tissue. Specifically, the samples were stained and analyzed to evaluate differences in size of
tubules for treated and untreated kidneys. Image processing techniques calculated a number
and/or relative percentage of pixels with different coloration in the stained images.
Calculated measurement data was used to determine volumes of different anatomical
structures.
        Results
                Urine output and creatinine clearance
[00291]     Urine output rates were highly variable.    Three sources of variation in urine
output rate were observed during the study.        The inter-individual and hemodynamic
variability were anticipated sources of variability known in the art. A third source of
variation in urine output, upon information and belief believed to be previously unknown,
was identified in the experiments discussed herein, namely, contralateral intra-individual
variability in urine output.
[00292]     Baseline urine output rates were 0.79 ml/min for one kidney and 1.07 ml/min for
the other kidney (e.g., a 26% difference). The urine output rate is a mean rate calculated
from urine output rates for each animal.
[00293]     When congestion was provided by inflating the IVC balloon, the treated kidney
urine output dropped from 0.79 ml/min to 0.12 ml/min (15.2% of baseline). In comparison,
the control kidney urine output rate during congestion dropped from 1.07 ml/min to 0.09
ml/min (8.4% of baseline). Based on urine output rates, a relative increase in treated kidney
urine output compared to control kidney urine output was calculated, according to the
following equation:
         (Therapy Treated/Baseline Treated) / (Therapy Control / Baseline
        Control) = Relative increase
        (0.12 ml/nin /0.79 mI/rmin) / (0.09 il/nin /1.07 nl/inin)
        = 180.6%
[00294]     Thus, the relative increase in treated kidney urine output rate was 180.6%
compared to control. This result shows a greater magnitude of decrease in urine production
caused by congestion on the control side when compared to the treatment side. Presenting
results as a relative percentage difference in urine output adjusts for differences in urine
output between kidneys.
                                              60

[00295]     Creatinine clearance measurements for baseline, congested, and treated portions
for one of the animals are shown in FIG. 22.
                 Gross examination and histological evaluation
[00296]     Based on gross examination of the control kidney (right kidney) and treated
kidney (left kidney), it was determined that the control kidney had a uniformly dark red
brown color, which corresponds with more congestion in the control kidney compared to the
treated kidney. Qualitative evaluation of the magnified section images also noted increased
congestion in the control kidney compared to the treated kidney. Specifically, as shown in
Table 1, the treated kidney exhibited lower levels of congestion and tubular degeneration
compared to the control kidney. The following qualitative scale was used for evaluation of
the obtained slides.
            Congestion
                     Lesion                                  Score
                    None:                                       0
                     Mild:                                       1
                     Moderate:                                  2
                     Marked:                                    3
                     Severe:                                    4
            Tubular degeneration
                     Lesion                                  Score
                    None:                                       0
                     Mild:                                       1
                     Moderate:                                  2
                     Marked:                                    3
                     Severe:                                    4
                                           Table 1
    TABULATED RESULTS
                                          Slide                    Histologic lesions
        Animal ID/Organ/Gross lesion     number       Congestion         Tubular      Granulomas
                                                                      hyalne casts
     6343/Left Kidney/Normal           R16-513-1           1                 1            0
     6343/Left Kidney/Normial with     R16-513-2           1                 1            0
     hemorrhagic streak
     6343/Right Kidney/Congestion      R16-513-3          2                  2            1
     6343/Right Kidney/Congestion      R16-513-4          2                  1            1
[00297]     As shown in Table 1, the treated kidney (left kidney) exhibited only mild
congestion and tubular degeneration. In contrast, the control kidney (right kidney) exhibited
moderate congestion and tubular degeneration. These results were obtained by analysis of
the slides discussed below.
                                              61

[00298]     FIGS. 23A and 23B are low and high magnification photomicrographs of the left
kidney (treated with negative pressure) of the animal. Based on the histological review, mild
congestion in the blood vessels at the corticomedullary junction was identified, as indicated
by the arrows. As shown in FIG. 23B, a single tubule with a hyaline cast (as identified by
the asterisk) was identified.
[00299]     FIGS. 23C and 23D are low and high resolution photomicrographs of the control
kidney (right kidney). Based on the histological review, moderate congestion in the blood
vessel at the corticomedullary junction was identified, as shown by the arrows in FIG. 23C.
As shown in FIG. 23D, several tubules with hyaline casts were present in the tissue sample
(as identified by asterisks in the image). Presence of a substantial number of hyaline casts
is evidence of hypoxia.
[00300]     Surface mapping analysis provided the following results. The treated kidney was
determined to have 1.5 times greater fluid volume in Bowman's space and 2 times greater
fluid volume in tubule lumen. Increased fluid volume in Bowman's space and the tubule
lumen corresponds to increased urine output. In addition, the treated kidney was determined
to have 5 times less blood volume in capillaries compared to the control kidney.            The
increased volume in the treated kidney appears to be a result of (1) a decrease in individual
capillary size compared to the control and (2) an increase in the number of capillaries without
visible red blood cells in the treated kidney compared to the control kidney, an indicator of
less congestion in the treated organ.
         Summary
[00301]     These results indicate that the control kidney had more congestion and more
tubules with intraluminal hyaline casts, which represent protein-rich intraluminal material,
compared to the treated kidney. Accordingly, the treated kidney exhibits a lower degree of
loss of renal function. While not intending to be bound by theory, it is believed that as severe
congestion develops in the kidney, hypoxemia of the organ follows. Hypoxemia interferes
with oxidative phosphorylation within the organ (e.g., ATP production). Loss of ATP and/or
a decrease in ATP production inhibits the active transport of proteins causing intraluminal
protein content to increase, which manifests as hyaline casts. The number of renal tubules
with intraluminal hyaline casts correlates with the degree of loss of renal function.
Accordingly, the reduced number of tubules in the treated left kidney is believed to be
physiologically significant. While not intending to be bound by theory, it is believed that
                                              62

these results show that damage to the kidney can be prevented or inhibited by applying
negative pressure to a catheter inserted into the renal pelvis to facilitate urine output.
Example 2
        Method
[00302]     Four (4) farm swine (A, B, C, D) were sedated and anesthetized. Vitals for each
of the swine were monitored throughout the experiment and cardiac output was measured at
the end of each 30-minute phase of the study. Ureteral catheters, such as the ureteral catheter
112 shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B, were deployed in the renal pelvis region of the kidneys of
each of the swine. The deployed catheters were a 6 Fr catheter having an outer diameter of
2.0  0.1 mm. The catheters were 54  2 cm in length, not including the distal retention
portion. The retention portion was 16  2 mm in length. As shown in the catheter 112 in
FIGS. 2A and 2B, the retention portion included two full coils and one proximal half coil.
The outer diameter of the full coils, shown by line D1 in FIGS. 2A and 2B, was 18  2 mm.
The half coil diameter D2 was about 14 mm. The retention portion of the deployed ureteral
catheters included six drainage holes, plus an additional hole at the distal end of the catheter
tube. The diameter of each of the drainage holes was 0.83  0.01 mm. The distance between
adjacent drainage holes 132, specifically the linear distance between drainage holes when
the coils were straightened, was 22.5  2.5 mm.
[00303]     The ureteral catheters were positioned to extend from the renal pelvis of the
swine, through the bladder, and urethra, and to fluid collection containers external to each
swine. Following placement of the ureteral catheters, pressure sensors for measuring IVC
pressure were placed in the IVC at a position distal to the renal veins. An inflatable balloon
catheter, specifically a PTS@ percutaneous balloon catheter (30 mm diameter by 5 cm
length), manufactured by NuMED Inc. of Hopkinton, NY, was expanded in the IVC at a
position proximal to the renal veins. A thermodilution catheter, specifically a Swan-Ganz
thermodilution pulmonary artery catheter manufactured by Edwards Lifesciences Corp. of
Irvine, CA, was then placed in the pulmonary artery for the purpose of measuring cardiac
output.
[00304]     Initially, baseline urine output was measured for 30 minutes, and blood and urine
samples were collected for biochemical analysis. Following the 30-minute baseline period,
the balloon catheter was inflated to increase IVC pressure from a baseline pressure of 1-4
mmHg to an elevated congested pressure of about 20 mmHg (+/- 5 mmHg). A congestion
baseline was then collected for 30 minutes with corresponding blood and urine analysis.
                                               63

[00305]     At the end of the congestion period, the elevated congested IVC pressure was
maintained and negative pressure diuresis treatment was provided for swine A and swine C.
Specifically, the swine (A, C) were treated by applying a negative pressure of -25 mmHg
through the ureteral catheters with a pump. As in previously-discussed examples, the pump
was an Air Cadet Vacuum Pump from Cole-Parmer Instrument Company (Model No. EW
07530-85). The pump was connected in series to a regulator. The regulator was a V-800
Series Miniature Precision Vacuum Regulator - 1/8 NPT Ports (Model No. V-800-10-W/K),
manufactured by Airtrol Components Inc. The swine were observed for 120 minutes, as
treatment was provided. Blood and urine collection were performed every 30 minutes,
during the treatment period. Two of the swine (B, D) were treated as congested controls
(e.g., negative pressure was not applied to the renal pelvis through the ureteral catheters),
meaning that the two swine (B, D) did not receive negative pressure diuresis therapy.
[00306]     Following collection of urine output and creatinine clearance data for the 120
minute treatment period, the animals were sacrificed and kidneys from each animal were
subjected to gross examination. Following gross examination, histological sections were
obtained and examined, and magnified images of the sections were captured.
        Results
[00307]     Measurements collected during the Baseline, Congestion, and Treatment periods
are provided in Table 2. Specifically, urine output, serum creatinine, and urinary creatinine
measurements were obtained for each time period. These values allow for the calculation of
a measured creatinine clearance as follows:
       CreatinineClearance:CrCl
                         Urine Output (mi/mmn)       * Urinary Creatinine(mg/dl)
                                                        Serum Creatinine(mg/dl)
In addition, Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) values were measured from
serum samples obtained for each time period and Kidney Injury Molecule I (KIM-1) values
were measured from the urine samples obtained for each time period.               Qualitative
histological findings determined from review of the obtained histological sections are also
included in Table 2.
                                             64

                                            Table 2
  Animal                                A                B              C             D
  Treatment assignment             Treatment        Control      Treatment        Control
  Baseline:
  Urine output (mi/mi)                 3.01            2.63           0.47           0.98
  Serum creatinine (mg/dl)              0.8             0.9            3.2            1.0
  Creatinine clearance (ml/min)        261             172             5.4           46.8
  Serum NGAL (ng/ml)                    169              *             963            99
  Urinary KIM-1 (ng/ml)                4.11              *            3.59           1.16
  Congestion:
  Urine output (ml/min)             0.06 (2%)     0.53 (20%)      0.12 (25%)    0.24 (25%)
  Serum creatinine (mg/dl)         1.2 (150%)      1.1 (122%)     3.1 (97%)      1.2 (120%)
  Creatinine clearance (ml/min)    1.0 (0.4%)     30.8 (18%)       1.6 (21%)     16.2 (35%)
  Serum NGAL (ng/ml)               102 (60%)             *        809 (84%)     126 (127%)
  Urinary KIM-1 (ng/ml)           24.3 (591%)            *        2.2 (61%)     1.39 (120%)
  Treatment:
  Urine output (ml/min)            0.54 (17%)                    0.47 (101%)    0.35 (36%)
  Serum creatinine (mg/dI)         1.3 (163%)                     3.1 (97%)      1.7 (170%)
  Creatinine clearance (ml/min)    30.6 (12%)           **       18.3 (341%)     13.6 (29%)
  Serum NGAL (ng/ml)               197(117%)                          1104      208 (209%)
  Urinary KIM-1 (ng/ml)           260 (6326%)                       (115%)     233 (20000%)
                                                                 28.7 (799%)
  Histological findings:
  Blood volume in capillary           2.4%                            0.9%          4.0%
  space                            Mild/Mod             **           None           Mod
  Hyaline casts                    Mild/Mod                          None           Mod
  Degranulation
 Data are raw values (% baseline)
* not measured
** confounded by phenylephrine
[00308]      Animal A: The animal weighed 50.6 kg and had a baseline urine output rate of
3.01 ml/min, a baseline serum creatinine of 0.8 mg/dl, and a measured CrC1 of 261 ml/min.
It is noted that these measurements, aside from serum creatinine, were uncharacteristically
high relative to other animals studied. Congestion was associated with a 98% reduction in
urine output rate (0.06 ml/min) and a >99% reduction in CrC1 (1.0 ml/min). Treatment with
negative pressure applied through the ureteral catheters was associated with urine output and
CrCI of 17% and 12%, respectively, of baseline values, and 9x and >10x, respectively, of
congestion values. Levels of NGAL changed throughout the experiment, ranging from 68%
of baseline during congestion to 258% of baseline after 90 minutes of therapy. The final
value was 130% of baseline. Levels of KIM-1 were 6 times and 4 times of baseline for the
first two 30-minute windows after baseline assessment, before increasing to 68x, 52x, and
63x of baseline values, respectively, for the last three collection periods. The 2-hour serum
creatinine was 1.3 mg/dl. Histological examination revealed an overall congestion level,
                                               65

measured by blood volume in capillary space, of 2.4%. Histological examination also noted
several tubules with intraluminal hyaline casts and some degree of tubular epithelial
degeneration, a finding consistent with cellular damage.
[00309]    Animal B: The animal weighed 50.2 kg and had a baseline urine output rate of
2.62 ml/min and a measured CrCI of 172 ml/min (also higher than anticipated). Congestion
was associated with an 80% reduction in urine output rate (0.5 ml/min) and an 83% reduction
in CrCi (30 ml/min). At 50 minutes into the congestion (20 minutes after the congestion
baseline period), the animal experienced an abrupt drop in mean arterial pressure and
respiration rate, followed by tachycardia.     The anesthesiologist administered a dose of
phenylephrine (75 mg) to avert cardiogenic shock.            Phenylephrine is indicated for
intravenous administration when blood pressure drops below safe levels during anesthesia.
However, since the experiment was testing the impact of congestion on renal physiology,
administration of phenylephrine confounded the remainder of the experiment.
[00310]    Animal C: The animal weighed 39.8 kg and had a baseline urine output rate of
0.47 ml/min, a baseline serum creatinine of 3.2 mg/dl, and a measured CrC1 of 5.4 ml/min.
Congestion was associated with a 75% reduction in urine output (0.12 ml/min) and a 79%
reduction in CrCi (1.6 ml/min). It was determined that baseline NGAL levels were >5x the
upper limit of normal (ULN). Treatment with negative pressure applied to the renal pelvis
through the ureteral catheters was associated with a normalization of urine output (101% of
baseline) and a 341% improvement in CrCI (18.2 ml/min).            Levels of NGAL changed
throughout the experiment, ranging from 84% of baseline during congestion to 47% to 84%
of baseline between 30 and 90 minutes. The final value was 115% of baseline. Levels of
KIM-1 decreased 40% from baseline within the first 30 minutes of congestion, before
increasing to 8.7x, 6.7x, 6.6x, and 8x of baseline values, respectively, for the remaining 30
minute windows. Serum creatinine level at 2 hours was 3.1 mg/dl. Histological examination
revealed an overall congestion level, measured by blood volume in capillary space, of 0.9%.
The tubules were noted to be histologically normal.
[00311]    Animal D: The animal weighed 38.2 kg and had a baseline urine output of 0.98
ml/min, a baseline serum creatinine of 1.0 mg/dl, and a measured CrCl of 46.8 ml/min.
Congestion was associated with a 75% reduction in urine output rate (0.24 ml/min) and a
65% reduction in Cr Cl (16.2 ml/min). Continued congestion was associated with a 66% to
91% reduction of urine output and 89% to 71% reduction in CrCl. Levels of NGAL changed
throughout the experiment, ranging from 127% of baseline during congestion to a final value
                                              66

of 209% of baseline. Levels of KIM-1 remained between 1x and 2x of baseline for the first
two 30-minute windows after baseline assessment, before increasing to 190x, 219x, and
201x of baseline values for the last three 30-minute periods. The 2-hour serum creatinine
level was 1.7 mg/dl. Histological examination revealed an overall congestion level 2.44x
greater than that observed in tissue samples for the treated animals (A, C) with an average
capillary size 2.33 times greater than that observed in either of the treated animals. The
histological evaluation also noted several tubules with intraluminal hyaline casts as well as
tubular epithelial degeneration, indicating substantial cellular damage.
         Summary
[00312]       While not intending to be bound by theory, it is believed that the collected data
supports the hypothesis that venous congestion creates a physiologically significant impact
on renal function.      In particular, it was observed that elevation of the renal vein pressure
reduced urine output by 75% to 98% within seconds. The association between elevations in
biomarkers of tubular injury and histological damage is consistent with the degree of venous
congestion generated, both in terms of magnitude and duration of the injury.
[00313]       The data also appears to support the hypothesis that venous congestion decreases
the filtration gradients in the medullary nephrons by altering the interstitial pressures. The
change appears to directly contribute to the hypoxia and cellular injury within medullary
nephrons. While this model does not mimic the clinical condition of AKI, it does provide
insight into the mechanical sustaining injury.
[00314]       The data also appears to support the hypothesis that applying negative pressure
to the renal pelvis through ureteral catheters can increase urine output in a venous congestion
model.      In particular, negative pressure treatment was associated with increases in urine
output and creatinine clearance that would be clinically significant.            Physiologically
meaningful decreases in medullary capillary volume and smaller elevations in biomarkers
of tubular injury were also observed. Thus, it appears that by increasing urine output rate
and decreasing interstitial pressures in medullary nephrons, negative pressure therapy may
directly decrease congestion. While not intending to be bound by theory, by decreasing
congestion, it may be concluded that negative pressure therapy reduces hypoxia and its
downstream effects within the kidney in a venous congestion mediated AKI.
[00315]       The experimental results appear to support the hypothesis that the degree of
congestion, both in terms of the magnitude of pressure and duration, is associated with the
degree of cellular injury observed. Specifically, an association between the degree of urine
                                                 67

output reduction and the histological damage was observed. For example, treated Swine A,
which had a 98% reduction in urine output, experienced more damage than treated Swine C,
which had a 75% reduction in urine output. As would be expected, control Swine D, which
was subjected to a 75% reduction in urine output without benefit of therapy for two and a
half hours, exhibited the most histological damage. These findings are broadly consistent
with human data demonstrating an increased risk for AKI onset with greater venous
congestion. See e.g., Legrand, M. et al., Association between systemic hemodynamics and
septic acute kidney injury in critically ill patients: a retrospective observational study.
Critical Care 17:R278-86, 2013.
[00316]     The preceding examples and embodiments of the invention have been described
with reference to various examples. Modifications and alterations will occur to others upon
reading and understanding the foregoing examples. Accordingly, the foregoing examples
are not to be construed as limiting the disclosure.
                                               68

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.   A ureteral catheter, comprising:
     (a)  a proximal portion; and
     (b) a distal portion, the distal portion comprising a retention portion, wherein the retention
          portion comprises an inwardly facing side comprising one or more drainage ports and
          an outwardly facing side, and wherein, when negative pressure is applied through the
          ureteral catheter, fluid is drawn into the ureteral catheter through the one or more
          drainage ports while mucosal tissue is prevented from appreciably occluding the one
          or more drainage ports.
2.   The ureteral catheter of claim 1, wherein the retention portion comprises a coiled retention
     portion extending radially toward a kidney of a patient.
3.   The ureteral catheter of claim 1, wherein the proximal portion extends outside a patient's
     body through the patient's urethra.
4.   The ureteral catheter of claim 1, wherein the proximal portion is configured to be
     connected to a pump for application of negative pressure through the ureteral catheter.
5.   The ureteral catheter of claim 1, wherein the proximal portion is in a patient's bladder.
6.   The ureteral catheter of claim 5, wherein the proximal portion is configured to be in fluid
     communication with a bladder catheter, and wherein the bladder catheter extends outside
     the patient's body through the patient's urethra.
7.   The ureteral catheter of claim 6, wherein the bladder catheter is configured to be connected
     to a pump for application of negative pressure through both the bladder catheter and the
     ureteral catheter.
8.   A ureteral catheter, comprising:
     (a)  a proximal portion; and
     (b) a distal portion comprising a sidewall comprising an inwardly facing side comprising
          one or more drainage ports and an outwardly facing side, wherein, when negative
          pressure is applied through the ureteral catheter, fluid is drawn into the ureteral
          catheter through the one or more drainage ports while mucosal tissue contacts the
                                                69

         outwardly facing side and is thereby prevented from appreciably occluding the one or
         more drainage ports.
9.  The ureteral catheter of claim 8, wherein the distal portion comprises a coiled retention
    portion extending radially toward a kidney of a patient.
10. The ureteral catheter of claim 8, wherein the proximal portion extends outside a patient's
    body through the patient's urethra.
11. The ureteral catheter of claim 8, wherein the proximal portion is configured to be
    connected to a pump for application of negative pressure through the ureteral catheter.
12. The ureteral catheter of claim 8, wherein the proximal portion is in a patient's bladder.
13. The ureteral catheter of claim 12, wherein the proximal portion is configured to be in fluid
    communication with a bladder catheter, and wherein the bladder catheter extends outside
    the patient's body through the patient's urethra.
14. The ureteral catheter of claim 13, wherein the bladder catheter is configured to be
    connected to a pump for application of negative pressure through both the bladder catheter
    and the ureteral catheter.
15. A system for inducing negative pressure in a portion of a urinary tract of a patient, the
    system comprising:
    (a)  a ureteral catheter comprising a distal portion for insertion within the patient's kidney
         and a proximal portion;
    (b) a bladder catheter comprising a distal portion in the patient's bladder and a proximal
         portion for application of negative pressure, the proximal portion extending outside
         the patient's body; and
    (c)  a pump external to the patient's body for application of negative pressure at the
         proximal end of the bladder catheter, wherein the pump induces negative pressure
         through both the bladder catheter and the ureteral catheter, which in turn causes fluid
         from the kidney to be drawn into the ureteral catheter., through both the ureteral
         catheter and the bladder catheter, and then outside the patient's body.
                                              70

16. The system of claim 15, wherein the distal portion of the ureteral catheter comprises a
    sidewall comprising an inwardly facing side comprising one or more drainage ports and an
    outwardly facing side, and wherein, when negative pressure is applied through the ureteral
    catheter, fluid is drawn into the ureteral catheter through the one or more drainage ports
    while mucosal tissue contacts the outwardly facing side and is thereby prevented from
    appreciably occluding the one or more drainage ports.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the distal portion comprises a coiled retention portion
    extending radially toward the patient's kidney.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the distal portion of the ureteral catheter comprises a
    retention portion that comprises an inwardly facing side comprising one or more drainage
    ports and an outwardly facing side, and wherein, when negative pressure is applied through
    the ureteral catheter, fluid is drawn into the ureteral catheter through the one or more
    drainage ports while mucosal tissue is prevented from appreciably occluding the one or
    more drainage ports.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the retention portion comprises a coiled retention portion
    extending radially toward the patient's kidney.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the distal portion of the bladder catheter comprises a
    sidewall comprising an inwardly facing side comprising one or more drainage ports and an
    outwardly facing side, and wherein, when negative pressure is applied through the bladder
    catheter, fluid is drawn into the bladder catheter through the one or more drainage ports
    while mucosal tissue contacts the outwardly facing side and is thereby prevented from
    appreciably occluding the one or more drainage ports.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the distal portion comprises a coiled retention portion
    extending radially within the patient's bladder.
22. The system of claim 15, wherein the distal portion of the bladder catheter comprises a
    retention portion that comprises an inwardly facing side comprising one or more drainage
    ports and an outwardly facing side, and wherein, when negative pressure is applied through
    the bladder catheter, fluid is drawn into the bladder catheter through the one or more
    drainage ports while mucosal tissue is prevented from appreciably occluding the one or
    more drainage ports.
                                                71

23. The system of claim 22, wherein the retention portion comprises a coiled retention portion
    extending radially within the patient's bladder.
                                              72

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
