ll:\szp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\16297703_1.docx-18
                                   01 2018
Abstract
Embodiments herein report compositions of alpha-i antitrypsin fusion polypeptides or
peptide derivatives thereof. In certain embodiments, compositions and methods relate to
generating a construct of use in pharmaceutically acceptable compositions to treat a subject
in need of alpha-i antitrypsin therapy or treatment. In other embodiments, compositions
and methods disclosed herein concern linking alpha-i antitrypsin or derivative thereof to
an immune fragment.

HI:\szp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\16298512_l.docx-1801/2018
         COMPOSITIONS, METHODS AND USES FOR ALPHA-1 ANTITRYPSIN FUSION
                                                              MOLECULES
Priority
10001] This PCT application claims priority to U.S Provisional application No. 61/500,795 filed on
June 24, 2011. This application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.
10001A] This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a
divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2012272636, the entire contents of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
Field
10002] Embodiments herein relate to compositions of recombinant alpha-I antitrypsin (a- 1 antitrypsin,
AAT). In certain embodiments, recombinant AAT disclosed herein can be more readily purified than
other forms of AAT. In other embodiments, recombinant AAT has enhanced anti-inflammatory and
anti-immune activities compared to naturally-occurring AAT or other commercial formulations of
AAT. In yet other embodiments, 2-fold, 10-fold or 100 fold less recombinant AAT (rAAT) may be
used in the place of any and all current forms of plasma-derived AAT for prevention or treatments of a
condition or disease in a subject. In some embodiments, rAAT can be used to treat a subject having a
condition such as inflammation of various tissues or organs, infections or other health conditions.
Background
AAT
10003] Normal plasma concentration of alpha-i antitrypsin (AAT) ranges from 1.3 to 3.5 mg/ml.
Under certain conditions, AAT easily diffuses into tissue spaces and forms a 1:1 complex with target
proteases, principally neutrophil elastase. Other enzymes such as trypsin, chymotrypsin, cathepsin G,
plasmin, thrombin, tissue kallikrein, and factor Xa can also serve as substrates. The enzyme/inhibitor
complex is then removed from circulation by binding to serpin-enzyme complex (SEC) receptor and
catabolized by the liver and spleen.
SUMMARY
10004] Embodiments herein report generating and using recombinant constructs of alpha-i antitrypsin
having superior properties to commercially available AAT compositions. Other embodiments report
methods for purifying and scaling-up recombinant AAT production for therapeutic uses. In accordance
with these embodiments, recombinant AAT can be isolated for use for any AAT-related activity, for
example, as an anti-inflammatory agent, an immune modulator and/or a serine protease inhibitor.
                                                                  1

[0005] In certain embodiments, recombinant AAT disclosed herein includes a full length
molecule or carboxyterminal peptide derivative thereof generated by any recombinant
technology known in the art. Some embodiments concern constructs including AAT or a
carboxyterminal derivative thereof having immunological elements associated with AAT, for
example, to use for rapid purification and activity conservation of the AAT or to increase
activity of AAT or its peptides. Other embodiments concern simultaneous synthesis of more
than one constructs having AAT molecules each associated with an immunological element
(e.g., an Fc fragment) and co-purified as a unit. Other embodiments can concern generating a
construct of one or more carboxyterminal derivative(s) or fragment(s) of AAT including, for
example, a fragment of the last 80 AAs (on the carboxyterminus) or subfragments thereof
(e.g., about 40, abut 30, about 20 or about 10 AAs, or about 5 AAs) of the molecule
associated with one or more immune molecule to form a construct for compositions, methods
and uses disclosed herein.
[0006] An AAT molecule of a construct contemplated herein can concern naturally
occurring alpha-I antitrypsin (e.g., human) or the most abundant form of AAT or other
naturally-occurring form thereof, or fragments, or derivatives thereof, or mutant forms of
AAT having no significant serine protease inhibitor activity, or alleles thereof (for example,
there are approximately 100 naturally occurring AAT variants and any of these variants can
be used in constructs disclosed herein), or analogs thereof or fusion protein thereof (e.g., a
human IgG or fragment of human IgG). In accordance with these embodiments, a final
construct or fusion polpeptide may include 2 AAT molecules or fusion polypeptides each
associated with a common immunological fragment (e.g., an Fc fragment) wherein the AAT
immune fragment constructs are linked together by disulfide bonds to form a dimer AAT
immune fragment fusion molecule (See for example, Fig. 2A and Figs. 6A-6B).
[0007] In certain methods disclosed herein, purification of the AAT or AAT-peptide
associated with the immune molecule significantly increases activity of an AAT composition
compared to commercially available formulations or native AAT. In addition, time to
purification is dramatically reduced by eliminating multiple purification steps while
preserving critical activities of the constructs or fusion molecules. In other embodiments,
improved recovery of a fusion molecule contemplated herein can be more readily achieved
using linker molecules between the AAT molecule and the immune fragment. Certain fusion
molecules disclosed herein are capable of inhibiting cytokines or modulate the immune and
inflammatory functions of the molecules compared to controls (e.g., typical purification of
                                                  2

naturally occurring AAT and purification of commercially available formulas). In accordance
with these embodiments, a unit including two or more AAT-immune constructs (or AAT
fragments) can be purified and used in compositions and methods disclosed herein. Fc
huAAT can be used in any method or composition contemplated herein. Other embodiments
include using IgGI, IgG2 IgG3, IgG4 or IGD Fc fragments linked to an AAT molecule
purified by rapid purification methods in order to preserve activity of the AAT molecule. For
example, certain embodiments disclosed herein concern using Protein A as minimum step
(e.g., one-step) purification in order to avoid the deleterious effects of other methods known
in the art. Some embodiments herein concern preserving 85%, 90%, 95% or more anti
inflammatory activity compared to standard purifications used for commercially available
products (e.g., AralastTM , Prolastinf m ) and/or compared to naturally occurring AAT found in
blood plasma. In one embodiment, recombinant molecules of the instant application have
demonstrated 2 to 10, 10 to 100, and in certain embodiments 2 to 100 fold more activity
compared to commercially available formulations. Disclosed herein are methods to create
and recover constructs having acitivities similar to and in certain embodiments, superior to in
vivo or native AAT. Certain activities known to be of interest regarding AAT include, but are
not limited to, immunomodulatory or inflammatory modulation activities. For example,
fusion molecules described herein can behave as anti-inflammatory molecules due to
induction of naturally occurring anti-inflammatory molecules such as the IL-I receptor
antagonist (IL-IRa), CTLA-4, IL-18 binding protein and/or IL-10 and the like. It is
contemplated herein that constructs described can be isolated and assessed for activities that
can be other than serine protease inhibitor activities. In some embodiments, constructs
disclosed herein have greater IL-I receptor antagonist activity compared to commercially
available compositions.
[0008] In certain embodiments, compositions (e.g., construct or fusion polypeptide
compositions) and methods concern modulating adverse effects of radiation on a subject. In
some embodiments, compositions and methods concern treating a subject having radiation
therapy or radiation for example, when administered to a subject having cancer or suspected
of developing a malignancy or for uncontrolled cellular growth. Other embodiments
disclosed herein concern treating a subject having been exposed to radiation, for example, by
accident or by a purposeful act.
[0009] In other embodiments, a composition disclosed herein can be administered to a
subject every time a subject undergoes radiation and/or chemotherapy. Some embodiments
                                                   3

disclosed herein concern treatment of a subject undergoing cancer therapies. Cancer
treatments include, but are not limited to, treatment for bladder, breast, kidney, leukemia,
lung, myeloma, liposarcoma, lymphoma, tongue, prostate, stomach, colon, uterine cancers,
melanoma, pancreatic, eye and other known cancers.
[0010] Some embodiments disclosed herein concern treating a subject having prostate
cancer. In accordance with these embodiments, a male subject having prostate cancer can be
treated with compositions disclosed herein before, during or after radiation and/or
chemotherapy in order to reduce development of impotence or erectile dysfunction, common
side effects of prostate cancer therapies.
[0011] Other embodiments concern combination therapies for the treatment of a subject
undergoing cancer related therapies, for example a composition disclosed herein can be
combined with any other agent known to shrink or eliminate a tumor or reduce metastisis of a
tumor in the subject or treat other aspects of cancer in the subject.
[0012] In certain embodiments, treating the subject with a composition encompassed herein
to modulate normal cell damage can be by at least 10%, or by at least 20% or by at least 30%,
or by at least 40%, or by at least 50%, or by at least 60%, or by at least 70%, or by at least
80%, or by at least 90% compared to a subject not treated with the composition.
[0013] Some embodiments concern administering AAT generated by using recombinant
technology to a subject in need of AAT therapy. In accordance to these embodiments, a
subject could have an AAT-deficiency, an inflammatory or immune condition or other AAT
related condition known in the art. Certain embodiments herein include administering a
composition having at least one construct and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to a
subject in need of such a treatment. In certain embodiments, doses administered to a subject
can include a 2-fold, 10-fold or 100-fold reduction in dose to the subject compared to
commercially available formulations. In certain embodiments, a dose can be about 0.01
mg/kg, 0.1 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg to a subject compared to 10 mg/kg to 100 mg/kg
(concentrations of commonly used commercially available AAT such as Aralast T M or
Prolastin  CTM).
[0014] Some embodiments of the present invention report modulating the onset or
progression of cardiac tissue remodeling (e.g., enlargement and necrosis of cardiac tissue),
for example, left or right ventricular (LV) remodeling. In accordance with these
embodiments, intervention for example, by administering a composition disclosed herein, can
                                                 4

modulate onset, severity (e.g., of damage) or progression before, during, or after a cardiac
event that can lead to heart muscle damage. In yet other embodiment, compositions disclosed
herein can be administered to a subject having a heart condition to reduce early or late infarct
size. In accordance with these embodiments, an early infarct can be one measured before (for
example, a baseline), during or within 48 hours after surgery or other cardiac event. In other
embodiments, a late infarct can be one measured after 48 hours or up to days or weeks after
surgery or other cardiac event, for example 7 days after a cardiac event. In yet other
embodiments, compositions disclosed herein can be used to treat a subject having a cardiac
event (e.g., myocardial infarction), to modulate cardiac enlargement and dysfunction as a
consequence of the cardiac event by about 5%, or about 10%, or about 15 %, or about 20% or
about 25%, or about 30% or more compared to a subject not treated with these compositions.
[0015] Certain embodiments concern compositions for treating a subject having a cardiac
event. In accordance with these embodiments, a composition can include, recombinant alpha
1 antitrypsin (e.g., human), or fusion proteins or peptides thereof or recombinants, or mutants
thereof having no significant serine protease inhibitor activity, or alleles thereof (for example,
there are approximately 100 naturally occurring AAT varients), or analogs thereof or fusion
proteins thereof (e.g., a human IgG or fragment of human IgG (Fc)). Some embodiments
concern administering naturally occurring AAT to a subject having or having had a cardiac
event in order to modulate LV remodeling. Other embodiments can concern administering a
composition of one or more carboxyterminal derivative(s) or fragment(s) of AAT including,
for example, a fragment of the last 80 AAs of the 394 AA naturally occurring AAT (SEQ ID
NO. 1 and 33). Certain embodiments concern treating a subject having a cardiac condition
with a recombinantly-produced fusion AAT peptide disclosed herein in order to ameliorate
the cardiac condition.
[0016] Other embodiments include treating a subject having an infection (e.g., bacteria or
viral infection) or preventing a subject from getting an infection using compositions disclosed
herein.
[0017] Some embodiments concern compositions disclosed herein to reduce or prevent graft
rejection. In other embodiments, compositions disclosed herein can be used to reduce the
incidence or prevent Graft versus Host disease (GVHD).                   In other embodiments,
compositions disclosed herein can be used to reduce cellular transplant rejections or side
effects thereof     Cellular transplantation can include islet cell, stem cell, corneal epithelial
                                                 5

cells, liver cells, skin or other similar transplantation. Some embodiments concern reducing
inflammatory activity and/or adverse immune responses in a subject undergoing a transplant.
[0018] Other embodiments herein concern treating a subject with an autoimmune disorder in
order to treat the condition and/or inhibit detrimental immune responses in the subject.
[0019] In certain embodiments, compositions for administration can be in a range of between
about 0.1 ng and about 10 mg per ml or mg of the formulation. A therapeutically effective
amount of AAT peptides or constructs that have similar activities as AAT or peptides may be
measured in molar concentrations and may range between about 1 nM and about 10 mM. The
formulation is also contemplated in combination with a pharmaceutically or cosmetically
acceptable carrier. Precise doses can be established by well known routine clinical trials
without undue experimentation. In one embodiment, a subject may be treated for a
conditions with a single dose (e.g., 0.6 mg/kg to 0.8 mg/kg by IV infusion depending on the
potency of the construct composition compared to a control) of an active agent (e.g., AAT
construct or AAT peptide derivative thereof). In accordance with this embodiment, the
subject can be treated with follow-on treatments (e.g., 5 to 10 days following a single dose or
more) as determined by a health professional. Other embodiments can include using a
control population having a placebo (e.g., human serum albumin administration or other
comparable placebo) and comparing a placebo effect to a population receiving compositions
disclosed herein.
[0020] Any method for administering a composition disclosed herein is contemplated. In
certain embodiments, a composition can be administered to a subject in need thereof
intravenously, intranassally, subcutaneously, orally, by inhalation, applied to the skin e.g.,
topically, by suppository, vaginally or by any method known in the art.
[0021] In certain embodiments, the subject is a mammal. In some embodiments, the
mammal is a human. In yet other embodiments, the subject is a pregnant female or young
child. In other embodiments, the subject is a pet, a domesticated animal or livestock.
[0022] In other embodiments, the subject or mammal can be a non-domesticated mammal
such as a captive or free wild animal.
[0023] In certain embodiments, compositions comprising human AAT mutants may have no
significant serine protease inhibitor activity can be used in constructs disclosed herein for use
in methods described (e.g., AAT fusion peptide derivative or Reactive Center Loop (RCL)
related mutant fusion polypeptide). In accordance with these embodiments, recombinant
                                                  6

molecules or fusion protein constructs disclosed herein have no significant serine protease
inhibition activity. These constructs can be generated where they associate with an immune
molecule (e.g., Fc). For example, fusion with an immune molecule can provide a convenient
way for rapid purification of a fusion polypeptide thereby preserving activities of the AAT or
carboxyterminal thereof by reducing purification steps. In certain embodiments, the
purification step is a single step using an affinity process (e.g., Protein A). These processes
preserve conformation of the constructs disclosed herein by reducing deleterious purification
steps used in other commercially available formulations (e.g., AralastTM , Prolastin   CTM).
Other embodiments concern AAT-derived fragment constructs adapted to have no significant
serine protease inhibitor activity. Other constructs herein can include, but are not limited to,
constructs including a carboxy-terminal peptide or amino-terminal peptides corresponding to
AAT, an analog thereof, any derivative of AAT carboxy terminus that binds to serpin
enzyme complex (SEC) receptor or a combination thereof linked to an immune molecule
(e.g., IgG molecule).
[0024] Pharmaceutical compositions contemplated herein may further include an agent
selected from the group consisting of an anti-inflammatory agent, an immunosuppressive
agent, an immunomodulatory agent, an anti-viral agent, an anti-pathogenic agent, an anti
bacterial agent, a protease inhibitor, and a combination thereof depending on need of the
subject. Some of these agents include, but are not limited to, one or more of interferon,
interferon derivatives including betaseron, beta-interferon, prostane derivatives including
iloprost, cicaprost; glucocorticoids including cortisol, prednisolone, methyl-prednisolone,
dexamethasone; immunsuppressives including cyclosporine A, FK-506, methoxsalene,
thalidomide, sulfasalazine, azathioprine, methotrexate; lipoxygenase inhibitors comprising
zileutone, MK-886, WY-50295, SC-45662, SC-41661A, BI-L-357; leukotriene antagonists;
peptide derivatives including ACTH and analogs thereof; soluble TNF-receptors; TNF
antibodies; soluble receptors of interleukins, other cytokines, T-cell-proteins; antibodies
against receptors of interleukins, T-cell-proteins; and calcipotriols; Celcept@, mycophenolate
mofetil, and analogues thereof taken either alone or in combination.
[0025] As such, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception, upon which this
disclosure is based, can readily be used as a basis for designing other methods for carrying
out the several features and advantages of embodiments of the present invention.
                                                  7

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0026] The following drawings form part of the present specification and are included to
further demonstrate certain embodiments disclosed herein. Embodiments may be better
understood by reference to one or more of these drawings in combination with the detailed
description of specific embodiments presented herein.
[0027] Fig. 1 represents a schematic of an AAT construct contemplated of use for some
embodiments disclosed herein.
[0028] Fig. 2A represents a schematic of human AAT constructs with associated immune
molecules contemplated of use for some embodiments disclosed herein.
[0029] Fig. 3 represents a histogram plot of IL-8 production in a cellular model in the
presence or absence of Fc-AAT.
[0030] Fig. 4 represents a histogram plot of production ofexpression of an anti-inflammatory
molecule (IL-I receptor antagonist (IL-IRa)) in the presence of a fusion molecule of certain
embodiments described herein (e.g., Fc-AAT).
[0031] Fig. 5 represents proposed fusion molecules contemplated herein.
[0032] Figs. 6A-6B represents exemplary constructs contemplated herein.
[0033] Fig. 7 represents production of IL-I Receptor antagonist (IL-IRa) in the presence of
increasing amounts of a fusion molecule contemplated herein.
Description of Illustrative Embodiments
Definitions:
[0034] As used herein, "a" or "an" may mean one or more than one of an item.
[0035] As used herein, "about" can mean plus or minus 10%, for example, about 10 minutes
can mean from 9 to II minutes.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0036] In the following sections, various exemplary compositions and methods are described
in order to detail various embodiments of the invention. It will be obvious to one skilled in
the art that practicing the various embodiments does not require the employment of all or
even some of the specific details outlined herein, but rather that concentrations, times and
                                               8

other specific details may be modified through routine experimentation. In some cases, well
known methods, or components have not been included in the description.
[0037] It has been traditionally thought that AAT (alpha-i antitrypsin) anti-inflammatory
activities were attributed to its ability to inhibit serine proteases, and particularly neutrophil
elastase.   This is the basis for its use in replacement therapy for humans with AAT
deficiencies. AAT that is currently commercially available for human use is standardized by
its anti-elastase units not for other AAT-related activities.      These commercially available
formulations are purified from pooled human plasma, but these are not pure (although some
are purer than others) because they contain other human serum proteins.           The majority of
studies on human AAT in vitro as well as in vivo models depend on the use of these
commercially available preparations directed to serine protease inhibition activity, each
approved for use in humans.       Although infusions of AAT in humans with various AAT
deficiency states are considered safe, the role of contaminating proteins remains unknown.
Certain embodiments herein report quick production of recombinant forms of AAT of high
purity and high activity to overcome issues of contaminating co-purified plasma proteins.
[0038] Excess inflammation or inflammation activation can result in the initiation,
progression and destructive nature of several chronic diseases, for example chronic
destructive or wasting diseases. These include, but are not limited to, autoimmune diseases,
such as rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes such as Type 1 where insulin-producing beta cells can
be destroyed by an immune attack. Other conditions that may be treated by compositions and
methods disclosed herein include Type 2 diabetes. In addition to autoimmune diseases,
chronic inflammation of coronary arteries can increase the risk of a heart attack or stroke.
Chronic inflammation also contributes to inflammation in the intestines (e.g.,            Crohn's
Disease, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) or ulcerative colitis). Several naturally occurring
proteins are produced each day in a subject that control inflammation in the subject. AAT is
one of these proteins. One drawback of a therapy with AAT is that commercially available
AAT is isolated from the plasma of human blood donors therefore supply is limited to
available plasma. Uses of therapeutic AAT are growing because its application is not limited
to the current uses such as chronic pulmonary obstructive disease (COPD) and AAT
replacement therapies.
[0039]    One drawback of a therapy with AAT is that commercially available AAT is isolated
from the plasma of human blood donors therefore supply is limited to available plasma. Uses
of therapeutic AAT are growing because its application is not limited to the current uses such
                                                  9

as chronic pulmonary obstructive disease, emphysema, cystic fibrosis, bronchiocytis,
pulmonary fibrosis, and AAT replacement therapies.
[0040] In certain embodiments, Fe molecules may be associated with AAT molecules to
make dimers of Fc-AAT, for example, linked by disulfide bonds through the immune
molecule. In other embodiments, monomeric molecules of Fc-AAT can be generated and
used in methods disclosed herein. Any of the molecules described herein can be rapidly
purified using, for example, Protein A column, other affinity purification methods or matrix
or other quick purification or enrichment method for rapid separation to preserve activity.
[0041] Embodiments herein report generating constructs of alpha-I antitrypsin (AAT) or
carboxyterminal fragment thereof having superior properties to current commercially
available AAT compositions. Other embodiments report methods for rapidly purifying
fusion proteins or peptides and subsequent uses for purified AAT fusion molecules disclosed
herein. It is contemplated that commercially available AAT derived from blood plasma is in
short supply, is currently purified by methods that destroy important properties of AAT and a
need exists for synthetic versions of this molecule or updated purification methods where the
synthetically produced AATs are capable of performing as well if not better than native forms
of AAT or AAT derived peptides.
[0042] With respect to AAT activities other than serine protease inhibition, AAT exerts anti
inflammatory properties by several mechanisms. Preliminary data using a mutation of the
anti-protease site (e.g., to reduce anti-protease activity to insignificant levels) support the
concept that some of AAT's activities do not require the anti-protease properties of AAT. In
certain embodiments, different recombinant truncated and mutant forms of naturally
occurring human AAT (e.g., 394 AA, Mr about 51,000 or other AAT formulations) are
generated in order to assess anti-inflammatory properties of the molecule. This approach
allows for producing AAT molecules of various compositions, which is extremely difficult
using the standard methods of plasma-derived AAT. It was demonstrated that anti
inflammatory properties of AAT can be oxidized by currently used purification procedures of
commercially available compositions thus, the instant methods for preparing and purifying
fusion molecules of AAT are superior to the current methods. Methods disclosed herein
provide superior rapid purification methods for preserving AAT-related activities in fusion
molecules and constructs described herein.
                                                 10

[0043] In certain previously disclosed methods, it has been demonstrated that AAT blocks
toxic activities of IL-1  on mouse model and human pancreatic islet cells. Some
embodiments herein concern testing and verifying whether fusion molecules or recombinant
production of AAT fusion molecules are capable of mimicking this activity. In certain
embodiments, recombinantly-produced fusion peptides of the carboxyl terminal region of
human AAT are generated for blocking toxic activities or production of IL-1I and for
reducing caspase-1 activity. These fusion peptides are useful for blocking or reducing
production of or activities of pro-inflammatory molecules and therefore are useful for
treatment and prevention of many health conditions related to uncontrolled inflammatory
responses.
[0044] AAT was first classified as a protease inhibitor belonging to the serpin superfamily. It
is generally known as serum trypsin inhibitor. AAT can also be referred to as alpha-I
proteinase inhibitor (A1PI) because it inhibits a wide variety of proteases. AAT protects
tissues from enzymes of inflammatory cells, such as neutrophil elastase, and typically has a
range in blood of about 1.5 to 3.5 gram/liter. Over 100 different variants of ai -antitrypsin
have been described in various populations. The most common variety of AAT is termed M,
based on its migration in an IEF gel. Other variants are termed A-L and N-Z, depending on
whether they run proximal or distal to the M band. The presence of deviant bands on IEF can
signify the presence of AAT deficiency. As indicated above, M type AAT has several
subtypes and all of these subtypes are contemplated of use herein. It is contemplated that any
variants of AAT can be used as fusion molecules using construct designs disclosed herein.
[0045] The current trend for obtaining therapeutic concentrates of AAT is to prepare AAT
from the blood plasma of blood donors (e.g., human donors for example). This is a very
limited resource and requires extensive purification steps to get to a marketable product. So
far, the United States Food & Drug Administration has approved the use of several
commercial products derived from human plasma. For example, some of these products
include Prolastin@, ProlastinC@, (Talecris (now Grifols, Raleigh, N.C.)), Zemaira@, and
Aralast@ (Baxter) and Kamada has both an aerosol and an intravenous product (Kamada,
Israel). Most of these formulations are administered intravenously for AAT therapy in AAT
deficient patients and can cost up to $100,000 per year per patient. It has been demonstrated
that plasma isolated AAT has reduced activity compared to AAT derived from blood. In
addition, the current purification protocols result in significantly reduced activity and AAT
from the plasma in general. Compositions disclosed herein have increased anti-inflammatory
                                                II

activity similar to that of blood not of plasma-derived AAT; and greater activity than the
current commercially available formulations which have activities that are based on anti
protease activities not anti-inflammatory activities.
[0046] One study analyzed and compared three of the FDA-approved products in terms of its
primary structure and glycosylation. Several of the products showed differences compared to
the normal human plasma AAT that are likely introduced during purifications procedures. In
addition, it was previously demonstrated that comparison of the commercial formulations in
certain studies had large variability regarding serine protease inhibition activity and AAT
purity. Recently, one of the standard commercially available formulations, Prolastin@, was
evaluated and a new formulation ProlastinC@ was purified differently than Prolastin@, in
order to increase anti-protease activity (e.g., serine protease inhibition activity) in the final
product. All of the activities reported for these commercial products are directed to assessing
serine protease inhibition activities not anti-inflammatory or immune modulatory activity or
alternative AAT-related activities. Thus, the current commercial products are not only scarce
in quantity but are inferior in quality to the the naturally-occurring formulations.
[0047] In spite of efforts to improve AAT formulations, there is a finite supply of plasma
AAT available and therefore recombinant AAT molecules have been sought with little to no
success up until now. Recombinant molecules generated previously were sometimes equal to
but often less active when assayed by serine protease inhibitor assays compared to the
commercially available formulations previously indicated. Thus, limited supply of plasma
and inferior recombinant AAT molecules of the past have left a void for generating adequate
supplies of AAT for use in previous and recently discovered methodologies.
[0048] Some embodiments herein concern generating a highly active, highly functional
recombinant AAT construct relative to commercially available formulations for use in any
AAT method or treatment known in the art. In certain embodiments, recombinant AAT
disclosed herein includes a full length molecule or carboxyterminal peptide derivative
thereof Some embodiments concern simultaneous synthesis of more than one construct
having AAT molecules each associated with an immunological element (e.g., an Fc fragment
or other fragment linked by a disulfide bond) and co-purified to generate a dimer. Other
embodiments can concern generating a construct of one or more carboxyterminal
derivative(s) or fragment(s) of AAT including, for example, a fragment of the last 80, 70, 60,
50, 40, 30 amino acids or other fragment of the carboxyterminus of the molecule associated
                                                  12

or fused to one or more immune molecule(s) to form a construct for methods and uses
disclosed herein.
[0049] An AAT molecule of a construct contemplated herein can concern naturally
occurring alpha-I antitrypsin (e.g., human or other mammal) in total (or with a signal
sequence or other directing sequence), or fragments, or derivatives thereof, or mutant forms
of AAT, any AAT molecule having no significant serine protease inhibitor activity, or alleles
thereof (for example, there are approximately 100 naturally occurring AAT varients), or
analogs thereof or fusion protein thereof (e.g., a human IgG or fragment of human IgG). In
accordance with these embodiments, a construct can include dimeric AAT constructs
associated with an immunological fragment (e.g., an Fc fragment that links two molecules of
AAT) wherein the Fc-AAT constructs are linked together by one or more disulfide bond(s).
See for example, Fig. 2A and Figs. 6A-6B disclosed herein. In certain methods, purification
of recombinant AAT or AAT-peptide and immune molecule complexes increase activity of
the AAT or AAT-peptide by significantly reducing purification steps and significantly
increasing potency of AAT or AAT-peptide. In accordance with these embodiments,
recombinant AAT molecules contemplated herein can be used as a fusion polypeptide (e.g.,
dimer or monomeric form) or can be cleaved from its immune molecule after purification and
used as in reduced concentrations compared to commercially available formulations. Some
embodiments concern, using     12, 1/4, 1 / 1 0 th to 1/ 1 0 0 th of a concentration compared to
commercially available formulations. In certain examples, these molecules can be used in
compositions to inhibit cytokines or modulate the immune and inflammatory functions of the
molecules compared to controls (e.g., typical purification of naturally occurring AAT and
purification of commercially available formulas). In one embodiment, recombinant
molecules of the instant application have demonstrated more activity than current
commercially available formulation. Certain activities known to be of interest regarding
AAT constructs of the instant invention include immunomodulatory or inflammatory
modulation activities. In some embodiments, constructs disclosed herein have increased IL
1p receptor antagonist activity compared to commercially available compositions.
[0050] In certain embodiments, the subject is a mammal. In some embodiments, the
mammal is a human. In yet other embodiments, the subject is a male, a female, a pregnant
female, an infant or a juvenile.
                                                       13

Some Uses for Recombinant AAT in the Treatment of Health Conditions
[0051] Some embodiments reported herein concern using recombinant AAT or fusion
protein or carboxyterminal fragment fusion molecule thereof to treat a subject in need of
AAT therapy. AAT treatments have been reported of use in a variety of conditions including,
but not limited to, apoptosis related conditions, nitric oxide related conditions, ischemia
reperfusion dysfunction induced conditions, graft rejection and cellular rejection, diabetes,
emphysema, other lung conditions, treatment and prevention of bacterial infection, treatment
and prevention of viral infections, radiation induced injury and the like.
[0052] Some embodiments herein concern compositions of use to treat an inflammatory
disorder (e.g., IBD, arthritis) where the composition to treat the condition has reduced or
eliminated serine protease activity.
[0053] In certain embodiments, compositions and methods disclosed herein can be used to
reduce or prevent onset of inflammatory bowel disorder in a subject. In accordance with these
embodiments, reduction in conditions associated with IBS in a subject may be on the order of
about 10-20%, or about 30-40%, or about 50-60%, or about 75-100% reduction or inhibition.
In accordance with these embodiments, a subject having IBS or IBD may be treated with a
pharmaceutically acceptable composition of recombinant or a fusion protein of AAT or AAT
carboxyterminal peptide to reduce wasting or to reduce loss of or restore barrier function
compared to a control subject not receiving such a composition.
[0054] Some embodiments herein concern restoring bowel or intestinal hyperpermeability in
a subject having an acute or chronic condition. In accordance with these embodiments bowel
or intestinal hyperpermeability or loss of barrier function can be due to chronic diseases such
as systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), inflammatory bowel disease, type 1
diabetes, allergies, and asthma. In certain embodiments, a subject having bowel or intestinal
hyperpermeability can be treated by a health professional by a predetermined regimen such as
daily, twice weekly, weekly or other predetermined regimen.
[0055] In certain embodiments, compositions disclosed herein can be used to treat certain
indications including but not limited to diabetes (e.g., Type 1 and Type 2), immune diseases
such as autoimmune disease, inflammatory diseases, cardiac disorders infectious disease and
others. Some diseases disclosed herein may fall under more than one category such as
asthma which can be considered an inflammatory disease, an autoimmune disease or a lung
disease or other. In certain embodiments, compositions disclosed herein can be used to treat
                                                14

autoimmune diseases that include, but are not limited to, rheumatic diseases such as
rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE),Type I diabetes, and autoimmune
diseases of the thyroid, gut, and central nervous system (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, lupus
erythematosus, Sjogren's syndrome, scleroderma, mixed connective tissue disease,
dermatomyositis, polymyositis, Reiter's syndrome, and Behcet's disease); autoimmune
diseases of the central nervous system (e.g., multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, or
encephalomyelitis); autoimmune disease of the gastrointestinal system: (e.g., Crohn's disease,
ulcerative colitis, inflammatory bowel disease, Celiac disease, Sprue); autoimmune disease of
the thyroid: (e.g., Hashimoto's thyroiditis, or Graves' Disease); and ocular autoimmune
disease, (e.g., uveitis). Autoimmune disorder contemplated herein, can concern Alopecia
areata, nkylosing spondylitis, antiphospholipid syndrome, autoimmune Addison's disease,
autoimmune diseases of the adrenal gland, autoimmune hemolytic anemia, autoimmune
hepatitis, autoimmune oophoritis and orchitis, autoimmune thrombocytopenia, Behcet's
disease, Bullous pemphigoid, cardiomyopathy, Celiac sprue-dermatitis, chronic fatigue
immune dysfunction syndrome (CFIDS), chronic inflammatory demyelinating
polyneuropathy, Churg-Strauss syndrome, Cicatrical pemphigoid, CREST syndrome, Crohn's
disease, Discoid lupus, essential mixed cryoglobulinemia, fibromyalgia-fibromyositis,
Glomerulonephritis, Guillain-Barre, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis,
idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura (ITP), irritable bowel disease (IBD), IgA neuropathy,
Juvenile arthritis, Lichen planus, Lupus erythematosus, Meniere's disease, mixed connective
tissue disease, multiple sclerosis, Type 1 or immune-mediated diabetes mellitus, Myasthenia
gravis, Pemphigus vulgaris, Pernicious anemia, Polyarteritis nodosa, Polychrondritis,
Polyglandular syndromes, Polymyalgia rheumatic, Polymyositis and dermatomyositis,
Primary agammaglobulinemia, Primary biliary cirrhosis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis,
Raynauld's phenomenon, Reiter's syndrome, Rheumatoid arthritis, Sarcoidosis, Scleroderma,
Sjogren's syndrome, Stiff-man syndrome, Systemic lupus erythematosus, Lupus
erythematosus, Takayasu arteritis, Temporal arteristis/giant cell arteritis, ulcerative colitis,
Uveitis, Vasculitides such as dermatitis herpetiformis vasculitis, Vitiligo, Wegener's
granulomatosis, T cell mediated autoimmune disease, rheumatic disease, rheumatic arthritis,
and lupus erythematosus.
[0056] Certain embodiments concern treating a liver condition with a composition disclosed
herein. Liver conditions disclosed herein include, but are not limited to liver disease,
                                                15

cirrohosis, viral infections (e.g., hepatitis) and any other liver condition caused by excess
inflammation or an immune disorder.,
[0057] In certain embodiments disclosed herein, compositions can be used to treat an
autoimmune disease in a subject. Autoimmune diseases contemplated herein include, but are
not limited to, Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), Addison's disease,
Agammaglobulinemia, alopecia areata, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Ankylosing
Spondylitis, Antiphospholipid syndrome, Antisynthetase syndrome, Atopic allergy, Atopic
dermatitis, Autoimmune aplastic anemia, Autoimmune cardiomyopathy, Autoimmune
enteropathy, Autoimmune hemolytic anemia, Autoimmune hepatitis, Autoimmune inner ear
disease, Autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, Autoimmune peripheral neuropathy,
Autoimmune pancreatitis, Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome, Autoimmune progesterone
dermatitis, Autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura, Autoimmune urticaria, Autoimmune
uveitis, Balo disease/Balo concentric sclerosis, Behget's disease, Berger's disease,
Bickerstaffs encephalitis, Blau syndrome, Bullous pemphigoid, Cancer, Castleman's disease,
Celiac disease, Chagas disease, Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy,
Chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Churg
Strauss syndrome, Cicatricial pemphigoid, Cogan syndrome, Cold agglutinin disease,
Complement component 2 deficiency, Contact dermatitis, Cranial arteritis, CREST
syndrome, Crohn's disease (one of two types of idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease
"IBD"), Cushing's Syndrome, Cutaneous leukocytoclastic angiitis, Dego's disease, Dercum's
disease, Dermatitis herpetiformis, Dermatomyositis, Diabetes mellitus type 1, Diffuse
cutaneous systemic sclerosis, Dressler's syndrome, Drug-induced lupus, Discoid lupus
erythematosus, Eczema, Endometriosis, Enthesitis-related arthritis, Eosinophilic fasciitis,
Eosinophilic gastroenteritis, Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita, Erythema nodosum,
Erythroblastosis fetalis, Essential mixed cryoglobulinemia, Evan's syndrome, Fibrodysplasia
ossificans progressiva, Fibrosing alveolitis (or Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis), Gastritis,
Gastrointestinal pemphigoid, Giant cell arteritis, Glomerulonephritis, Goodpasture's
syndrome, Graves' disease, Guillain-Barr6 syndrome (GBS), Hashimoto's encephalopathy,
Hashimoto's thyroiditis, Henoch-Schonlein purpura, Herpes gestationis, Gestational
Pemphigoid, Hidradenitis suppurativa, Hughes-Stovin syndrome, Hypogammaglobulinemia,
Idiopathic inflammatory demyelinating diseases, Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, Idiopathic
thrombocytopenic purpura (Autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura), IgA nephropathy,
Inclusion body myositis, Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, Kawasaki's
                                                  16

disease, Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, Leukocytoclastic vasculitis, Lichen planus,
Lichen sclerosus, Linear IgA disease (LAD), Lou Gehrig's disease, Amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis, Lupoid hepatitis aka Autoimmune hepatitis, Lupus erythematosus, Majeed
syndrome, Microscopic polyangiitis, Miller-Fisher syndrome, Guillain-Barre Syndrome,
Mixed connective tissue disease, Morphea, Mucha-Habermann disease, Pityriasis lichenoides
et varioliformis acuta, Multiple sclerosis, Myasthenia gravis, Myositis, Narcolepsy,
Neuromyelitis optica, Devic's disease, Neuromyotonia, Occular cicatricial pemphigoid,
Opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome, Ord's thyroiditis, Palindromic rheumatism, PANDAS
(pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcus),
Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration, Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), Parry
Romberg syndrome, Parsonage-Turner syndrome, Pars planitis, Pemphigus vulgaris,
Pernicious anaemia, Perivenous encephalomyelitis, POEMS syndrome, Polyarteritis nodosa,
Polymyalgia rheumatica, POEMS syndrome, Polyarteritis nodosa, Polymyalgia rheumatica,
Polymyositis, Primary biliary cirrhosis, Primary sclerosing cholangitis, Progressive
inflammatory neuropathy, Psoriasis, Psoriatic arthritis, Pyoderma gangrenosum, Pure red cell
aplasia, Rasmussen's encephalitis, Raynaud phenomenon, Relapsing polychondritis, Reiter's
syndrome, Restless leg syndrome, Retroperitoneal fibrosis, Rheumatoid arthritis, Rheumatic
fever, Sarcoidosis, Schizophrenia, Schmidt syndrome, Schnitzler syndrome, Scleritis,
Scleroderma, Serum Sickness, Sj6gren's syndrome, Spondyloarthropathy, Still's disease,
Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis, Stiff person syndrome, Subacute bacterial endocarditis (SBE),
Susac's syndrome, Sweet's syndrome, Sydenham chorea, Sympathetic ophthalmia, Systemic
lupus erythematosis, Takayasu's arteritis, Temporal arteritis, Thrombocytopenia, Tolosa-Hunt
syndrome, Transverse myelitis, Ulcerative colitis, Undifferentiated spondyloarthropathy,
Undifferentiated connective tissue disease, Urticarial vasculitis, Urticarial vasculitis,
Vasculitis Vitiligo and Wegener's granulomatosis.
[0058] In other embodiments, compositions disclosed herein can include treating conditions
such as inflammatory conditions including, but not limited to, allergic disorders for example,
arthritis, inflammatory osteolysis, asthma, chronic inflammation (e.g., from chronic viral or
bacteria infections), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), Encephalitis,
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), psoriasis (e.g., plaque psoriasis, pustular psoriasis,
erythrodermic psoriasis, guttate psoriasis or inverse psoriasis), pulmonary fibrosis,
undifferentiated arthropathy, undifferentitated spondyloarthropathy. Other conditions can
include, but are not limited to respiratory conditions, for example, asthma, COPD,
                                                17

emphysema. Other lung conditions are contemplated, such as Cystic Fibrosis and
bronchiolitis obliterans.
RadiationProtectionand Cancer
[0059] In certain embodiments, compositions (e.g., construct compositions) and methods
concern modulating adverse effects of radiation on a subject. In some embodiments,
compositions and methods concern treating a subject having radiation therapy or radiation for
example, when administered to a subject having cancer or suspected of developing a
malignancy or for uncontrolled cellular growth. Other embodiments disclosed herein concern
treating a subject having been exposed to radiation, for example, by accident or by a
purposeful act in order to reduce adverse side effects of radiation treatment.
[0060] Some embodiments disclosed herein concern treatment of a subject undergoing
cancer therapies. In accordance with these embodiments, a subject undergoing cancer
therapies can be treated with a composition disclosed herein to reduce or prevent detrimental
affects of the treatment (e.g., from radiation and/or chemotherapy treatments). Cancer
treatments include, but are not limited to, treatment for bladder cancer, breast cancer, kidney
cancer, leukemia, lung cancer, myeloma, liposarcoma, lymphoma, tongue cancer, prostate
cancer, stomach cancer, colon cancer, uterine cancer, melanoma, pancreatic cancer, brain
cancer, eye cancer, skin cancer and other known cancers.
[0061] In other embodiments, compositions disclosed herein can be used to treat a subject
having cancer. Cancers contemplated for these embodiments can include, but are not limited
to, fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, chondrosarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma,
chordoma, angiosarcoma, endotheliosarcoma, lymphangiosarcoma, Kaposi's sarcoma,
Iymphangioendotheliosarcoma, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma,
rhabdomyosarcoma, rhabdosarcoma, colorectal carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer,
ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, melanoma, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma,
adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma,
papillary adenocarcinomas, cystadenocarcinoma, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic
carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma,
seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilms'tumor, cervical cancer, testicular tumor, lung
carcinoma, small cell lung carcinoma, bladder carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma, glioma,
astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, ependymoma, pinealoma,
                                                 18

hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, meningioma, neuroblastoma,
retinoblastoma, myeloma, lymphoma, leukemia, or other known cancer.
[0062] Other embodiments include regarding radioprotection and compositions disclosed
herein can concern treatment for trigeminal neuralgia, treatment for severe thyroid eye
disease, treatment for pterygium, treatment for pigmented villonodular synovitis, prevention
of keloid scar growth, prevention of heterotopic ossification, cosmetic, plastic or
reconstructive surgical application surgery (e.g., reducing scar formation), during
chemotherapy,in combination with hormone therapy, and/or as an immunotherapy
combination. In certain embodiments herein, compositions containing fusion polypeptides
can be used to reduce inflammation in a subject undergoing or having undergone plastic
surgery. Administration of such a composition may be used to reduce inflammation and
scarring of the subject.
[0063] Certain side effects can occur during radiation exposure and even as a side effect of
radiation therapy or chemotherapy.          Some embodiments herein concern reduction or
prevention of these side effects in a subject by treating the subject with compositions
disclosed herein. Compositions can include recombinant forms of AAT and/or recombinant
forms of AAT carboxyterminal peptides (e.g., 80 mer, 36 mer etc.). Side effects of radiation
therapy can include, but are not limited to, cellular damage, pain, swelling, local irritation,
fibrosis, scaring, loss of tissue integrity, increased tissue friability, difficulty in swallowing
and other symptoms associated with radiation treatment or exposure. Other side affects that
can be reduced or prevented concern side effects from total body irradiation (TBI), for
example during bone marrow transplantation. These side effects can include the above and in
addition, acute and chronic immunodeficiency and opportunistic infections.
[0064] Some embodiments disclosed herein concern treating a subject having or suspected of
developing prostate cancer. In accordance with these embodiments, a male subject having or
suspected of developing prostate cancer can be treated with compositions disclosed herein
before, during or after radiation and/or chemotherapy treatment(s) in order to reduce side
effects attributed to these therapies. For example, side effects can be, but are not limited to,
development of impotence or erectile dysfunction.
[0065] Other conditions contemplated herein include systemic lupus erythematosis (SLE, or
lupus), rheumatoid arthritis, sepsis, , systemic lupus erythematosis (SLE, or lupus),
rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, sepsis, autoimmune diseases,
                                                 19

atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, arthritis, muscular dystrophy, Downs syndrome,
multiple sclerosis, stroke, neurodegenerative disorders, other inflammatory diseases or
conditions and sero-negative spondyloarthropathies.
Graft Rejection and GraftSurvival
[0066] In other embodiments, recombinant or fusion polypeptides (e.g., Fc-AAT or Fc-AAT
fragment) contemplated herein can be used to treat a subject undergoing a transplant, such as
an organ or non-organ (e.g., cellular) transplant. In certain embodiments, cellular
transplantation can include bone marrow, islet cell (e.g., islet allograft), corneal cell, stem
cell, skin (e.g., cellular or larger), temporary cadaver transplants of skin (e.g., soft tissue,
facial or other) or conditions related to cellular transplant rejection such as graft versus host
disease (GVHD). Embodiments of the present invention provide for methods for
ameliorating symptoms or signs experienced by a subject having or in need of a transplant.
In accordance with these embodiments, symptoms or signs may include conditions associated
with graft versus host disease (GVHD), or graft rejection. In one example, methods disclosed
herein may be used to treat a subject undergoing bone marrow transplantation. In other
embodiments, methods disclosed herein may be used to treat a subject undergoing stem cell
or other cellular transplantation. In accordance with these embodiments, a subject may be
treated to reduce transplantation rejection, preserve the cells of a transplant and/or prolong
transplanted cell (graft) survival. Other embodiments can include treating a subject
undergoing an organ transplant such as a heart, lung, intestinal, liver, pancreas, kidney or
other organ transplant.
[0067]    In one example, methods disclosed herein may be used to treat a subject undergoing
bone marrow transplantation. In accordance with these embodiments, a subject can be
treated before, during or after bone marrow transplantation to reduce or prevent graft
rejection and/or GVHD in the subject.
[0068] In other embodiments, compositions and methods disclosed herein concern
prevention or reducing the occurrence of organ transplant rejection. In other embodiments,
compositions and methods disclosed herein concern prolonging organ transplantation.
Transplants contemplated herein can concern transplantation of kidney, heart, liver, soft
tissue, facial component transplant, intestinal transplants, and pancreas transplant. In
addition, compositions disclosed herein can concern reduction or prevention of symptoms
associated with transplantation of an organ or non-organ. Symptoms that can be reduced or
prevented by treating a subject undergoing a transplant with compositions disclosed herein
                                                  20

can include, graft rejection, kidney failure, lung failure, heart failure, mucosal ulcerations,
reduced islet function (increased glucose, diabetes mellitus), graft versus host disease
(GVHD), gastrointestinal (GI), ulceration, pulmonary failure, skin ulceration, coagulopathy,
CNS dysfunction, and coma.
[0069] Embodiments of the present invention provide methods for promoting prolonged
graft survival and function in a subject including administering to a subject in need thereof a
therapeutically effective amount of a composition including a substance of recombinant AAT
or fusion protein thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptible excipient.
[0070] In certain embodiments, the subject is a mammal. In some embodiments, the
mammal is a human. In yet other embodiments, the subject is a male, a female, a pregnant
female, an infant or a juvenile.
[0071] Yet other aspects of the present invention concern organ or cell preservation prior to
transplantation.    For example, cryoprotection or protection during transport or other
preservation method may be enhanced by exposing an organ, tissues or cells to compositions
disclosed herein. Certain embodiments herein concern using a composition disclosed herein
for preserving an organ, tissue or cells in preparation for transplantation or for cryoprotection.
In accordance with these embodiments, organs, tissue or cells can include any of those
disclosed herein, for example, pancreatic islet cells, stem cells, bone marrow cells, kidney,
liver, lung and other organ or cellular transplants.
[0072] In certain embodiments of the present invention, compositions disclosed herein can
further include combination therapy. For example, combination therapies can include one or
more of interferon, interferon derivatives including betaseron, beta-interferon, prostane
derivatives including iloprost, cicaprost; glucocorticoids including cortisol, prednisolone,
methyl-predniso lone, dexamethasone; immunsuppressives including cyclosporine A, FK-506,
methoxsalene, thalidomide, sulfasalazine, azathioprine, methotrexate; lipoxygenase inhibitors
comprising zileutone, MK-886, WY-50295, SC-45662, SC-41661A, BI-L-357; leukotriene
antagonists; peptide derivatives including ACTH and analogs thereof; soluble TNF-receptors;
TNF-antibodies; soluble receptors of interleukins, other cytokines, T-cell-proteins; antibodies
against receptors of interleukins, other cytokines, T-cell-proteins; and calcipotriols;
Celcept@, mycophenolate mofetil, and analogues thereof taken either alone or in
combination.
                                                 21

[0073] In certain embodiments, a subject having or suspected of having a myocardial
infarction can be administered a composition disclosed herein to ameliorate the symptoms or
side effects of the cardiac condition. In certain embodiments, compositions disclosed herein
can be used to reduce or prevent cardiac ventricular remodeling. Methods for treating any
condition disclosed herein can include administering a composition before, during or after a
cardiac event. In certain embodiments, compositions can be administered to a subject for a
period determined by health professional to have optimum benefit after a cardiac event has
occurred in a subject. For example, a subject may be treated with a composition for up to one
week, up to two weeks or more following an event. In certain embodiments, compositions
administered to a subject described herein can be 5-fold, 10-fold, 100-fold or 1,000 fold less
than using a commercially available AAT formulation (e.g., Aralast T,         Prolastin CTM), such
as .001 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg recombinant or AAT fusion molecule per dose.
Diabetes
[0074]    In addition, compositions disclosed herein may be administered to any subject
having diabetes to treat the disease in the subject. A subject having Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes
can be administered a composition disclosed herein to treat the disease or treat the disease
symptoms. These treatments can be combined with any treatment known in the art for
diabetes. In certain embodiments, compositions disclosed herein can be administered to a
subject at reduced levels (e.g., concentrations) compared to currently available commercial
formulations to treat a subject having diabetes. In accordance with these embodiments, a
subject having diabetes can be a subject having early onset diabetes Type 1 such as one
diagnosed within 5 years having with for example, detectible c-peptide levels, and/or with
detectible insulin production, and/or with residual islet cell function.
[0075] Other embodiments can concern using a composition disclosed herein to protect islet
cells in vivo (e.g., to preserve or rejuvenate islet cell function) or in vitro (e.g., during
transport for transplantation). It is contemplated that compositions disclosed herein can be
used to treat a subject having diabetes that has some remaining islet cell function and/or treat
islet cells prior to transplant in a subject to preserve islet cells. Therefore, a subject may be
treated before, during or after islet cell transplantation. In other embodiments, diabetes
treatments can include treating a subject having insulin resistant diabetes, Type I and Type II.
                                                   22

CardiacConditions
[0076] Some embodiments of the present invention comprise treating a subject having a
cardiac condition or undergoing cardiac intervention (e.g., surgery, preventative treatment).
In accordance with these embodiments, a subject having a cardiac condition may have one or
more of the following conditions including, but not limited to, myocardial infarction,
myocardial ischemia, chronic systemic arterial and venous hypertension, pulmonary arterial
and venous hypertension, congenital heart disease (with and without intracardiac shunting),
valvular heart disease, idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy, infectious and non-infectious
myocarditis, stress cardiomyopathy (as seen associated with critical care illnesses, physical
and emotional stress, and intracranial hemorrhage and stroke), septic cardiomyopathy, atrial
and ventricular arrhythmias, endocarditis, pericarditis, damage to heart muscle, cardioplegia,
cardiac arrest, acute myocardial infarction (AMI), myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury,
ventricular remodeling, concentric hypertrophy,eccentric hypertrophy and any other known
cardiac condition.
[0077] In certain embodiments, a subject having or suspected of having a myocardial
infarction can be administered a composition disclosed herein to ameliorate the symptoms or
side effects of the cardiac condition. In certain embodiments, compositions disclosed herein
can be used to reduce or prevent cardiac ventricular remodeling. Methods for treating any
condition disclosed herein can include administering a composition before, during or after a
cardiac event. In certain embodiments, compositions can be administered to a subject for a
period determined by health professional to have optimum benefit after a cardiac event has
occurred in a subject. For example, a subject may be treated with a composition for up to one
week, up to two weeks or more following an event. In certain embodiments, compositions
administered to a subject described herein can be 5-fold, 10-fold, 100-fold or 1,000 fold less
than using a commercially available AAT formulation (e.g., AralastT", Prolastin CTM), such
as .001 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg recombinant or AAT fusion molecule per dose.
GastrointestinalDisorders
[0078]   Some embodiments of the present invention include treating a subject having a
gastrointestinal order or condition (e.g., intermittent, solitary or chronic condition). In
accordance with these embodiments, a subject having a gastrointestinal condition may have
one or more of the following conditions including, but not limited to, inflammatory bowel
disease (e.g., IBS or IBD), ulcerative colitis (UC), Crohn's disease (CD), systemic
                                                 23

inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), allergy-linked bowel disease, bowel disease linked
to Type 1 diabetes, other colitis types (e.g., collagenous colitis, ischaemic colitis, diversion
colitis, indeterminate colitis), Behget's syndrome associated with inflammation of the bowels
and other bowel disorders. In certain embodiments, symptoms or side effects of bowel
disorders can be treated by compositions disclosed herein. For example, side effects of bowel
disorders include, but are not limited to, skin manifestations, weight loss, colon shortening,
intestinal mucosa, bowel or intestinal hyperpermeability. Certain embodiments can include
treating a subject having a bowel disorder with compositions disclosed herein to reduce or
prevent weight loss in a subject having the disorder.
BacterialConditions
[0079] Some embodiments of the present invention include treating a subject having a
bacterial infection. Other embodiments can include administering a composition disclosed
herein to prevent a bacterial infection in a subject. Bacterial infections contemplated herein
can include, but are not limited to, Gram negative or Gram positive bacteria or mycobacterial
organisms. Gram negative bacteria can include, but are not limited to, N. gonorrhoeae,N.
men ingitidi,M. catarrhalis,H. injiuenzae, E. coli, all Klebsiela spp., all Enterobacterspp.,
all Serratiaspp, all Salmonella spp., Proteus mirabilis,Proteus vulgaris, all Providencia
spp., all Morganellaspp., Pseudomonas aeruginosa,all Citrobacterspp., all Pasteurellaspp.,
all Aeromonas spp., Pseudomonas cepacia, all Shigella spp, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia,
all Acinetobacterspp., all Legionella spp., Y enterocolitica,other Yersinoiiosis, H. ducreyeii,
all Chlamyidia spp., Mycoplasma pneumonia, Mycoplasma hominis, Bacteroidesfragilis,P.
melaninogenica, all Moraxella spp., all Bortedella spp., and P. multocida.
[0080]    Mycobacteria contemplated herein can include, but are not limited to, M. bovis, M.
tuberculosis,Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) organisms, M. intracellulare,M. avium,
M. paratuberculosis,leprosy causing (M. leprae , M. flavascens, M. lepraemurium,M.
microti, M. chelonei, M. africanum,M. marinium, M. buruli,M. fortuitum, M. haemophilum,
M. kansasii,M. littorale,M.malmoense, M. marianum, M. simiae, M. szulgai, M. ulcerans,
M. gordonae,M. gastri,M. phlei, M. nonchromogenicum, M. smegmatis, M. terrae,M.
trivial, M. scrofulaceum, M. xenopi, M. gordonae,M. haemophilum, M. genavense, M.
simiae, M. vaccae.
[0081] Gram positive bacteria contemplated herein include, but are not limited to, C. tetani,
C. botulinum, C.difficile, GroupA, B C, and G Streptococcus,Streptococcus pneumonia,
                                                 24

 Streptococcus miller group, Viridans streptococcus, all Listeria spp., all Staphylococcus spp,
 S. aureus (MSSA), S. aureus (MRSA), S epidermidis, Enterococcusfaecalis,Enterococcus
faecium, all Clostridiumspp.,     C. diptheriea, C. jeikium, all Rhodococcus spp., all
 Leukonostoc spp. and Bacillus anthracis (e.g., that causes anthrax).
 [0082] In certain embodiments, compositions disclosed herein can be used to treat a subject
 having a bacterial condition, reducing or preventing onset of a bacterial associated condition.
 Viral Conditions
 [0083] Some embodiments of the present invention include treating a subject having a viral
 infection. Other embodiments can include administering a composition disclosed herein to
 prevent a viral infection or treat a viral infection in a subject. Viral infections contemplated
 herein can include, but are not limited to, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) AIDS,
 influenza virus (e.g., type A, B, C, influenza A HINI, H1N2, H3N2, H9N2, H7N2, H1ON7),
 Herpes zoster, Herpes simplex, human papilloma virus,Variola major virus (small pox),
 Lassa fever virus, avian flu, AIDS Related Complex, Chickenpox (Varicella),
 Cytomegalovirus, Colorado tick fever, Dengue fever, Ebola haemorrhagic fever, Hand, foot
 and mouth disease, Hepatitis, HPV, infectious mononucleosis, Mumps, Poliomyelitis,
 Progressive multifocal leukencephalopathy, Rabies, Rubella, SARS, viral encephalitis, viral
 gastroenteritis, viral meningitis, West Nile disease, Yellow fever, Marburg haemorrhagic
 fever, Measles and other viral-related disorders.
 [0084] Other embodiments disclosed herein concern reducing or preventing cancer induced
 by a virus by inhibiting viral replication and/or infection in a subject. Cancers induced by
 viruses can include, but are not limited to, Rous sarcoma induced cancer, human papilloma
 virus (HPV) induced cancer, polyoma induced cancer, Hepatitis B virus induced cancer,
 fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, chondrosarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma,
 angiosarcoma, chordoma, endotheliosarcoma, lymphangiosarcoma,
 Iymphangioendotheliosarcoma, mesothelioma, synovioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma,
 rhabdomyosarcoma, rhabdosarcoma, colorectal carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer,
 melanoma, prostate cancer, ovarian cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma,
 sebaceous gland carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma,
 hepatoma, cystadenocarcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas, bronchogenic carcinoma,
 medullary carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, seminoma, bile duct carcinoma, cervical cancer,
 Wilms' tumor, embryonal carcinoma, lung carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, testicular tumor,
                                                   25

bladder carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma, small cell lung carcinoma, craniopharyngioma,
medulloblastoma, astrocytoma, glioma, ependymoma, pinealoma, hemangioblastoma,
acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, menangioma, neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma,
myeloma, lymphoma, and leukemia. Yet other embodiments concern viral pneumonia and
bronchial pneumonia.
[0085] In certain embodiments, compositions disclosed herein can be used to treat a subject
having a viral infection, reducing or preventing onset of a viral associated condition. For
example, compositions disclosed herein can be used to treat a subject having a viral infection
to reduce transmission of the virus and reduce viral replication in the subject (e.g., influenza
or other disease transmitted from subject to subject).
[0086] In another exemplary embodiment, compositions disclosed herein can be used to treat
gout in a subject to reduce inflammation and production of uric acid crystals in a subject. For
this, a model of gouty arthritis can be employed based on roles of IL-1I in the inflammation
of gout (model previously presented using commercially available formulations). In this
model, MSU and C18 fatty acids can be mixed and injected into the subpatellar space of C57
Black 6 mice as a mouse model. Recombinant human Fc-AAT can be injected intra
articularly (i.a.) at 2 gg into the subpatellar space alone of the mice and examined. Into other
test group, mice can be injected with MSU/C18. In another set of mice, the combination of
MSU/C18 plus compositions disclosed herein can be injected. Knees of mice can be then be
examined for inflammation as done in the model with plasma-derived AAT. In one example,
the number of cells infiltrating the synovium can be observed.
Constructs of Various Peptides
[0087] Embodiments herein provide for generating and using recombinant AAT or
recombinants having one or more carboxyterminal peptides derived from AAT (e.g., a
carboxyternminal peptide of AAT found in the last 80 amino acids of AAT or a
carboxyterminal peptide of AAT found in the last 36 amino acids of AAT etc). In accordance
with these embodiments, fusion polypeptides can be generated that are linked to immune
molecules to for example, increase half-life of the peptide and/or use the immune molecule to
further direct the fusion polypeptide through immune molecule binding etc. Constructs
designed herein can be as active as commercially available formulations or more active in a
particular activity, for example, anti-inflammatory activities than a commercial formulation.
                                                  26

[0088] In one embodiment of the present invention, a composition may include constructs
for treating a subject in need of AAT therapy (e.g., mammalian derived AAT treatment or
supplementation) for example, administering a series of peptides including carboxyterminal
amino acid peptides corresponding to AAT and derivatives thereof        These peptides can
include, pentapetides including, FVFLM (SEQ ID NO:2), FVFAM (SEQ ID NO:3), FVALM
(SEQ ID NO:4), FVFLA (SEQ ID NO:5), FLVFI (SEQ ID NO:6), FLMII (SEQ ID NO:7),
FLFVL (SEQ ID NO:8), FLFVV (SEQ ID NO:9), FLFLI (SEQ ID NO:10), FLFFI (SEQ ID
NO:11), FLMFI (SEQ ID NO:12), FMLLI (SEQ ID NO:13), FIIMI (SEQ ID NO:14), FLFCI
(SEQ ID NO:15), FLFAV (SEQ ID NO:16), FVYLI (SEQ ID NO:17), FAFLM (18),
AVFLM (SEQ ID NO:19), and any combination thereof that is part of a fusion construct.
[0089] In other embodiments,       AAT    peptides  contemplated   for use   in constructs,
pharmaceutical compositions and methods herein are also intended to include any and all of
those specific AAT peptides of SEQ ID NO:1 or SEQ ID NO:33 (naturally-occurring AAT of
394 amino acids, the most common form is the M type with subtypes M1, M2, M3 etc. are
also contemplated herein) associated with the carboxyterminal amino acids.       All AAT
polypeptides are contemplated of use in methods disclosed herein, that possess anti
inflammatory activity and/or immune regulatory activity. Any combination of consecutive
amino acids simulating AAT or AAT-like activity may be used, such as amino acids ranging
from 315-394, amino acids ranging from 325-384, 358-394, 340-380 etc.          In addition,
combinations of consecutive amino acid sequences such as 5-mers, 10-mers, 15-mers, 20
mers, 25-mers, 30-mers, 35-mers etc. of the carboxyterminus can also be used. For example,
any combinations of consecutive amino acids of 5-mers,10-mers, 15-mers, 20-mers from
SEQ ID NO: 1 AAs 314-394 can be used in developing or purifying a construct contemplated
herein.
[0090] Certain embodiments concern generating a recombinant fusion polypeptide or protein
including linking an entire AAT molecule (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 1 or 33) or a peptide molecule
derived from the carboxyterminal amino acid region of AAT, to an IgG or fragment thereof
One common form of AAT is denoted by SEQ ID NO:33.             One construct contemplated
herein is referenced as SEQ ID NO:32 (e.g., whole AAT, a leader sequence and an Fc portion
of an immunoglobulin molecule) and SEQ ID NO:48 (whole AAT and an Fc portion of an
immunoglobulin molecule with a linker)     These constructs can be used as a dimer or as a
monomeric form in compositions disclosed herein. In accordance with these embodiments, a
                                             27

pharmaceutically acceptable composition can include a dimer of Fc-AAT or a monomer of
Fc-AAT or AAT cleaved from the Fc or combinations thereof, and a pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient. In addition, point mutations can be made in the Fc region to reduce the
flexibility of the hinge region and generate novel Fc-AAT molecules.
[0091] SEQ        ID    NO:33:        EDPQGDAAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSLGTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKLVDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEA
KKQINDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVNYIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFH
VDQATTVKVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLGNATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLE
NELTHDIITKFLENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQLGITKVFSNGADLSGVTE
EAPLKLSKAVHKAVLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKFNKPFVFLMIEQNTKS
PLFMG KVVNPTQK
[0092] In other embodiments, AAT protease binding domains can be mutated in order to
reduce or eliminate the protease function of the molecule and not inhibit elastase activity;
these molecules can be used in any construct contemplated herein. In certain embodiments, a
mutated AAT can be used to generate an AAT construct by methods disclosed herein. In
other embodiments, a mutated molecule (e.g., having reduced or essentially no protease
activity) retains its anti-inflammatory effects and/or immunomodulatory effects and can be
used as an anti-inflammatory molecule in a subject having a need for AAT therapy. One
skilled in the art would understand a non-protease binding domain of AAT as well as what is
termed the carboxyterminal last 80 amino acids of naturally-occurring AAT.
[0093] In each of the above-recited methods, al-antitrypsin or carboxyterminal peptide
derivatives thereof are contemplated for use in a composition herein.         These peptide
derivatives may include but are not limited to amino acid peptides containing the last 80
carboxyterminal      derived   amino acids   of AAT,     GITKVFSNGA      (SEQ   ID   NO:20),
DLSGVTEEAP (SEQ ID NO:21), LKLSKAVHKA (SEQ ID NO:22), VLTIDEKGTE (SEQ
ID NO:23),       AAGAMFLEAI         (SEQ   ID NO:24),    PMSIPPEVKF      (SEQ   ID NO:25),
NKPFVFLMIE (SEQ ID NO:26), QNTKSPLFMG (SEQ ID NO:27), KVVNPTQK (SEQ ID
NO:28),          LEAIPMSIPPEVKFNKPFVFLM                 (SEQ       ID      NO:29);        and
LEAIPMSIPPEVKFNKPFVF               (SEQ    ID  NO:30),    GADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKFNKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQK
                                               28

(SEQ ID NO:31), SEQ ID NO:34 or any combination thereof In certain embodiments, the
carboxyterminal peptides of AAT are 80%, or 85%, or 90%, or 95%, or 99% identical to the
naturally occurring M type amino acid sequence identified by SEQ ID NO. 33. In certain
embodiments, about 2, about 3, or about 4, or about 5 amino acids can vary (e.g., various
point mutations) from an 80-mer from the carboxy terminal of M type sequence.
[0094] Certain embodiments include compositions of the construct of SEQ ID NO: 32 or
SEQ ID NO: 48.          In accordance with these embodiments, the compositions can be
pharmaceutical compositions.
[0095] In certain embodiments, compositions of recombinant AAT or AAT-derived
carboxyterminal peptides capable of binding to SEC receptors or compositions with AAT
like activities may be administered to a subject in need thereof As disclosed herein the
carboxy terminal region of AAT includes the last 80 amino acids of SEQ ID NO:31 or SEQ
ID NO:33 or other human AAT molecule or other naturally occurring AAT molecule. In
other embodiments, peptides derived from AAT can include 5-mers, 10-mers, 20-mers, 25
mers, 30-mers, 35-mers, 40-mers, 50-mers, and up to an 80 mer of an AAT molecule wherein
any of the contemplated peptides have no significant serine protease inhibitor activity, are
derived from the carboxyterminus of AAT and are capable of being used for treating subjects
undergoing radiation or subjects exposed to large doses of radiation by accident or other
cause.
[0096] In one embodiment, a construct may include compounds that engage or associate
with the SEC receptor. In some of the recited methods, an AAT-mutant or AAT derived
peptide (e.g., mammalian derived) having no significant serine protease inhibitor activity is
contemplated for use within the compositions and uses of the present invention that can
include a series of peptides including carboxyterminal amino acid peptides corresponding to
AAT. In addition, combinations of amino acid 5-mers or 10-mers or 20-mers or 30-mers or
more can also be used. For example, one or more 5-mers or 10-mers or 20-mers etc can
include consecutive amino acids starting from AA 315 and ending with AA 394 of naturally
occurring AAT represented as SEQ ID NO: 1. As contemplated herein, the later half of a
sequence toward the carboxy end is referred to as the carboxyterminus. In certain
embodiments, the carboxyl domain of AAT going backwards from the carboxyl terminus is
defined as those amino acids most conserved among the difference species and do not
participate in the protease binding domain of AAT. In addition, in other embodiments, AAT
                                               29

protease binding domain can be mutated in order to reduce or eliminate the protease function
of the molecule and this molecule can be used in any composition contemplated herein. In
other embodiments, a mutated AAT-related molecule can retain its anti-inflammatory and/or
immunomodulatory effects. Also contemplated herein is that the carboxyl domain is the non
protease binding domain that has other AAT activities. One skilled in the art would
understand a non-protease binding domain of AAT.
[0097] In each of the above-recited methods, compositions herein may include peptides
derived from the carboxyterminus of AAT. In certain embodiments, AAT-associated
molecules used in the methods and compositions herein can include, but are not limited to,
compositions of SEQ ID NO:1, naturally occurring AAT (394 AA length molecule making
up approximately 90% of AAT isolated from serum), other AAT M-types or other AAT
molecules.
[0098] Of use herein, commercially available formulations for comparisons and/or controls
with recombinant of fusion molecules disclosed herein can include AralastTM (Baxter),
Zemaira TM (Aventis Behring), Prolastinfm or ProlastinCT M (Talecris), Aprotonin TM or
Trasylolm (Bayer Pharmaceutical Corporation), UlinistatinTM (Ono Pharmaceuticals, Inc.),
and inhalation and/or injectible AAT (Kamada, Ltd., Israel), or any other commercially
available AAT compositions or any combination thereof
[0099] Other embodiments concern mutants of human AAT where the mutant has increased
anti-inflammatory activity.     Any method known in the art for generating mutants is
contemplated.     Some embodiments include using site-directed mutageneis to generate a
hATT having no significant serine protease inhibitor activity (see Examples section and pEF
hAAT). In some embodiments, compositions can be a pharmaceutical composition having a
mutated human alpha-i antitrypsin (hAAT) wherein the AAT includes AAT with one or
more point mutations at AAT's protease-binding site within AAT's reactive center loop
(RCL).    These one or more point mutations can significantly reduces or eliminate serine
protease inhibition activity of the AAT compared to a control human AAT. Other methods
include disrupting the serine protease inhibiting region of hAAT by other disruption methods
such as heating hAAT, or generating another mutant such as an RCL mutant with a modified
proline to cysteine residue at position 357 within the RCL to eliminate or dramatically reduce
serine protease inhibitor activity. In certain embodiments, a fusion molecule can include
linking FC (e.g., IgGI, 2, 3 or4) to an AAT mutant having one or more point mutations at one
or more of amino acids within the RCL, (e.g., amino acids 355-363 of native AAT), wherein
                                               30

the AAT mutant has no significant serine protease inhibition activity and the RCL remains
intact.
PharmaceuticalCompositions
[00100] Embodiments herein provide for administration of compositions to subjects in a
biologically compatible form suitable for pharmaceutical administration in vivo. By
"biologically compatible form suitable for administration in vivo" is meant a form of the
active agent (e.g., pharmaceutical chemical, protein, gene, antibody etc of the embodiments)
to be administered in which any toxic effects are outweighed by the therapeutic effects of the
active agent. Administration of a therapeutically active amount of the therapeutic
compositions is defined as an amount effective, at dosages and for periods of time necessary
to achieve the desired result. For example, a therapeutically active amount of a compound
may vary according to factors such as the disease state, age, sex, and weight of the individual,
and the ability of antibody to elicit a desired response in the individual. Dosage regima may
be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response.
[00101] Pharmaceutical compositions containing AAT or peptide fragment thereof, or
analog thereof, or mutant thereof, or a functional derivative thereof (e.g., pharmaceutical
chemical, protein, peptide of some of the embodiments) may be administered to a subject, for
example by subcutaneous, intravenous, intracardiac, intracoronary, intramuscular, by oral
administration, by inhalation, transdermal application, intravaginal application, topical
application, intranasal or rectal administration. Depending on the route of administration, the
active compound may be coated in a material to protect the compound from the degradation
by enzymes, acids and other natural conditions that may inactivate the compound. In a
preferred embodiment, the compound may be orally administered. In another preferred
embodiment, the compound may be administered intravenously. In one particular
embodiment, the composition may be administered intranasally, such as inhalation.
[00102] Some embodiments disclosed herein concern using a stent or a catheter to deliver
one or more chemotherapeutic agents (e.g., along with compositions disclosed herein) to a
subject having or suspected being treated for cancer. Any stent or other delivery method
known in the art that can deliver one or more agents directly to tumor site is contemplated.
These delivery techniques can be used alone or in combination with other delivery methods.
[00103] A compound (e.g., a peptide, protein, fusion protein or mixture thereof) may be
administered to a subject in an appropriate carrier or diluent, co-administered with enzyme
                                                 31

inhibitors or in an appropriate carrier such as liposomes. The term "pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier" as used herein is intended to include diluents such as saline and aqueous
buffer solutions. It may be necessary to coat the compound with, or co-administer the
compound with, a material to prevent its inactivation. The active agent may also be
administered parenterally or intraperitoneally. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol,
liquid polyethylene glycols, and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of
storage and use, these preparations may contain a preservative to prevent the growth of
microorganisms.
[00104] Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use may be administered by
means known in the art. For example, sterile aqueous solutions (where water soluble) or
dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable
solutions or dispersion may be used.
[00105] Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating active compound (e.g.,
a compound that reduces serine protease activity) in the required amount in an appropriate
solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above, as required, followed by
filtered sterilization.
[00106]     Aqueous compositions can include an effective amount of a therapeutic compound,
peptide, epitopic core region, stimulator, inhibitor, and the like, dissolved or dispersed in a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or aqueous medium. Compounds and biological materials
disclosed herein can be purified by means known in the art. Solutions of the active
compounds as free-base or pharmacologically acceptable salts can be prepared in water
suitably mixed with a surfactant, such as hydroxypropylcellulose.
[00107] Upon formulation, solutions will be administered in a manner compatible with the
dosage formulation and in such amount as is therapeutically effective. The formulations are
easily administered in a variety of dosage forms, such as the type of injectable solutions
described above. It is contemplated that slow release capsules, timed-release microparticles,
and the like can also be employed. These particular aqueous solutions are especially suitable
for intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous and intraperitoneal administration.
[00108] The active therapeutic agents may be formulated within a mixture to comprise about
0.0001 to 1.0 milligrams, or about 0.001 to 0.1 milligrams, or about 0.1 to 1.0 or even about 1
to 10 gram per dose. Single dose or multiple doses can also be administered on an
appropriate schedule for a predetermined condition such as daily, bi-weekly, weekly, bi
                                                32

monthly etc. Pharmaceutical compositions are administered in an amount, and with a
frequency, that is effective to modulate side effects. The precise dosage and duration of
treatment may be determined empirically using known testing protocols or by testing the
compositions in model systems known in the art and extrapolating therefrom. Dosages may
also vary with the severity of the condition. In certain embodiments, the composition range
can be between 10 and 75 mg/kg introduced daily or weekly to a subject. A therapeutically
effective amount of al-antitrypsin, peptides, or drugs that have similar activities as al
antitrypsin or peptides can be also measured in molar concentrations and can range between
about 1 nM to about 2 mM.
[00109] In another embodiment, nasal solutions or sprays, aerosols or inhalants may be used
to deliver the compound of interest. Additional formulations that are suitable for other modes
of administration may include suppositories and pessaries. A rectal pessary or suppository
may also be used. In general, for suppositories, traditional binders and carriers may include,
for example, polyalkylene glycols or triglycerides; such suppositories may be formed from
mixtures containing the active ingredient in the range of 0.50%to 10%, preferably 1% - 2 %.
[00110] Liposomes or microparticles can be used as a therapeutic delivery system and can be
prepared in accordance with known laboratory techniques. In addition, dried lipids or
lyophilized liposomes prepared as previously described may be reconstituted in a solution of
active agent (e.g., nucleic acid, peptide, protein or chemical agent), and the solution diluted to
an appropriate concentration with a suitable solvent known to those skilled in the art. The
amount of active agent encapsulated can be determined in accordance with standard methods.
[00111] In some embodiments, pharmaceutical construct compositions concerns a construct
derived from an AAT molecule having no significant serine protease inhibitor activity but
having other al-antitrypsin activity or analog thereof may be used in a single therapeutic
dose, acute manner or a chronic manner to treat a subject. For example, the fusion
polypeptides contemplated herein can be a fusion polypeptide having no significant protease
inhibition activity.
[00112] In     certain embodiments,      compositions    herein  can be     administered   orally,
systemically,   via an implant, time released or slow-release           compositions (e.g.,    gel,
microparticles etc.), intravenously, topically, intrathecally, subcutaneously, by inhalation,
nasally, or by other means known in the art or a combination thereof
Expression Proteinsand Constructs
                                                 33

[00113] Once the target gene or portion of a gene has been determined, the gene can be inserted
into an appropriate expression system. The gene can be expressed in any number of different
recombinant DNA expression systems to generate large amounts of the polypeptide product,
which can then be purified and used in compositions and methods disclosed herein.
[00114] Examples of expression systems known to the skilled practitioner in the art include
bacteria such as E. coli, yeast such as Pichiapastoris,baculovirus, and mammalian expression
systems such as in Cos or CHO cells. A complete gene can be expressed or, alternatively,
fragments of the gene encoding portions of polypeptide can be produced.
[00115] The AAT gene or gene fragment encoding a fusion polypeptide may be inserted into
an expression vector by standard subcloning techniques. An E. coli expression vector may be
used which produces the recombinant polypeptide as a fusion protein, allowing rapid affinity
purification of the protein. Examples of such fusion protein expression systems are the
glutathione S-transferase system (Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ), the maltose binding protein
system (NEB, Beverley, MA), the FLAG system (IBI, New Haven, CT), and the 6xHis system
(Qiagen, Chatsworth, CA).
[00116] Amino acid sequence variants of the polypeptide may also be prepared. These may,
for instance, be minor sequence variants of the polypeptide which arise due to natural
variation within the population or they may be homologues found in other species. They also
may be sequences which do not occur naturally but which are sufficiently similar that they
function similarly and/or elicit an immune response that cross-reacts with natural forms of the
polypeptide. Sequence variants may be prepared by standard methods of site-directed
mutagenesis such as those described herein for removing the transmembrane sequence.
[00117] Amino acid sequence variants of the polypeptide may be substitutional, insertional
or deletion variants. Deletion variants lack one or more residues of the native protein which
are not essential for function or immunogenic activity, and are exemplified by the variants
lacking a transmembrane sequence.
[00118] The engineering of DNA segment(s) for expression in a prokaryotic or eukaryotic
system may be performed by techniques generally known to those of skill in recombinant
expression. It is believed that virtually any expression system may be employed in the
expression of the claimed nucleic acid sequences.
[00119] As used herein, the terms "engineered" and "recombinant" cells are intended to refer to
a cell into which an exogenous DNA segment or gene, such as a cDNA or gene has been
                                                 34

introduced through the hand of man. Therefore, engineered cells are distinguishable from
naturally occurring cells which do not contain a recombinantly introduced exogenous DNA
segment or gene. Recombinant cells include those having an introduced cDNA or genomic
gene, and also include genes positioned adjacent to a heterologous promoter not naturally
associated with the particular introduced gene.
[00120] To express a recombinant encoded protein or peptide, whether mutant or wild-type, in
accordance with some embodiments herein one could prepare an expression vector that
comprises one of the claimed isolated nucleic acids under the control of, or operatively linked to,
one or more promoters. To bring a coding sequence "under the control of' a promoter, one
positions the 5' end of the transcription initiation site of the transcriptional reading frame
generally between about 1 and about 50 nucleotides "downstream" (i.e., 3') of the chosen
promoter. The "upstream" promoter stimulates transcription of the DNA and promotes
expression of the encoded recombinant protein. This is the meaning of "recombinant
expression" in this context.
[00121] Many standard techniques are available to construct expression vectors containing the
appropriate nucleic acids and transcriptional/translational control sequences in order to achieve
protein or peptide expression in a variety of host-expression systems. Cell types available for
expression include, but are not limited to, bacteria, such as E. coli and B. subtilis transformed
with recombinant bacteriophage DNA, plasmid DNA or cosmid DNA expression vectors.
[00122] Certain examples of prokaryotic hosts are E. coli strain RR1, E. coli LE392, E. coli B,
E. coli X 1776 (ATCC No. 31537) as well as E. coli W31 10 (F-, lambda-, prototrophic, ATCC
No. 273325); bacilli such as Bacillus subtilis; and other enterobacteriaceae such as Salmonella
typhimurium, Serratia marcescens, and various Pseudomonas species.
[00123] In general, plasmid vectors containing replicon and control sequences which are
derived from species compatible with the host cell are used in connection with these hosts. The
vector ordinarily carries a replication site, as well as marking sequences which are capable of
providing phenotypic selection in transformed cells. For example, E. coli is often transformed
using pBR322, a plasmid derived from an E. coli species. pBR322 contains genes for ampicillin
and tetracycline resistance and thus provides easy means for identifying transformed cells. The
pBR plasmid, or other microbial plasmid or phage must also contain, or be modified to contain,
promoters which may be used by the microbial organism for expression of its own proteins.
                                                   35

[00124] In addition, phage vectors containing replicon and control sequences that are
compatible with the host microorganism may be used as transforming vectors in connection with
these hosts. For example, the phage lambda GEMTM-11 may be utilized in making a
recombinant phage vector which may be used to transform host cells, such as E. coli LE392.
[00125] Further useful vectors include pIN vectors (Inouye et al., 1985); and pGEX vectors, for
use in generating glutathione S-transferase (GST) soluble fusion proteins for later purification
and separation or cleavage. Other suitable fusion proteins are those with B-galactosidase,
ubiquitin, or the like.
[00126] Promoters that are most commonly used in recombinant DNA construction include the
p-lactamase (penicillinase),  lactose and tryptophan (trp) promoter systems. While these are the
most commonly used, other microbial promoters have been discovered and utilized, and details
concerning their nucleotide sequences have been published, enabling those of skill in the art to
ligate them functionally with plasmid vectors.
[00127] For expression in Saccharomyces, the plasmid YRp7, for example, is commonly used
(Stinchcomb et al., 1979; Kingsman et al., 1979; Tschemper et al., 1980). This plasmid already
contains the trpl gene which provides a selection marker for a mutant strain of yeast lacking the
ability to grow in tryptophan, for example ATCC No. 44076 or PEP4-1 (Jones, 1977). The
presence of the trpl lesion as a characteristic of the yeast host cell genome then provides an
effective environment for detecting transformation by growth in the absence of tryptophan.
[00128] Suitable promoting sequences in yeast vectors include the promoters for 3
phosphoglycerate kinase (Hitzeman et al., 1980) or other glycolytic enzymes (Hess et al., 1968;
Holland et al., 1978), such as enolase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, hexokinase,
pyruvate decarboxylase, phosphofructokinase, glucose-6-phosphate isomerase, 3
phosphoglycerate mutase, pyruvate kinase, triosephosphate isomerase, phosphoglucose
isomerase, and glucokinase. In constructing suitable expression plasmids, the termination
sequences associated with these genes are also ligated into the expression vector 3' of the
sequence desired to be expressed to provide polyadenylation of the mRNA and termination.
[00129] Other suitable promoters, which have the additional advantage of transcription
controlled by growth conditions, include the promoter region for alcohol dehydrogenase 2,
isocytochrome C, acid phosphatase, degradative enzymes associated with nitrogen metabolism,
and the aforementioned glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and enzymes responsible
for maltose and galactose utilization.
                                                   36

[00130] In addition to micro-organisms, cultures of cells derived from multicellular organisms
may also be used as hosts. In principle, any such cell culture is workable, whether from
vertebrate or invertebrate culture. In addition to mammalian cells, these include insect cell
systems infected with recombinant virus expression vectors (e.g., baculovirus); and plant cell
systems infected with recombinant virus expression vectors (e.g., cauliflower mosaic virus,
CaMV; tobacco mosaic virus, TMV) or transformed with recombinant plasmid expression
vectors (e.g., Ti plasmid) containing one or more coding sequences.
[00131] In a useful insect system, Autographa cahifornicanuclear polyhidrosis virus (AcNPV)
is used as a vector to express foreign genes. The virus grows in Spodopterafrugiperdacells.
The isolated nucleic acid coding sequences are cloned into non-essential regions (for example
the polyhedrin gene) of the virus and placed under control of an AcNPV promoter (for example
the polyhedrin promoter). Successful insertion of the coding sequences results in the
inactivation of the polyhedrin gene and production of non-occluded recombinant virus (i.e.,
virus lacking the proteinaceous coat coded for by the polyhedrin gene). These recombinant
viruses are then used to infect Spodopterafrugiperdacells in which the inserted gene is
expressed (e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4,215,051 (Smith)).
[00132] Examples of useful mammalian host cell lines are VERO and HeLa cells, Chinese
hamster ovary (CHO) cell lines, W138, BHK, COS-7, 293, HepG2, 3T3, RIN and MDCK cell
lines. In addition, a host cell strain may be chosen that modulates the expression of the inserted
sequences, or modifies and processes the gene product in the specific fashion desired. Such
modifications (e.g., glycosylation) and processing (e.g., cleavage) of protein products may be
important for the function of the encoded protein.
[00133] Different host cells have characteristic and specific mechanisms for the post
translational processing and modification of proteins. Appropriate cells lines or host systems
may be chosen to ensure the correct modification and processing of the foreign protein
expressed. Expression vectors for use in mammalian cells ordinarily include an origin of
replication (as necessary), a promoter located in front of the gene to be expressed, along with
any necessary ribosome binding sites, RNA splice sites, polyadenylation site, and transcriptional
terminator sequences. The origin of replication may be provided either by construction of the
vector to include an exogenous origin, such as may be derived from SV40 or other viral (e.g.,
Polyoma, Adeno, VSV, BPV) source, or may be provided by the host cell chromosomal
replication mechanism. If the vector is integrated into the host cell chromosome, the latter is
often sufficient.
                                                  37

[00134] The promoters may be derived from the genome of mammalian cells (e.g.,
metallothionein promoter) or from mammalian viruses (e.g., the adenovirus late promoter; the
vaccinia virus 7.5K promoter). Further, it is also possible, and may be desirable, to utilize
promoter or control sequences normally associated with the desired gene sequence, provided
such control sequences are compatible with the host cell systems.
[00135] A number of viral based expression systems may be utilized to produce molecules
contemplated herein, for example, commonly used promoters are derived from polyoma,
Adenovirus 2, and most frequently Simian Virus 40 (SV40). The early and late promoters of
SV40 virus are particularly useful because both are obtained easily from the virus as a fragment
which also contains the SV40 viral origin of replication. Smaller or larger SV40 fragments may
also be used, provided there is included the approximately 250 bp sequence extending from the
Hind III site toward the Bgl I site located in the viral origin of replication.
[00136] In certain cases where an adenovirus is used as an expression vector, the coding
sequences may be ligated to an adenovirus transcription/translation control complex, e.g., the
late promoter and tripartite leader sequence. This chimeric gene may then be inserted in the
adenovirus genome by in vitro or in vivo recombination. Insertion in a non-essential region of
the viral genome (e.g., region E l or E3) will result in a recombinant virus that is viable but not
invasive and capable of expressing proteins in infected hosts.
[00137] Specific initiation signals may also be required for efficient translation of the claimed
isolated nucleic acid coding sequences. These signals include the ATG initiation codon and
adjacent sequences. Exogenous translational control signals, including the ATG initiation
codon, may additionally need to be provided. One of ordinary skill in the art would readily be
capable of determining this and providing the necessary signals. It is well known that the
initiation codon must be in-frame (or in-phase) with the reading frame of the desired coding
sequence to ensure translation of the entire insert. These exogenous translational control signals
and initiation codons may be of a variety of origins, both natural and synthetic. The efficiency
of expression may be enhanced by the inclusion of appropriate transcription enhancer elements
or transcription terminators.
[00138] In certain embodiments, eukaryotic host cells can express desired polypeptides, and
are often used for that purpose. They can be obtained by introduction of a DNA molecule
disclosed herein, preferably in the form of an expression cassette, into the cells. In certain
embodiments, the expression cassette is integrated in the genome of the host cells of interest,
                                                  38

which can be in different positions in various host cells, and selection will provide for a clone
where the transgene is integrated in a suitable position, leading to a host cell clone with
desired properties in terms of expression levels, stability, and growth characteristics etc.
Selection for cells containing the DNA of the target molecules can be performed by selecting
for the selectable marker polypeptide, using routine methods known by one skilled in the art.
[00139] Host cells are from a stable clone that can be selected and propagated according to
standard procedures known to one skilled in the art. A culture of such a clone is capable of
producing polypeptides of interest.
[00140] Introduction of nucleic acid that is to be expressed in a cell, can be done by one of
several methods, which as such are known to one skilled in the art, also dependent on the
format of the nucleic acid to be introduced. Methods can include but are not limited to
transfection, infection, injection, transformation, and the like. Suitable host cells that express
the polypeptide of interest can be obtained by any selection process known in the art.
[00141] In certain embodiments, a DNA molecule of interest is integrated into the genome of
the eukaryotic host cell. Selection for the presence of the selectable marker polypeptide, and
hence for expression, can be performed during the initial obtaining of the cells. In certain
embodiments, a selection agent is present in the culture medium at least part of the time
during the culturing, either in sufficient concentrations to select for cells expressing the
selectable marker polypeptide or in lower concentrations. In certain embodiments, a selection
agent is no longer present in the culture medium during the production phase when the
polypeptide is expressed. A polypeptide of interest can be any peptide or protein, and may be
a monomeric protein or a (part of a) multimeric protein (e.g., dimer). A multimeric protein
comprises at least two polypeptide chains.
[00142] In certain aspects, provided are methods for generating a host cell expressing a
polypeptide of interest, the method comprising introducing into a plurality of precursor cells a
DNA molecule or an expression cassette of the invention, culturing the generated cells under
selection conditions and selecting at least one host cell producing the polypeptide of interest.
[00143] Also provided are methods for producing one or more polypeptides of interest, the
method comprising culturing host cells of the invention. Culturing a cell is done to enable it
to metabolize, and/or grow and/or divide and/or produce recombinant proteins of interest.
This can be accomplished by methods well known in the art, and includes but is not limited to
providing nutrients for the cell. Culturing can be done for instance in dishes, roller bottles or
                                                 39

in bioreactors, using batch, fed-batch, continuous systems such as perfusion systems, and the
like. In order to achieve large scale (continuous) production of recombinant proteins through
cell culture it is preferred in the art to have cells capable of growing in suspension, and it is
preferred to have cells capable of being cultured in the absence of animal- or human-derived
serum or animal- or human-derived serum components.
[00144] Conditions for growing or multiplying cells (see, e.g., Tissue Culture, Academic
Press, Kruse and Paterson, editors (1973)) and the conditions for expression of the
recombinant product are known to one skilled in the art. In general, principles, protocols, and
practical techniques for maximizing the productivity of mammalian cell cultures can be found
in Mammalian Cell Biotechnology: a Practical Approach (M. Butler, ed., IRL Press, 1991).
[00145]    In certain embodiments, the expressed protein is collected (isolated), either from the
cells or from the culture medium or from both. It may then be further purified using known
methods, e.g., filtration, column chromatography, etc., by methods generally known in the
art.
[00146] In eukaryotic expression, one will also typically desire to incorporate into the
transcriptional unit an appropriate polyadenylation site (e.g., 5'-AATAAA-3') if one was not
contained within the original cloned segment. Typically, the poly A addition site is placed about
30 to 2000 nucleotides "downstream" of the termination site of the protein at a position prior to
transcription termination.
[00147] For long-term, high-yield production of recombinant proteins, stable expression can be
used. For example, cell lines that stably express constructs encoding proteins may be
engineered. Rather than using expression vectors that contain viral origins of replication, host
cells may be transformed with vectors controlled by appropriate expression control elements
(e.g., promoter, enhancer, sequences, transcription terminators, polyadenylation sites, etc.), and a
selectable marker. Following the introduction of foreign DNA, engineered cells may be allowed
to grow for 1-2 days in an enriched media, and then are switched to a selective media. The
selectable marker in the recombinant plasmid confers resistance to the selection and allows cells
to stably integrate the plasmid into their chromosomes and grow to form foci which in turn may
be cloned and expanded into cell lines.
[00148] A number of selection systems may be used, including but not limited to, the herpes
simplex virus thymidine kinase, hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase, and adenine
phosphoribosyltransferase genes, in tk-, hgprt- or aprt- cells, respectively. Also, antimetabolite
                                                   40

resistance may be used as the basis of selection for dhfr, that confers resistance to methotrexate;
gpt, that confers resistance to mycophenolic acid; neo, that confers resistance to the
aminoglycoside G-418 and hygro, that confers resistance to hygromycin or any other method
known the art.
[00149] It is contemplated that the isolated nucleic acids of the invention may be
"overexpressed", e.g., expressed in increased levels relative to its natural expression in human
prostate, bladder or breast cells, or even relative to the expression of other proteins in the
recombinant host cell. Such overexpression may be assessed by a variety of methods, including,
but not limited to, radio-labeling and/or protein purification.      However, simple and direct
methods are preferred, for example, those involving one-step purification processes (e.g., Protein
A affinity), SDS-PAGE and protein staining or Western blotting, followed by quantitative
analyses, such as densitometric scanning of the resultant gel or blot. An increase in the level of
recombinant or fusion protein or peptide in comparison to the level in controls is indicative of
overexpression, as is a relative abundance of a target protein in relation to other proteins
produced by the host cell and, e.g., visible on a gel or readily isolatable by methods
contemplated herein.
[00150] It is contemplated that a construct generated herein using an immune molecule (e.g., Fc
portion) can be isolated using various affinity columns or affinity matrices (e.g., Protein A). In
certain embodiments, purification of constructs disclosed herein can include using a Protein A
column or Protein A matrix or the like (e.g., Pierce, Bio-Rad or other IgG purification/isolation
kits).   In certain embodiments, purification of constructs disclosed herein can be performed
using minimal steps to preserve anti-inflammatory or immune modulatory activity or other
AAT-related activities from degradation etc.          In accordance with these embodiments,
purification of constructs contemplated herein may be by a single step (e.g., protein A column
purification of Fc-AAT molecules) (See for example Kin-Ming et al. Protein Engineering vol.11
no.6 pp.495-500, 1998; expression/Fc/Fc-X/fusion protein; and diabody technologies).
[00151] It is contemplated herein that a nucleic acid encoding any protein or peptide capable of
reversibly binding to itself (e.g., through disulfide or other binding) can be used to generate
AAT constructs disclosed herein. These constructs can be used as doublets or dimers of AAT
for increased purification with reduced loss of function.         In certain embodiments, these
constructs can be used in compositions disclosed herein as a dimeric molecule for use in
therapeutic applications or for research purposes.          In accordance with some of these
embodiments, a fragment or portion of an immune molecule linked to AAT or the
                                                41

carboxyterminal fragment can be inert or essentially non-immunogenic unless increased
immugenicity is desired for treatment purposes. It is contemplated that constructs described
herein can be used to induce beneficial immune or inflammatory effects; or reduce or eliminate
adverse immune or inflammatory effects by for example, reducing the presence of certain pro
inflammatory cytokines.
Isolated Proteins
[00152] Certain embodiments pertain to isolated proteins, and biologically active peptides
thereof In one embodiment, native polypeptide can be isolated from cells or tissue sources by
an appropriate purification scheme using standard protein purification techniques. In certain
embodiments, the native polypeptide may be mutated or otherwise treated to reduce or
eliminate serine protease inhibitor activity and then isolated for use in constructs described
herein. In certain particular embodiments, serine protease inhibitor activity is reduced where
no significant activity remains. In another embodiment, polypeptides contemplated herein are
produced principally by recombinant DNA techniques. Alternative to recombinant
expression, a polypeptide can be synthesized chemically using standard peptide synthesis
techniques. Any of the peptide or protein molecules contemplated of use in compositions
disclosed herein can be compositions having serine protease inhibitor activity or having no
significant serine protease inhibitor activity depending on need of a subject or use to treat or
prevent a condition. For example, AAT compositions may be treated in order to reduce or
eliminate serine protease inhibitor activity or an AAT polypeptide may be isolated wherein
the polypeptide has reduced or no significant serine protease inhibitor activity. These AAT
molecules can then be used in constructs disclosed herein for rapid production and
purification.
[00153] An "isolated" or "purified" protein or biologically active portion thereof is
substantially free of cellular material or other contaminating proteins from the cell (e.g., from
a clone) or tissue source from which the protein is derived, or substantially free of chemical
precursors or other chemicals when chemically synthesized. Thus, protein that is substantially
free of cellular material includes preparations of protein having less than about 30%, 20%,
10%, or 5% (by dry weight) of heterologous protein (also referred to herein as a
"contaminating protein"). When the protein or biologically active portion thereof is
recombinantly produced, it is also preferably substantially free of culture medium. When the
protein is produced by chemical synthesis, it is preferably substantially free of chemical
precursors or other chemicals. For example, such preparations of the protein have less than
                                                 42

about 30%, 20%, 10%,5% (by dry weight) of chemical precursors or compounds other than
the polypeptide of interest.
[00154] In certain embodiments, nucleotides that encode polypeptides can be inserted to any
construct known in the art for generating a peptide or protein. These peptides can include a
polypeptide having a consecutive amino acid sequence corresponding to a portion or all of
the last 80 amino acids of carboxyterminus of AAT or AAT allele. Other useful proteins are
substantially identical to any portion of the carboxyterminus, and retain the functional
activity of the peptide of the corresponding naturally-occurring protein yet differ in amino
acid sequence due to natural allelic variation or mutagenesis. These polypeptides can be used
in any construct contemplated herein (e.g., immune molecule linked constructs (Fc))
[00155] Some compositions disclosed herein may be used as therapeutic agents in the
treatment of a physiological condition caused in whole or part, by excessive serine protease
activity. In addition, a physiological condition can be inhibited in whole or part. Peptides
contemplated herein may be administered in a composition as free peptides constructs or
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof Peptides may be administered to a subject as a
pharmaceutical composition, which, in most cases, can include the peptide construct and/or
pharmaceutical salts thereof with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
[00156] Biologically active portions of a polypeptide of the invention include polypeptides
including amino acid sequences sufficiently identical to or derived from the amino acid
sequence of the protein (e.g., the amino acid sequence shown in any of SEQ ID NOs:2 to 31,
34 which exhibit at least one activity of the corresponding full-length protein, other than
serine protease inhibition activity). A biologically active portion of a protein of the invention
can be a polypeptide, which is, for example, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40 or more amino acids in length.
Moreover, other biologically active portions in which other regions of the protein are deleted,
can be prepared by recombinant techniques and evaluated for one or more of the functional
activities of the native form of a polypeptide disclosed herein. Any of these polypeptides can
be linked to an immune molecule wherein the peptide retains anti-immune and or anti
inflammatory activities or serine protease inhibition activities.
[00157] Variants of AAT molecules having no significant serine protease activity can be
generated by mutagenesis, e.g., discrete point mutation or truncation. For example, a point
mutation may be generated in AAT or peptide derivative thereof that still leaves the reactive
center loop intact (RCL) while interfering with or preventing serine protease binding
                                                43

capabilities with the AAT or peptide but retaining its ability to modulate radiation adverse
effects. An agonist can retain substantially the same, or a subset, of the biological activities of
the naturally occurring form of the protein except no significant serine protease activity
remains. An antagonist of a protein can inhibit one or more of the activities of the naturally
occurring form of the protein by, for example, competitively binding to a downstream or
upstream member of a cellular signaling cascade which includes the protein of interest. Thus,
specific biological effects can be elicited by treatment with a variant of limited function.
Treatment of a subject with a variant having a subset of the biological activities of the
naturally occurring form of the protein can have fewer side effects in a subject relative to
treatment with the naturally occurring form of the protein.
Fusion Polypeptides
[00158] In certain embodiments, agents such as AAT and/or analog thereof, or peptide
derivative or fragment thereof may be part of a fusion polypeptide (AAT-related molecules).
In certain examples, a fusion polypeptide may include AAT (e.g., naturally occurring
mammalian a l -antitrypsin) or peptide fragment thereof and a different amino acid sequence
or peptide linked to or associated with the AAT-related molecules that can be an
immunofragment such as an IgG fragment (e.g., Fc or mutant thereof). In addition, a fusion
polypeptide disclosed herein can include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, excipient or
diluents for delivery to a subject in need thereof. Any known methods for generating a fusion
protein or fusion peptide are contemplated herein.
[00159] In yet another embodiment, AAT polypeptide or peptide fusion protein can be a
GST fusion protein in which is fused to the C-terminus of GST sequences. Fusion expression
vectors and purification and detection means are known in the art. Expression vectors can
routinely be designed for expression of a fusion polypeptide of the invention in prokaryotic
(e.g., E. coli) or eukaryotic cells (e.g., insect cells (using baculovirus expression vectors),
yeast cells or mammalian cells) by means known in the art. In yet another embodiment, a
nucleic acid of the invention can be expressed in mammalian cells using a mammalian
expression vector as described in the art. In other embodiments, AAT polypeptide can be a
his-tagged fusion molecule.
Clones
[00160] Other embodiments disclosed herein can include creating and isolated clones of
fusion or recombinant molecules disclosed herein. In certain embodiments, a clone
                                                   44

contemplated herein can be from an Fc-AAT molecule (e.g., full length AAT or peptide
fragment thereof) with linker region having increased activity compared to control AAT (e.g.,
commercially available or native isolated AAT). In other embodiments, other clones concern
an IgG2 molecule linked to AAT or fragment derivative thereof
Combination Therapies
[00161] Any of the embodiments detailed herein may further include one or more a
therapeutically effective amount of cancer-related medications. These therapies can include,
but are not limited to, aspirin and other antiplatelet therapy including for example,
clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor, abciximab, eptifibatide, tirofiban; heparin and derivatives;
direct thrombin inhibitors or Xa inhibitors; warfarin; angiotensin converting enzyme
inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers; beta- and alpha-adrenergic receptor blockers;
calcium channel blockers; HMGCoA reductase inhibitors (e.g., statins); niacin and
derivatives; fenofibrate; fish oil; aldosterone blockers; hydralazine and nitroderivates;
phosphodiesterase inhibitors; direct guanylil cyclase activators, anti-microbial drugs, anti
inflammatory agent, immunomodulatory agent, or immunosuppressive agent or combination
thereof
[00162] Examples of anti-bacterial agents include, but are not limited to, penicillins,
quinolonses, aminoglycosides, vancomycin, monobactams, cephalosporins, carbacephems,
cephamycins, carbapenems, and monobactams and their various salts, acids, bases, and other
derivatives.
[00163] Anti-fungal agents contemplated of use herein can include, but are not limited to,
caspofungin, terbinafine hydrochloride, nystatin, amphotericin B, griseofulvin, ketoconazole,
miconazole nitrate, flucytosine, fluconazole, itraconazole, clotrimazole, benzoic acid,
salicylic acid, and selenium sulfide.
[00164] Anti-viral agents contemplated of use herein can include, but are not limited to,
valgancyclovir, amantadine hydrochloride, rimantadin, acyclovir, famciclovir, foscamet,
ganciclovir sodium, idoxuridine, ribavirin, sorivudine, trifluridine, valacyclovir, vidarabin,
didanosine, stavudine, zalcitabine, zidovudine, interferon alpha, and edoxudine.
[00165] Anti-parasitic agents contemplated of use herein can include, but are not limited to,
pirethrins/piperonyl butoxide, permethrin, iodoquinol, metronidazole, diethylcarbamazine
citrate, piperazine, pyrantel pamoate, mebendazole, thiabendazole, praziquantel, albendazole,
proguanil, quinidine gluconate injection, quinine sulfate, chloroquine phosphate, mefloquine
                                                 45

hydrochloride, primaquine phosphate, atovaquone, co-trimoxazole,
(sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim), and pentamidine isethionate.
[00166]    Immunomodulatory agents can include for example, agents which act on the
immune system, directly or indirectly, by stimulating or suppressing a cellular activity of a
cell in the immune system, (e.g., T-cells, B-cells, macrophages, or antigen presenting cells
(APC)), or by acting upon components outside the immune system which, in turn, stimulate,
suppress, or modulate the immune system (e.g., hormones, receptor agonists or antagonists,
and neurotransmitters); other immunomodulatory agents can include immunosuppressants or
immunostimulants. Anti-inflammatory agents can include, for example, agents which treat
inflammatory responses, tissue reaction to injury, agents that treat the immune, vascular, or
lymphatic systems or any combination thereof
[00167] Anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory drugs or agents contemplated of use
herein can include, but are not limited to, interferon derivatives, e.g., betaseron, p-interferon;
prostane derivatives, iloprost, cicaprost; glucocorticoids such as cortisol, prednisolone,
methylprednisolone, dexamethasone; immunsuppressive agents such as cyclosporine A, FK
506, methoxsalene, thalidomide, sulfasalazine, azathioprine, methotrexate; lipoxygenase
inhibitors, e.g., zileutone, MK-886, WY-50295, SC-45662, SC-41661A, BI-L-357;
leukotriene antagonists; peptide derivatives for example ACTH and analogs; soluble TNF
(tumor necrosis factor)-receptors; TNF-antibodies; soluble receptors of interleukines, other
cytokines, T-cell-proteins; antibodies against receptors of interleukins, other cytokines, and
T-cell-proteins.
[00168] Other agents of use in combination with compositions herein can be molecules
having serine protease inhibitor activity. For example other serine protease inhibitors
contemplated of use herein can include, but are not limited to, leukocyte elastase, thrombin,
cathepsin G, chymotrypsin, plasminogen activators, and plasmin.
[00169] In addition, other combination compositions of methods disclosed herein can
include certain antibody-based therapies. Non-limiting examples include, polyclonal anti
lymphocyte antibodies, monoclonal antibodies directed at the T-cell antigen receptor
complex (OKT3, T10B9), monoclonal antibodies directed at additional cell surface antigens,
including interleukin-2 receptor alpha. In certain embodiments, antibody-based therapies may
be used as induction therapy in combination with the compositions and methods disclosed
herein.
                                                46

[00170] Subjects contemplated herein can include human subjects, male or female, adult or
child, infant, or fetus, or other subjects such as non-human subjects, including but not limited
to, primates, dogs, cats, horses, cows, pigs, guinea pigs, birds and rodents.
AAT
[00171] Human AAT is a single polypeptide chain with no internal disulfide bonds and only a
single cysteine residue normally intermolecularly disulfide-linked to either cysteine or glutathione.
One reactive site of AAT contains a methionine residue, which is labile to oxidation upon exposure
to tobacco smoke or other oxidizing pollutants. Such oxidation reduces the elastase-inhibiting
activity of AAT; therefore substitution of another amino acid at that position, e.g., alanine, valine,
glycine, phenylalanine, arginine or lysine, produces a form of AAT which is more stable. Native
AAT can be represented by the formula of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 33 or other known naturally-occurring
AAT molecules found in mammalian subjects.
[00172] Any means known for producing molecules (e.g., fusion or recombinant molecules)
disclosed herein is contemplated (e.g., in mammalian cells, by bacteria, by fungi, by algae or other
organisms or produced in plants).
Kits
[00173] In still further embodiments, kits for convenient use with compositions, constructs
(e.g., recombinant and/or fusion molecules) and methods described above are contemplated.
Kits may include AAT fusion or recombinant constructs (e.g., Fc-AAT; Fc-mutant AAT, Fc
AAT peptide fragment, IgG2 mutant linked to AAT or carboxyterminal derivative of AAT),
constructs of one or more peptides derived from AAT, a mutant AAT construct composition,
a mutant AAT molecule associated with a gene therapy delivery system or other
combinations. Small molecules, proteins or peptides may be employed for use in any of the
disclosed compositions. In addition, other agents such as anti-bacterial agents,
immunosuppressive agents, anti-inflammatory agents may be provided in the kit. Kits can
include, suitable container means (e.g., vessel, vial, tube etc), a protein or a peptide or analog
agent, and optionally one or more additional agents.
[00174] The kits may further include a suitably aliquoted construct composition of the
encoded protein or polypeptide antigen, a clone for expressing a construct disclosed herein,
whether labeled or unlabeled, as may be used to prepare a construct described herein of use in
compositions disclosed herein and for therapeutic applications described.
                                                 47

[00175] Containers of the kits will generally include at least one vial, test tube, flask, bottle,
syringe or other container means or other delivery device (e.g., a stent or catheter).A kit will also
generally contain a second, third or other additional container into which other combination
agents may be placed. Such containers may include injection or blow-molded plastic containers
into which the desired vials are retained.
[00176] In certain embodiments, a kit can include a composition including, but not limited
to, constructs of AAT, AAT fragment, or an AAT analog or polypeptide, having no
significant serine protease inhibitor activity. In accordance with these embodiments, a kit can
contain AAT or an analog thereof having no significant serine protease inhibitor activity.
EXAMPLES
[00177] The following examples are included to illustrate various embodiments. It should
be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the examples which
follow represent techniques discovered to function well in the practice of the claimed
methods, compositions and apparatus. However, those of skill in the art should, in light of
the present disclosure, appreciate that changes may be made in the some embodiments which
are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and
scope of the invention.
Generation of Expression Plasmid for Production of Recombinant human AAT
Example 1
[00178] In one exemplary method, Fc-AAT constructs can be generated as indicated in Fig.
1. For example, human AAT sequences can be inserted into an expression vector, pCAGGS.
In this exemplary method, human AAT cDNA of 1260 base pairs was isolated from a human
liver library and inserted into pCAGGS as illustrated in Fig. 1. Other AAT molecules or
peptide fragments thereof can be used in place of the 1260 bp sequence if desired. In this
example, Chinese Hamster Ovarian (CHO) cells were transfected with the plasmid to
generate a cell capable of producing the construct. Using limiting dilution, AAT clones were
selected and grown in serum free media. The supernatants were collected, pooled and
analyzed for AAT fusion molecules. Using an antibody to human AAT, a band of about 55
kDa was observed on Western blots (data not shown). In this example, a human IgGI Fc
receptor was used in order to purify recombinant AAT using the Protein A. Clones producing
the fusion molecule were identified and aliquots were frozen for future use.
                                                  48

Example 2
[00179] In another exemplary method, constructs depicted in Figs. 1 and 2A can be purified
and used for methods or therapeutic treatment for any condition known related to
commercially available AAT compositions or other disclosed AAT compositions. In certain
embodiments, a dimer of AAT or an AAT fragment linked to an immune molecule can be
used.
[00180] In certain exemplary methods, human Fc IgG plasmids (e.g., IgGI, IgG2, IgG3,
IgG4, and also IgD etc) can be purchased from Qiagen (e.g., IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, and
also IgD etc). The human cDNA was excised and inserted into the human Fc vector via PCR
cloning. The in-frame sequence was performed for validation. The plasmid was transfected
into CHO cells and after limiting dilutions to obtain single clones, several stable clones were
isolated. The stable clones were expanded and further selected using serum-free medium.
Large scale cell culture was performed and the supernatants collected and pooled.
[00181] The supernatant constructs were purified using a single-step Protein A matrix.
Hhuman Fc-AAT was eluted using glycine (pH 2.4) and then rapidly neutralized to pH 7.4.
SDS PAGE revealed a single band under reducing conditions. In one exemplary method, the
purified Fc-AAT was compared with commercially available Aralast T M for inhibition of
elastase activity. Clones having an Fc-AAt construct were identified, expanded and aliquots
were frozen and stored for later use.
[00182] Purification of human AAT Fc: A Western blot of the fusion molecules
demonstrated bands (about 170 kDa) that represented an intact dimer of two Fc-AAT
molecules. Other lanes on the Western blot represented when all of the disulfide bonds were
broken in the fusion molecules to form 2 monomeric molecules of FC-AAT. Both non
reducing gels as well as reducing gels demonstrated high level of purity of the AAT
constructs. Therefore, it was demonstrated that Fc-AAT can be purified in a single step from
a mammalian cell culture supernatant using protein A chromatography.
[00183] Fig. 3 represents an anti-inflammatory model of the effects of fusion molecules
described herein on cytokine expression. In this example, IL-8 expression is measured in the
presence or absence of LPS. This model is a well-known model for measuring inflammatory
activity in a cell using the stimulator LPS. Human blood neutraphils (3 x 106 cells/ml) were
incubated for 6 hours alone or in the presence of LPS (10 ng/ml), Fc-AAT (rAAT) at 10
micrograms per milliliter or a combination of LPS and Fc-AAT. IL-8 levels were measured
                                               49

in the culture supernatants (N=3). Neutrophils treated with LPS in the presence of Fc-AAT
demonstrated significantly reduced levels of IL-8 compared to LPS alone. Therefore, Fc
AAT demonstrated anti-inflammatory activity.
[00184] In certain embodiments disclosed herein, Fc-AAT constructs can have reduced or
insignificant serine protease inhibition activity. Other fusion molecules generated herein
contain serine protease inhibition activity.
Example 3
[00185] Fig. 4 represents a histogram plot using a range of concentrations of a construct
described herein on stimulation of an anti-inflammatory molecule, IL-I receptor antagonist
(IL-iRa). In this exemplary method, neutronphil cells were incubated with decreasing
concentrations of a fusion molecule generated herein (e.g., Fc-AAT having a linker region).
A control sample was used to demonstrate comparison. These molecules are about 100 times
more active than a comparable amount of a commercial formulation (e.g., Aralast T M ). N=2 in
this experiment.
Example 4
[00186] Construction of truncated variants of Fc-AAT. In certain exemplary
embodiments, protease cleavage of AAT can be a simple insertion of a protease site within
the sequence of AAT, for example, tobacco mosaic virus protease. Insertion of the protease
recognition site generates a truncated carboxyl end of AAT. This site is upstream from a
Carboxy-36-terminal peptide of naturally-occurring AAT (see for example, Fig. 5):
SIPPEVKFNKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQK (SEQ.ID NO. 34)
[00187] These truncated AAT molecules are capable of inhibiting LPS-induced IL-i , IL-6
and TNFa. A bivalent truncated fusion molecule can be superior to the peptide itself in terms
of increased plasma half-life. Given the likelihood that natural AAT is found in the lipid rafts
of the cell membrane, it would be unlikely that the insertion would be at the N-terminus but
rather the C-terminus. Therefore, having the C-terminal 36 amino acids linked to Fc for a
bivalent structure will likely be more effective in the lipid rafts. It was demonstrated that the
C-36 peptide reduces 18-hour LPS-induced IL-1P at concentrations from 120 gg/mL to
30 gg/mL (data not shown).
[00188] The size of the peptide (approximately 4 kDa) will likely have a short half-life
therefore, in certain embodiments, it will be formulated with a carrier. Therefore an, Fc
                                                 50

invariant region of human IgGI domain, also called the Fe domain, named for its ability to
bind to the complement receptor (FcR) can be used. One advantage of a fusion protein is that
it prolongs the half-life in a subject's circulation. Here, there are at least two distinct
advantages for the Fc fusion proteins: 1) Easy purification from crude cell supernates using
Protein A affinity chromatography; and 2) Fc fusion proteins can be used to treat several
diseases in humans and as such, have an established safety record. As illustrated, the effect
of other truncated versions of Fc-AAT can readily be assessed. The protease cleavage with,
for example, tobacco mosaic virus protease will be performed on the CHO cell supernatants.
The mixture will then be applied to a Protein A column and fractions eluted with an acidic
buffer, followed by rapid neutralization. Certain truncated Fc-AAT won't have anti-elastase
activit. For example, the 36-C peptide does not contain this activity. Therefore, activities of
these molecules will be something other than serine protease inhibition activity. These
truncated molecules can be larger than the C-36 molecule, such as C-80 or C-60 etc as
illustrated in Fig. 5.
[00189] Cleavage of the Fc domain. Another cleavage site can be that of the Fc itself, in
order to remove the Fc fragment from the aAT or AAT-derived peptide, if desired. This site
generates a monomeric from of AAT or truncated AAT. However, the enzyme for Fc-IgG1
differs from that of Fc-IgG2 and other IgG molecules contemplated herein.
[00190] A fusion protein of the N-terminus. A construct of N-terminal AAT is a novel
concept that is based on data demonstrating that the anti-inflammatory (or anti-immune)
properties of AAT are independent of the elastase inhibition property. Thus, using the N
terminal for an inframe construction facilitates the formation of a molecule with a bi-valent
C-terminal. For each construct, the expression in CHO is essential as glycosylation is an
important component of the molecule. Therefore, CHO cells will be used for the expression
of wild-type as well as truncated Fc-AAT.
[00191] Purification and assays of truncated Fc-AAT. In the case of a protease insertion
site, the protease to cleave the molecule can be introduced first and then use Protein A to
isolate only fragments. That would yield a near pure form of product. In certain methods,
such as in the case of the Fc cleavage site, the molecule can be purified on Protein A, add the
Fc cleavage protease and then remove the Fc fragment on protein A leaving the remaining
peptide or protein nearly pure.
                                                  51

HI:\szp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\16298512_l.docx-1801 2018
 100192] Fig. 7 represents a histogram plot of production of IL-I Receptor antagonist (IL-Ra) from
human blood monocytes in the presence of Fc-AAT (SEQ ID NO: ) in the presence of Polyl:C (50
gg/ml) (N=1).
 100193] In one exemplary experiment, human blood monocytes were incubated with increasing
concentrations of recombinant Fc-AAT or Prolastin C, (a commercially available form of AAT) in
the presence of Polyl:C (50 gg/ml) which mimics a viral infection by inducing large amounts of
interferon. In certain cases, those skilled in the art view this model (using Polyl:C) as a more relevant
model than using LPS. The concentrations of Fc-AAT and the commercially available AAT
formulation ranged from 0.008 to 50 gg/ml. A superior effect was observed on induction of an anti
inflammatory molecule, IL-I receptor antagonist (IL-IRa) by Fc-AAT was observed. Fig.7 represents
an exemplary histogram plot demonstrating that at a concentration of 10 gg/ml and 50 gg/ml, the Fc
AAT fusion molecule (with linker) induced about a 1.5 to 2 fold increase in IL-iRa compared to
Prolastin C.
100194] Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the
exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
 100195] The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or admission or
any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it) or known matter
forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification
relates.
All of the COMPOSITIONS and METHODS disclosed and claimed herein may be made and executed
without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the COMPOSITIONS and
METHODS have been described in terms of preferred embodiments, it will be apparent to those of
skill in the art that variation may be applied to the COMPOSITIONS and METHODS and in the steps
or in the sequence of steps of the METHODS described herein without departing from the concept,
spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically, it will be apparent that certain agents which are
both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while
the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent
to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit, scope and concept of the invention as
defined by the appended claims.
                                                              52

WHAT IS CLAIMED:
1.      A fusion polypeptide comprising consecutive amino acids which, beginning at the
amino terminus of the protein, correspond to consecutive amino acids present in (i) alpha-i
antitrypsin or carboxyterminal fragment thereof, (ii) a peptide linker, and (iii) an immune
fragment, wherein the consecutive amino acids (i) remain bound to (iii) when purified.
2.      The fusion protein of claim 1, wherein the immune fragment comprises an Fc
fragment.
3.      The fusion protein of claim 2, wherein the Fc fragment comprises IgG2.
4.      A nucleic acid construct comprising:
        a nucleic acid encoding alpha-I antitrypsin (AAT) or fragment or peptide cleavage
        molecule thereof;
        a linker; and
        a nucleic acid encoding an immune fragment wherein the immune fragment is an
        immunoglobulin molecule.
5.      The construct of claim 4, wherein the nucleic acid encoding AAT comprises a nucleic
acid encoding naturally occurring AAT (SEQ ID NO: 1).
6.      The construct of claim 4, wherein the nucleic acid encoding the AAT peptide
cleavage molecule comprises a nucleic acid encoding one or more carboxyterminal fragments
of naturally occurring AAT.
7.      The construct of claim 4, wherein the carboxyterminal fragment comprises the last 80
amino acids of SEQ ID NO:1, or 10 or more consecutive amino acids thereof.
8.      The construct of claim 6, wherein the carboxyterminal fragment comprises the amino
acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:34.
9.      The construct of claim 4, wherein the construct encodes the polypeptide of claim 2.
10.     The construct of claim 4, wherein the immune fragment comprises an IgGI, IgG2,
IgG3, IgG4 or IgD fragment.
11.     The construct of claim 4, wherein the construct is formed by linking AAT or a
carboxyterminal fragment thereof through its N-terminal end to the immune fragment.
                                               53

12.     The construct of claim 4, wherein the construct encodes the polypeptide of SEQ ID
NO:48
13.     A recombinant cell clone comprising the nucleic acid construct of claim 4 or fusion
polypeptide of claim 1.
14.     A process for purifying a fusion polypeptide of claim 2, from a mixture of proteins or
peptides comprising:
        a.     exposing the mixture of proteins or peptides to protein A associated with a
matrix and;
         b.    allowing immune fragments of the construct or fusion molecules to associate
with protein A associated with the matrix;
        c.     removing unbound proteins or peptides of the mixture; and
        d.     eluting the proteins or peptides from protein A using competitive binding
molecule.
15.      The process of claim 14, wherein the immune fragment is cleaved from the construct
or fusion molecule.
16.     The process of claim 14, wherein the competitive binding molecule is an Fc receptor.
17.     The process of claim 14, wherein the construct or fusion molecule recovered has at
least 10 % increased anti-inflammatory activity compared to a plasma derived AAT
preparation.
18.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising, a fusion polypeptide or protein of claim 1
and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
19.     The composition of claim 18, wherein the fusion polypeptide is present in the
composition in a therapeutically effective amount.
20.     A vector comprising the nucleic acid construct of claim 4.
21.     A transformed cell comprising the vector of claim 20.
22.     An isolated preparation of expressed inclusion bodies comprising the fusion protein of
claim 1.
                                               54

23.      A method for treating a condition in a subject, the method comprising administering
to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a composition of a fusion polypeptide of
claim 1; and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or salt thereof, wherein the administration
treats the condition in the subject.
24.      The method of claim 23, wherein the condition is Type I or Type II diabetes.
25.      The method of claim 23, wherein the subject is undergoing an organ or non-organ
transplant and the treatment modulates transplant rejection in the subject.
26.      The method of claim 23, wherein the condition is AAT deficiency in the subject and
wherein the treatment provides AAT replacement therapy to the subject.
27.      The method of claim 23, wherein the condition is gout, and wherein the
administration of the composition modulates gout in the subject.
28.      The method of claim 23, wherein the condition is a cardiac condition, and wherein the
administration modulates the cardiac condition in the subject.
29.      The method of claim 28, wherein administration of the composition to the subject
reduces cardiac remodeling compared to a control subject not having the composition.
30.      The method of claim 23, wherein the condition is an infection, and wherein the
administration modulates the infection in the subject.
31.      The method of claim 30, wherein the infection is a viral or bacterial infection.
32.      The method of claim 23, wherein the condition is side effects of reconstructive or
plastic surgery and the composition reduces inflammation in the subject.
33.      The method of claim 23, wherein the condition is excess inflammation related to the
condition and the composition reduces inflammation in the subject.
34.      The method of claim 23, wherein administration comprises one or more of
intravenous, intratracheal, intradermal, intranasally, by inhalation, subcutaneous, topical,
vaginal or other mode of administraton.
35.      The method of claim 23, wherein the condition is an autoimmune condition and the
composition treats the autoimmune condition in the subject.
                                                55

36.     The method of claim 23, wherein administration of the composition is once monthly,
once weekly, biweekly or once daily.
37.     A method for preserving an organ, tissue or cells for transplantation in a subject, the
method comprising exposing the organ, tissue or cells to a composition of a fusion
polypeptide according to claim 1; and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or salt thereof,
wherein the administered is reduced compared to administering alpha-I antitrypsin that is not
a fusion polypeptide, and wherein the composition is effective to preserve the organ, tissue or
cells for transplantation or storage.
38.     A nucleic acid construct comprising,
         a nucleic acid that encodes a mutant AAT having a mutation at the reactive center
        loop (RCL), wherein the serine protease inhibition activity is significantly reduced;
        and
        a nucleic acid encoding an immune fragment wherein the immune fragment is an
        immunoglobulin molecule.
39.     A method for treating a subject having been exposed to radiation, the method
comprising administering to the subject, a composition of a fusion polypeptide according to
claim 1; and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or salt thereof, wherein the administration
reduces the side effects of radiation in the subject; and wherein the composition administered
is reduced compared to administering alpha-I antitrypsin that is not a fusion polypeptide.
40.     The method of claim 39, wherein the the subject is exposed to radiation due to cancer
therapy.
41.     The method of claim 39, wherein the subject has prostate cancer and the treatment
reduces development of impotence or erectile dysfunction in the subject undergoing radiation
therapy.
                                                56

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                       479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
                                                SEQUENCE LI STI NG
               <110>   Regent s of t he Uni v er s i t y of Col or ado, a body c or por at e
                       Konk uk Uni v er s i t y
                       Omni Bi o Phar mac eut i c al , I nc .
                       Di nar el l o, Char l es A.
                       Ki m, SooHy un
                       Cr apo, J ames D.
               <120>   COMPOSI TI ONS, METHODS AND USES FOR ALPHA- 1 ANTI TRYPSI N FUSI ON
                       MOLECULES
 <removed-apn>
               <130>   479487. 2
               <150>   61/ 500, 795
               <151>   2011- 06- 24
               <160>   51
               <170>   Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
               <210>   1
               <211>   394
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Homo Sapi ens
               <400>   1
               Gl u As p Pr o Gl n Gl y As p Al a Al a Gl n Ly s Thr As p Thr Ser Hi s Hi s
               1                   5                        10                    15
               As p Gl n As p Hi s Pr o Thr Phe As n Ly s I l e Thr Pr o As n Leu Al a Gl u
                              20                     25                       30
               Phe Al a Phe Ser Leu Ty r Ar g Gl n Leu Al a Hi s Gl n Ser As n Ser Thr
                        35                    40                      45
               As n I l e Phe Phe Ser Pr o Val Ser I l e Al a Thr Al a Phe Al a Met Leu
                    50                     55                     60
               Ser Leu Gl y Thr Ly s Al a As p Thr Hi s As p Gl u I l e Leu Gl u Gl y Leu
               65                    70                      75                       80
               As n Phe As n Leu Thr Gl u I l e Pr o Gl u Al a Gl n I l e Hi s Gl u Gl y Phe
                                 85                       90                        95
               Gl n Gl u Leu Leu Ar g Thr Leu As n Gl n Pr o As p Ser Gl n Leu Gl n Leu
                             100                   105                     110
               Thr Thr Gl y As n Gl y Leu Phe Leu Ser Gl u Gl y Leu Ly s Leu Val As p
                       115                    120                   125
               Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As p Val Ly s Ly s Leu Ty r Hi s Ser Gl u Al a Phe Thr
                    130                   135                     140
               Val As n Phe Gl y As p Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Ly s Ly s Gl n I l e As n As p Ty r
               145                    150                     155                       160
                                                              Page 1
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                     479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               Val Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl n Gl y Ly s I l e Val As p Leu Val Ly s Gl u Leu
                                  165                      170                   175
               As p Ar g As p Thr Val Phe Al a Leu Val As n Ty r I l e Phe Phe Ly s Gl y
                              180                  185                     190
               Ly s Tr p Gl u Ar g Pr o Phe Gl u Val Ly s As p Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u As p Phe
                         195                     200                    205
 <removed-apn>
               Hi s Val As p Gl n Val Thr Thr Val Ly s Val Pr o Met Met Ly s Ar g Leu
                    210                   215                   220
               Gl y Met Phe As n I l e Gl n Hi s Cy s Ly s Ly s Leu Ser Ser Tr p Val Leu
               225                     230                      235                  240
               Leu Met Ly s Ty r Leu Gl y As n Al a Thr Al a I l e Phe Phe Leu Pr o As p
                                 245                    250                    255
               Gl u Gl y Ly s Leu Gl n Hi s Leu Gl u As n Gl u Leu Thr Hi s As p I l e I l e
                              260                    265                    270
               Thr Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As n Gl u As p Ar g Ar g Ser Al a Ser Leu Hi s Leu
                        275                    280                     285
               Pr o Ly s Leu Ser I l e Thr Gl y Thr Ty r As p Leu Ly s Ser Val Leu Gl y
                    290                    295                    300
               Gl n Leu Gl y I l e Thr Ly s Val Phe Ser As n Gl y Al a As p Leu Ser Gl y
               305                     310                   315                    320
               Val Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Pr o Leu Ly s Leu Ser Ly s Al a Val Hi s Ly s Al a
                                 325                    330                    335
               Val Leu Thr I l e As p Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl u Al a Al a Gl y Al a Met Phe
                           340                       345                     350
               Leu Gl u Al a I l e Pr o Met Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Ly s
                        355                     360                      365
               Pr o Phe Val Phe Leu Met I l e Gl u Gl n As n Thr Ly s Ser Pr o Leu Phe
                    370                 375                      380
               Met Gl y Ly s Val Val As n Pr o Thr Gl n Ly s
               385                   390
               <210>   2
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
                                                            Page 2
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                  479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <400>   2
               Phe Val Phe Leu Met
               1               5
               <210>   3
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
 <removed-apn>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   3
               Phe Val Phe Al a Met
               1                5
               <210>   4
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   4
               Phe Val Al a Leu Met
               1                5
               <210>   5
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   5
               Phe Val Phe Leu Al a
               1               5
               <210>   6
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   6
               Phe Leu Val Phe I l e
               1               5
               <210>   7
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
                                                         Page 3
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                  479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   7
               Phe Leu Met I l e I l e
               1                 5
               <210>   8
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
 <removed-apn>
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   8
               Phe Leu Phe Val Leu
               1               5
               <210>   9
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   9
               Phe Leu Phe Val Val
               1               5
               <210>   10
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   10
               Phe Leu Phe Leu I l e
               1               5
               <210>   11
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   11
               Phe Leu Phe Phe I l e
               1               5
               <210>   12
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
                                                         Page 4
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                   479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <220>
               <223>    s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>    12
               Phe Leu Met Phe I l e
               1               5
               <210>    13
               <211>    5
 <removed-apn>
               <212>    PRT
               <213>    Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>    s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>    13
               Phe Met Leu Leu I l e
               1               5
               <210>    14
               <211>    5
               <212>    PRT
               <213>    Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>    s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>    14
               Phe I l e I l e Met I l e
               1                   5
               <210>    15
               <211>    5
               <212>    PRT
               <213>    Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>    s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>    15
               Phe Leu Phe Cy s I l e
               1                5
               <210>    16
               <211>    5
               <212>    PRT
               <213>    Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>    s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>    16
               Phe Leu Phe Al a Val
               1                5
               <210>    17
               <211>    5
                                                          Page 5
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                    479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   17
               Phe Val Ty r Leu I l e
               1                5
 <removed-apn>
               <210>   18
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   18
               Phe Al a Phe Leu Met
               1                5
               <210>   19
               <211>   5
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   19
               Al a Val Phe Leu Met
               1                5
               <210>   20
               <211>   10
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   20
               Gl y I l e Thr Ly s Val Phe Ser As n Gl y Al a
               1                   5                     10
               <210>   21
               <211>   10
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   21
               As p Leu Ser Gl y Val Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Pr o
               1                 5                      10
                                                           Page 6
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                     479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <210>   22
               <211>   10
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   22
               Leu Ly s Leu Ser Ly s Al a Val Hi s Ly s Al a
               1                5                       10
 <removed-apn>
               <210>   23
               <211>   10
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   23
               Val Leu Thr I l e As p Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl u
               1                 5                       10
               <210>   24
               <211>   10
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   24
               Al a Al a Gl y Al a Met Phe Leu Gl u Al a I l e
               1                   5                     10
               <210>   25
               <211>   10
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   25
               Pr o Met Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe
               1                  5                       10
               <210>   26
               <211>   10
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   26
               As n Ly s Pr o Phe Val Phe Leu Met I l e Gl u
               1                  5                     10
                                                         Page 7
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                      479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <210>   27
               <211>   10
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   27
 <removed-apn>
               Gl n As n Thr Ly s Ser Pr o Leu Phe Met Gl y
               1                  5                    10
               <210>   28
               <211>   8
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   28
               Ly s Val Val As n Pr o Thr Gl n Ly s
               1                 5
               <210>   29
               <211>   22
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   29
               Leu Gl u Al a I l e Pr o Met Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Ly s
               1                   5                       10                     15
               Pr o Phe Val Phe Leu Met
                            20
               <210>   30
               <211>   20
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   Sy nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   30
               Leu Gl u Al a I l e Pr o Met Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Ly s
               1                   5                       10                     15
               Pr o Phe Val Phe
                            20
               <210>   31
               <211>   80
                                                             Page 8
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                      479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   31
               Gl y Al a As p Leu Ser Gl y Val Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Pr o Leu Ly s Leu Ser
               1                  5                     10                      15
 <removed-apn>
               Ly s Al a Val Hi s Ly s Al a Val Leu Thr I l e As p Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl u
                             20                     25                       30
               Al a Al a Gl y Al a Met Phe Leu Gl u Al a I l e Pr o Met Ser I l e Pr o Pr o
                         35                    40                       45
               Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Ly s Pr o Phe Val Phe Leu Met I l e Gl u Gl n As n
                    50                     55                   60
               Thr Ly s Ser Pr o Leu Phe Met Gl y Ly s Val Val As n Pr o Thr Gl n Ly s
               65                    70                    75                     80
               <210>   32
               <211>   652
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   FC- AAT f us i on pol y pept i de wi t h l i nk er and l eader s equenc e
               <220>
               <221>   l i nk er bet ween i mmune mol ec ul e and AAT
               <222>   ( 419) . . ( 420)
               <400>   32
               Met Pr o Ser Ser Val Ser Tr p Gl y I l e Leu Leu Leu Al a Gl y Leu Cy s
               1                5                       10                    15
               Cy s Leu Val Pr o Val Ser Leu Al a Gl u As p Pr o Gl n Gl y As p Al a Al a
                            20                    25                       30
               Gl n Ly s Thr As p Thr Ser Hi s Hi s As p Gl n As p Hi s Pr o Thr Phe As n
                         35                    40                       45
               Ly s I l e Thr Pr o As n Leu Al a Gl u Phe Al a Phe Ser Leu Ty r Ar g Gl n
                    50                      55                     60
               Leu Al a Hi s Gl n Ser As n Ser Thr As n I l e Phe Phe Ser Pr o Val Ser
               65                     70                      75                   80
               I l e Al a Thr Al a Phe Al a Met Leu Ser Leu Gl y Thr Ly s Al a As p Thr
                                   85                   90                     95
               Hi s As p Gl u I l e Leu Gl u Gl y Leu As n Phe As n Leu Thr Gl u I l e Pr o
                                                            Page 9
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                      479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
                             100                      105                      110
               Gl u Al a Gl n I l e Hi s Gl u Gl y Phe Gl n Gl u Leu Leu Ar g Thr Leu As n
                         115                       120                   125
               Gl n Pr o As p Ser Gl n Leu Gl n Leu Thr Thr Gl y As n Gl y Leu Phe Leu
                    130                    135                   140
               Ser Gl u Gl y Leu Ly s Leu Val As p Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As p Val Ly s Ly s
 <removed-apn>
               145                    150                   155                    160
               Leu Ty r Hi s Ser Gl u Al a Phe Thr Val As n Phe Gl y As p Thr Gl u Gl u
                                 165                   170                    175
               Al a Ly s Ly s Gl n I l e As n As p Ty r Val Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl n Gl y Ly s
                              180                       185                    190
               I l e Val As p Leu Val Ly s Gl u Leu As p Ar g As p Thr Val Phe Al a Leu
                         195                    200                    205
               Val As n Ty r I l e Phe Phe Ly s Gl y Ly s Tr p Gl u Ar g Pr o Phe Gl u Val
                   210                     215                      220
               Ly s As p Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u As p Phe Hi s Val As p Gl n Al a Thr Thr Val
               225                     230                    235                    240
               Ly s Val Pr o Met Met Ly s Ar g Leu Gl y Met Phe As n I l e Gl n Hi s Cy s
                                 245                    250                     255
               Ly s Ly s Leu Ser Ser Tr p Val Leu Leu Met Ly s Ty r Leu Gl y As n Al a
                             260                  265                   270
               Thr Al a I l e Phe Phe Leu Pr o As p Gl u Gl y Ly s Leu Gl n Hi s Leu Gl u
                        275                    280                     285
               As n Gl u Leu Thr Hi s As p I l e I l e Thr Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As n Gl u As p
                    290                    295                      300
               Ar g Ar g Ser Al a Ser Leu Hi s Leu Pr o Ly s Leu Ser I l e Thr Gl y Thr
               305                    310                    315                    320
               Ty r As p Leu Ly s Ser Val Leu Gl y Gl n Leu Gl y I l e Thr Ly s Val Phe
                                  325                   330                     335
               Ser As n Gl y Al a As p Leu Ser Gl y Val Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Pr o Leu Ly s
                             340                    345                    350
               Leu Ser Ly s Al a Val Hi s Ly s Al a Val Leu Thr I l e As p Gl u Ly s Gl y
                       355                     360                    365
               Thr Gl u Al a Al a Gl y Al a Met Phe Leu Gl u Al a I l e Pr o Met Ser I l e
                                                         Page 10
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                     479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
                   370                      375                   380
               Pr o Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Ly s Pr o Phe Val Phe Leu Met I l e Gl u
               385                     390                    395                   400
               Gl n As n Thr Ly s Ser Pr o Leu Phe Met Gl y Ly s Val Val As n Pr o Thr
                                  405                  410                    415
               Gl n Ly s Thr Ar g Gl u Pr o Ly s Ser Cy s As p Ly s Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o
 <removed-apn>
                             420                     425                     430
               Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe
                         435                     440                    445
               Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val
                    450                      455                   460
               Thr Cy s Val Val Val As p Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe
               465                  470                    475                     480
               As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o
                                  485                    490                     495
               Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr
                              500                    505                   510
               Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val
                       515                     520                      525
               Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Al a Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a
                   530                     535                       540
               Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g
               545                      550                     555                   560
               As p Gl u Leu Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y
                                 565                    570                  575
               Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o
                             580                     585                     590
               Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser
                         595                    600                    605
               Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n
                   610                   615                   620
               Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s
               625                   630                   635                     640
               Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ly s
                                                       Page 11
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                     479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
                                  645                    650
               <210>   33
               <211>   394
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Homo Sapi ens
               <400>   33
               Gl u As p Pr o Gl n Gl y As p Al a Al a Gl n Ly s Thr As p Thr Ser Hi s Hi s
               1                   5                        10                    15
 <removed-apn>
               As p Gl n As p Hi s Pr o Thr Phe As n Ly s I l e Thr Pr o As n Leu Al a Gl u
                              20                     25                       30
               Phe Al a Phe Ser Leu Ty r Ar g Gl n Leu Al a Hi s Gl n Ser As n Ser Thr
                        35                    40                      45
               As n I l e Phe Phe Ser Pr o Val Ser I l e Al a Thr Al a Phe Al a Met Leu
                    50                     55                     60
               Ser Leu Gl y Thr Ly s Al a As p Thr Hi s As p Gl u I l e Leu Gl u Gl y Leu
               65                    70                      75                       80
               As n Phe As n Leu Thr Gl u I l e Pr o Gl u Al a Gl n I l e Hi s Gl u Gl y Phe
                                 85                       90                        95
               Gl n Gl u Leu Leu Ar g Thr Leu As n Gl n Pr o As p Ser Gl n Leu Gl n Leu
                             100                   105                     110
               Thr Thr Gl y As n Gl y Leu Phe Leu Ser Gl u Gl y Leu Ly s Leu Val As p
                       115                    120                   125
               Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As p Val Ly s Ly s Leu Ty r Hi s Ser Gl u Al a Phe Thr
                    130                   135                     140
               Val As n Phe Gl y As p Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Ly s Ly s Gl n I l e As n As p Ty r
               145                    150                     155                       160
               Val Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl n Gl y Ly s I l e Val As p Leu Val Ly s Gl u Leu
                                  165                      170                   175
               As p Ar g As p Thr Val Phe Al a Leu Val As n Ty r I l e Phe Phe Ly s Gl y
                              180                  185                     190
               Ly s Tr p Gl u Ar g Pr o Phe Gl u Val Ly s As p Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u As p Phe
                         195                     200                    205
               Hi s Val As p Gl n Al a Thr Thr Val Ly s Val Pr o Met Met Ly s Ar g Leu
                    210                    215                   220
               Gl y Met Phe As n I l e Gl n Hi s Cy s Ly s Ly s Leu Ser Ser Tr p Val Leu
               225                     230                      235                  240
                                                            Page 12
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                     479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               Leu Met Ly s Ty r Leu Gl y As n Al a Thr Al a I l e Phe Phe Leu Pr o As p
                                 245                    250                    255
               Gl u Gl y Ly s Leu Gl n Hi s Leu Gl u As n Gl u Leu Thr Hi s As p I l e I l e
                              260                    265                    270
               Thr Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As n Gl u As p Ar g Ar g Ser Al a Ser Leu Hi s Leu
                        275                    280                     285
 <removed-apn>
               Pr o Ly s Leu Ser I l e Thr Gl y Thr Ty r As p Leu Ly s Ser Val Leu Gl y
                    290                    295                    300
               Gl n Leu Gl y I l e Thr Ly s Val Phe Ser As n Gl y Al a As p Leu Ser Gl y
               305                     310                   315                    320
               Val Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Pr o Leu Ly s Leu Ser Ly s Al a Val Hi s Ly s Al a
                                 325                    330                    335
               Val Leu Thr I l e As p Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl u Al a Al a Gl y Al a Met Phe
                           340                       345                     350
               Leu Gl u Al a I l e Pr o Met Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Ly s
                        355                     360                      365
               Pr o Phe Val Phe Leu Met I l e Gl u Gl n As n Thr Ly s Ser Pr o Leu Phe
                    370                 375                      380
               Met Gl y Ly s Val Val As n Pr o Thr Gl n Ly s
               385                   390
               <210>   34
               <211>   36
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   34
               Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Ly s Pr o Phe Val Phe Leu Met
               1                   5                      10                    15
               I l e Gl u Gl n As n Thr Ly s Ser Pr o Leu Phe Met Gl y Ly s Val Val As n
                               20                     25                    30
               Pr o Thr Gl n Ly s
                        35
               <210>   35
               <211>   62
               <212>   DNA
               <213>   Homo s api ens
                                                           Page 13
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                              479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <400> 35
               t t t agaggc c at ac c c at gt c t at c c c c c c c gaggt c aag t t c aac aaac c c c t t t gt c t   60
               tt                                                                                                  62
               <210>     36
               <211>     62
               <212>     DNA
               <213>     Ar t i f i c i al
 <removed-apn>
               <220>
               <223>     mut ant
               <400> 36
               t t t agaggc c at at gc at gt c t at c c c c c c c gaggt c aag t t c aac aaac c c c t t t gt c t    60
               tt                                                                                                  62
               <210>     37
               <211>     9
               <212>     PRT
               <213>     Homo s api ens
               <400>     37
               Al a I l e Pr o Ar g Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u
               1                    5
               <210>     38
               <211>     9
               <212>     PRT
               <213>     Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>     s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>     38
               Al a I l e Pr o Val Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u
               1                   5
               <210>     39
               <211>     9
               <212>     PRT
               <213>     Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>     s y nt eht i c pept i de
               <400>     39
               Al a I l e Pr o Val Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u
               1                   5
               <210>     40
               <211>     9
               <212>     PRT
               <213>     Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>     s y nt het i c pept i de
                                                                      Page 14
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                       479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <400>    40
               Al a I l e Pr o Leu Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u
               1                   5
               <210>    41
               <211>    9
               <212>    PRT
               <213>    Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
 <removed-apn>
               <223>    s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>    41
               Al a I l e Cy s Met Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u
               1                   5
               <210>    42
               <211>    9
               <212>    PRT
               <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
               <220>
               <223>    s y nt eht i c pept i de
               <400>    42
               Al a I l e Pr o Al a Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u
               1                    5
               <210>    43
               <211>    9
               <212>    PRT
               <213>    Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>    s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>    43
               Al a I l e Pr o Met Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Ly s
               1                   5
               <210>    44
               <211>    9
               <212>    PRT
               <213>    Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>    s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>    44
               Al a Al a Gl y Ar g Ser Leu As n Pr o Gl u
               1                   5
               <210>    45
               <211>    9
               <212>    PRT
               <213>    Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
                                                               Page 15
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                      479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   45
               I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Ser Leu As n Pr o As n
               1                    5
               <210>   46
               <211>   9
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
 <removed-apn>
               <220>
               <223>   s y nt het i c pept i de
               <400>   46
               I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Leu As n Pr o As n
               1                    5
               <210>   47
               <211>   650
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   Fc - AAT wi t h l eader s equenc e wi t hout l i nk er
               <400>   47
               Met Pr o Ser Ser Val Ser Tr p Gl y I l e Leu Leu Leu Al a Gl y Leu Cy s
               1                5                       10                    15
               Cy s Leu Val Pr o Val Ser Leu Al a Gl u As p Pr o Gl n Gl y As p Al a Al a
                            20                    25                       30
               Gl n Ly s Thr As p Thr Ser Hi s Hi s As p Gl n As p Hi s Pr o Thr Phe As n
                         35                    40                       45
               Ly s I l e Thr Pr o As n Leu Al a Gl u Phe Al a Phe Ser Leu Ty r Ar g Gl n
                    50                      55                     60
               Leu Al a Hi s Gl n Ser As n Ser Thr As n I l e Phe Phe Ser Pr o Val Ser
               65                     70                      75                   80
               I l e Al a Thr Al a Phe Al a Met Leu Ser Leu Gl y Thr Ly s Al a As p Thr
                                   85                   90                     95
               Hi s As p Gl u I l e Leu Gl u Gl y Leu As n Phe As n Leu Thr Gl u I l e Pr o
                              100                     105                   110
               Gl u Al a Gl n I l e Hi s Gl u Gl y Phe Gl n Gl u Leu Leu Ar g Thr Leu As n
                         115                       120                   125
               Gl n Pr o As p Ser Gl n Leu Gl n Leu Thr Thr Gl y As n Gl y Leu Phe Leu
                    130                    135                   140
                                                             Page 16
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                   479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               Ser Gl u Gl y Leu Ly s Leu Val As p Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As p Val Ly s Ly s
               145                    150                   155                    160
               Leu Ty r Hi s Ser Gl u Al a Phe Thr Val As n Phe Gl y As p Thr Gl u Gl u
                                 165                   170                    175
               Al a Ly s Ly s Gl n I l e As n As p Ty r Val Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl n Gl y Ly s
                              180                       185                    190
 <removed-apn>
               I l e Val As p Leu Val Ly s Gl u Leu As p Ar g As p Thr Val Phe Al a Leu
                         195                    200                    205
               Val As n Ty r I l e Phe Phe Ly s Gl y Ly s Tr p Gl u Ar g Pr o Phe Gl u Val
                   210                     215                      220
               Ly s As p Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u As p Phe Hi s Val As p Gl n Al a Thr Thr Val
               225                     230                    235                    240
               Ly s Val Pr o Met Met Ly s Ar g Leu Gl y Met Phe As n I l e Gl n Hi s Cy s
                                 245                    250                     255
               Ly s Ly s Leu Ser Ser Tr p Val Leu Leu Met Ly s Ty r Leu Gl y As n Al a
                             260                  265                   270
               Thr Al a I l e Phe Phe Leu Pr o As p Gl u Gl y Ly s Leu Gl n Hi s Leu Gl u
                        275                    280                     285
               As n Gl u Leu Thr Hi s As p I l e I l e Thr Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As n Gl u As p
                    290                    295                      300
               Ar g Ar g Ser Al a Ser Leu Hi s Leu Pr o Ly s Leu Ser I l e Thr Gl y Thr
               305                    310                    315                    320
               Ty r As p Leu Ly s Ser Val Leu Gl y Gl n Leu Gl y I l e Thr Ly s Val Phe
                                  325                   330                     335
               Ser As n Gl y Al a As p Leu Ser Gl y Val Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Pr o Leu Ly s
                             340                    345                    350
               Leu Ser Ly s Al a Val Hi s Ly s Al a Val Leu Thr I l e As p Gl u Ly s Gl y
                       355                     360                    365
               Thr Gl u Al a Al a Gl y Al a Met Phe Leu Gl u Al a I l e Pr o Met Ser I l e
                   370                      375                   380
               Pr o Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Ly s Pr o Phe Val Phe Leu Met I l e Gl u
               385                     390                    395                   400
               Gl n As n Thr Ly s Ser Pr o Leu Phe Met Gl y Ly s Val Val As n Pr o Thr
                                  405                  410                    415
                                                            Page 17
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                      479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               Gl n Ly s Gl u Pr o Ly s Ser Cy s As p Ly s Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s
                              420                     425                    430
               Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o
                         435                    440                   445
               Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s
                    450                    455                    460
 <removed-apn>
               Val Val Val As p Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p
               465                  470                     475                    480
               Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u
                                  485                    490                     495
               Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu
                              500                    505                 510
               Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n
                         515                     520                      525
               Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Al a Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y
                    530                     535                       540
               Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g As p Gl u
               545                      550                   555                     560
               Leu Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r
                                 565                  570                    575
               Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n
                             580                      585                     590
               As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe
                         595                    600                   605
               Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n
                   610                   615                    620
               Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr
               625                  630                    635                     640
               Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ly s
                                 645                   650
               <210>   48
               <211>   628
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   Fc - AAT f us i on pol y pept i de wi t h l i nk er wi t hout l eader s equenc e
                                                             Page 18
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                     479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <220>
               <221>   l i nk er bet ween i mmune mol ec ul e and AAT
               <222>   ( 395) . . ( 396)
               <400>   48
               Gl u As p Pr o Gl n Gl y As p Al a Al a Gl n Ly s Thr As p Thr Ser Hi s Hi s
               1                   5                        10                    15
               As p Gl n As p Hi s Pr o Thr Phe As n Ly s I l e Thr Pr o As n Leu Al a Gl u
 <removed-apn>
                              20                     25                       30
               Phe Al a Phe Ser Leu Ty r Ar g Gl n Leu Al a Hi s Gl n Ser As n Ser Thr
                        35                    40                      45
               As n I l e Phe Phe Ser Pr o Val Ser I l e Al a Thr Al a Phe Al a Met Leu
                    50                     55                     60
               Ser Leu Gl y Thr Ly s Al a As p Thr Hi s As p Gl u I l e Leu Gl u Gl y Leu
               65                    70                      75                       80
               As n Phe As n Leu Thr Gl u I l e Pr o Gl u Al a Gl n I l e Hi s Gl u Gl y Phe
                                 85                       90                        95
               Gl n Gl u Leu Leu Ar g Thr Leu As n Gl n Pr o As p Ser Gl n Leu Gl n Leu
                             100                   105                     110
               Thr Thr Gl y As n Gl y Leu Phe Leu Ser Gl u Gl y Leu Ly s Leu Val As p
                       115                    120                   125
               Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As p Val Ly s Ly s Leu Ty r Hi s Ser Gl u Al a Phe Thr
                    130                   135                     140
               Val As n Phe Gl y As p Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Ly s Ly s Gl n I l e As n As p Ty r
               145                    150                     155                       160
               Val Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl n Gl y Ly s I l e Val As p Leu Val Ly s Gl u Leu
                                  165                      170                   175
               As p Ar g As p Thr Val Phe Al a Leu Val As n Ty r I l e Phe Phe Ly s Gl y
                              180                  185                     190
               Ly s Tr p Gl u Ar g Pr o Phe Gl u Val Ly s As p Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u As p Phe
                         195                     200                    205
               Hi s Val As p Gl n Al a Thr Thr Val Ly s Val Pr o Met Met Ly s Ar g Leu
                    210                    215                   220
               Gl y Met Phe As n I l e Gl n Hi s Cy s Ly s Ly s Leu Ser Ser Tr p Val Leu
               225                     230                      235                  240
               Leu Met Ly s Ty r Leu Gl y As n Al a Thr Al a I l e Phe Phe Leu Pr o As p
                                                         Page 19
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                      479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
                                   245                    250                        255
               Gl u Gl y Ly s Leu Gl n Hi s Leu Gl u As n Gl u Leu Thr Hi s As p I l e I l e
                              260                    265                    270
               Thr Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As n Gl u As p Ar g Ar g Ser Al a Ser Leu Hi s Leu
                        275                    280                     285
               Pr o Ly s Leu Ser I l e Thr Gl y Thr Ty r As p Leu Ly s Ser Val Leu Gl y
 <removed-apn>
                    290                    295                    300
               Gl n Leu Gl y I l e Thr Ly s Val Phe Ser As n Gl y Al a As p Leu Ser Gl y
               305                     310                   315                    320
               Val Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Pr o Leu Ly s Leu Ser Ly s Al a Val Hi s Ly s Al a
                                 325                    330                    335
               Val Leu Thr I l e As p Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl u Al a Al a Gl y Al a Met Phe
                           340                       345                     350
               Leu Gl u Al a I l e Pr o Met Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Ly s
                        355                     360                      365
               Pr o Phe Val Phe Leu Met I l e Gl u Gl n As n Thr Ly s Ser Pr o Leu Phe
                    370                 375                      380
               Met Gl y Ly s Val Val As n Pr o Thr Gl n Ly s Thr Ar g Gl u Pr o Ly s Ser
               385                   390                     395                     400
               Cy s As p Ly s Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu
                                  405                     410                      415
               Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu
                              420                 425                      430
               Met I l e Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val As p Val Ser
                         435                    440                  445
               Hi s Gl u As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u
                    450                     455                     460
               Val Hi s As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr
               465                     470                     475                     480
               Ty r Ar g Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n
                                 485                 490                     495
               Gl y Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Al a Pr o
                              500                     505                    510
               I l e Gl u Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n
                                                             Page 20
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                        479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
                        515                       520                        525
               Val Ty r Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g As p Gl u Leu Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val
                   530                    535                    540
               Ser Leu Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val
               545                  550                    555                      560
               Gl u Tr p Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o
 <removed-apn>
                                  565                      570                     575
               Pr o Val Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr
                            580                    585                  590
               Val As p Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val
                        595                     600                    605
               Met Hi s Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu
                   610                     615                     620
               Ser Pr o Gl y Ly s
               625
               <210>   49
               <211>   626
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>   Fc - AAT f us i on pol y pept i de wi t hout l i nk er or l eader s equenc e
               <400>   49
               Gl u As p Pr o Gl n Gl y As p Al a Al a Gl n Ly s Thr As p Thr Ser Hi s Hi s
               1                   5                        10                    15
               As p Gl n As p Hi s Pr o Thr Phe As n Ly s I l e Thr Pr o As n Leu Al a Gl u
                              20                     25                       30
               Phe Al a Phe Ser Leu Ty r Ar g Gl n Leu Al a Hi s Gl n Ser As n Ser Thr
                        35                    40                      45
               As n I l e Phe Phe Ser Pr o Val Ser I l e Al a Thr Al a Phe Al a Met Leu
                    50                     55                     60
               Ser Leu Gl y Thr Ly s Al a As p Thr Hi s As p Gl u I l e Leu Gl u Gl y Leu
               65                    70                      75                       80
               As n Phe As n Leu Thr Gl u I l e Pr o Gl u Al a Gl n I l e Hi s Gl u Gl y Phe
                                 85                       90                        95
               Gl n Gl u Leu Leu Ar g Thr Leu As n Gl n Pr o As p Ser Gl n Leu Gl n Leu
                             100                   105                     110
                                                              Page 21
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                     479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               Thr Thr Gl y As n Gl y Leu Phe Leu Ser Gl u Gl y Leu Ly s Leu Val As p
                       115                    120                   125
               Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As p Val Ly s Ly s Leu Ty r Hi s Ser Gl u Al a Phe Thr
                    130                   135                     140
               Val As n Phe Gl y As p Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Ly s Ly s Gl n I l e As n As p Ty r
               145                    150                     155                       160
 <removed-apn>
               Val Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl n Gl y Ly s I l e Val As p Leu Val Ly s Gl u Leu
                                  165                      170                   175
               As p Ar g As p Thr Val Phe Al a Leu Val As n Ty r I l e Phe Phe Ly s Gl y
                              180                  185                     190
               Ly s Tr p Gl u Ar g Pr o Phe Gl u Val Ly s As p Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u As p Phe
                         195                     200                    205
               Hi s Val As p Gl n Al a Thr Thr Val Ly s Val Pr o Met Met Ly s Ar g Leu
                    210                    215                   220
               Gl y Met Phe As n I l e Gl n Hi s Cy s Ly s Ly s Leu Ser Ser Tr p Val Leu
               225                     230                      235                  240
               Leu Met Ly s Ty r Leu Gl y As n Al a Thr Al a I l e Phe Phe Leu Pr o As p
                                 245                    250                    255
               Gl u Gl y Ly s Leu Gl n Hi s Leu Gl u As n Gl u Leu Thr Hi s As p I l e I l e
                              260                    265                    270
               Thr Ly s Phe Leu Gl u As n Gl u As p Ar g Ar g Ser Al a Ser Leu Hi s Leu
                        275                    280                     285
               Pr o Ly s Leu Ser I l e Thr Gl y Thr Ty r As p Leu Ly s Ser Val Leu Gl y
                    290                    295                    300
               Gl n Leu Gl y I l e Thr Ly s Val Phe Ser As n Gl y Al a As p Leu Ser Gl y
               305                     310                   315                    320
               Val Thr Gl u Gl u Al a Pr o Leu Ly s Leu Ser Ly s Al a Val Hi s Ly s Al a
                                 325                    330                    335
               Val Leu Thr I l e As p Gl u Ly s Gl y Thr Gl u Al a Al a Gl y Al a Met Phe
                           340                       345                     350
               Leu Gl u Al a I l e Pr o Met Ser I l e Pr o Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Ly s
                        355                     360                      365
               Pr o Phe Val Phe Leu Met I l e Gl u Gl n As n Thr Ly s Ser Pr o Leu Phe
                    370                 375                      380
                                                           Page 22
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                     479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               Met Gl y Ly s Val Val As n Pr o Thr Gl n Ly s Gl u Pr o Ly s Ser Cy s As p
               385                   390                     395                     400
               Ly s Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y
                                 405                      410                    415
               Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e
                            420                   425                     430
 <removed-apn>
               Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val As p Val Ser Hi s Gl u
                        435                   440                   445
               As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s
                    450                    455                     460
               As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g
               465                     470                      475                    480
               Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s
                               485                  490                     495
               Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Al a Pr o I l e Gl u
                              500                    505                     510
               Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r
                        515                      520                      525
               Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g As p Gl u Leu Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu
                   530                    535                    540
               Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p
               545                   550                    555                      560
               Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val
                                  565                      570                    575
               Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p
                            580                   585                   590
               Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s
                        595                      600                   605
               Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o
                    610                     615                    620
               Gl y Ly s
               625
               <210>       50
               <211>       1887
               <212>       DNA
                                                            Page 23
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                               479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               <213>     Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>     c DNA f or Fc - AAT wi t h l i nk er wi t hout l eader s equenc e
               <400> 50
               gaggat c c c c agggagat gc t gc c c agaag ac agat ac at c c c ac c ac ga t c aggat c ac                  60
               c c aac c t t c a ac aagat c ac c c c c aac c t g gc t gagt t c g c c t t c agc c t at ac c gc c ag     120
               c t ggc ac ac c agt c c aac ag c ac c aat at c t t c t t c t c c c c agt gagc at c gc t ac agc c        180
 <removed-apn>
               t t t gc aat gc t c t c c c t ggg gac c aaggc t gac ac t c ac g at gaaat c c t ggagggc c t g            240
               aat t t c aac c t c ac ggagat t c c ggaggc t c agat c c at g aaggc t t c c a ggaac t c c t c            300
               c gt ac c c t c a ac c agc c aga c agc c agc t c c agc t gac c a c c ggc aat gg c c t gt t c c t c      360
               agc gagggc c t gaagc t agt ggat aagt t t t t ggaggat g t t aaaaagt t gt ac c ac t c a                   420
               gaagc c t t c a c t gt c aac t t c ggggac ac c gaagaggc c a agaaac agat c aac gat t ac                  480
               gt ggagaagg gt ac t c aagg gaaaat t gt g gat t t ggt c a aggagc t t ga c agagac ac a                    540
               gt t t t t gc t c t ggt gaat t a c at c t t c t t t aaaggc aaat gggagagac c c t t t gaagt c             600
               aaggac ac c g aggaagagga c t t c c ac gt g gac c aggc ga c c ac c gt gaa ggt gc c t at g                660
               at gaagc gt t t aggc at gt t t aac at c c ag c ac t gt aaga agc t gt c c ag c t gggt gc t g             720
               c t gat gaaat ac c t gggc aa t gc c ac c gc c at c t t c t t c c t gc c t gat ga ggggaaac t a           780
               c agc ac c t gg aaaat gaac t c ac c c ac gat at c at c ac c a agt t c c t gga aaat gaagac               840
               agaaggt c t g c c agc t t ac a t t t ac c c aaa c t gt c c at t a c t ggaac c t a t gat c t gaag        900
               agc gt c c t gg gt c aac t ggg c at c ac t aag gt c t t c agc a at ggggc t ga c c t c t c c ggg         960
               gt c ac agagg aggc ac c c c t gaagc t c t c c aaggc c gt gc at aaggc t gt gc t gac c at c              1020
               gac gagaaag ggac t gaagc t gc t ggggc c at gt t t t t ag aggc c at ac c c at gt c t at c               1080
               c c c c c c gagg t c aagt t c aa c aaac c c t t t gt c t t c t t aa t gat t gaac a aaat ac c aag       1140
               t c t c c c c t c t t c at gggaaa agt ggt gaat c c c ac c c aaa aaac gc gt ga gc c c aaat c t          1200
               t gt gac aaaa c t c ac ac at g c c c ac c gt gc c c agc ac c t g aac t c c t ggg gggac c gt c a        1260
               gt c t t c c t c t t c c c c c c aaa ac c c aaggac ac c c t c at ga t c t c c c ggac c c c t gaggt c   1320
               ac at gc gt gg t ggt ggac gt gagc c ac gaa gac c c t gagg t c aagt t c aa c t ggt ac gt g              1380
               gac ggc gt gg aggt gc at aa t gc c aagac a aagc c gc ggg aggagc agt a c aac agc ac g                   1440
               t ac c gt gt gg t c agc gt c c t c ac c gt c c t g c ac c aggac t ggc t gaat gg c aaggagt ac           1500
               aagt gc aagg t c t c c aac aa agc c c t c c c a gc c c c c at c g agaaaac c at c t c c aaagc c         1560
               aaagggc agc c c c gagaac c ac aggt gt ac ac c c t gc c c c c at c c c ggga t gagc t gac c              1620
               aagaac c agg t c agc c t gac c t gc c t ggt c aaaggc t t c t at c c c agc ga c at c gc c gt g          1680
               gagt gggaga gc aat gggc a gc c ggagaac aac t ac aaga c c ac gc c t c c c gt gc t ggac                  1740
               t c c gac ggc t c c t t c t t c c t c t ac agc aag c t c ac c gt gg ac aagagc ag gt ggc agc ag         1800
               gggaac gt c t t c t c at gc t c c gt gat gc at gaggc t c t gc ac aac c ac t a c ac gc agaag            1860
                                                                       Page 24
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                                479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               agc c t c t c c c t gt c t c c ggg t aaat ga                                                            1887
               <210>     51
               <211>     1959
               <212>     DNA
               <213>     Ar t i f i c i al
               <220>
               <223>     c DNA f or Fc - AAT wi t h l i nk er and l eader s equenc e
               <400> 51
 <removed-apn>
               at gc c gt c t t c t gt c t c gt g gggc at c c t c c t gc t ggc ag gc c t gt gc t g c c t ggt c c c t     60
               gt c t c c c t gg c t gaggat c c c c agggagat gc t gc c c aga agac agat ac at c c c ac c ac              120
               gat c aggat c ac c c aac c t t c aac aagat c ac c c c c aac c t ggc t gagt t c gc c t t c agc            180
               c t at ac c gc c agc t ggc ac a c c agt c c aac agc ac c aat a t c t t c t t c t c c c c agt gagc        240
               at c gc t ac ag c c t t t gc aat gc t c t c c c t g gggac c aagg c t gac ac t c a c gat gaaat c          300
               c t ggagggc c t gaat t t c aa c c t c ac ggag at t c c ggagg c t c agat c c a t gaaggc t t c             360
               c aggaac t c c t c c gt ac c c t c aac c agc c a gac agc c agc t c c agc t gac c ac c ggc aat            420
               ggc c t gt t c c t c agc gaggg c c t gaagc t a gt ggat aagt t t t t ggagga t gt t aaaaag                 480
               t t gt ac c ac t c agaagc c t t c ac t gt c aac t t c ggggac a c c gaagaggc c aagaaac ag                 540
               at c aac gat t ac gt ggagaa gggt ac t c aa gggaaaat t g t ggat t t ggt c aaggagc t t                     600
               gac agagac a c agt t t t t gc t c t ggt gaat t ac at c t t c t t t aaaggc aa at gggagaga                 660
               c c c t t t gaag t c aaggac ac c gaggaagag gac t t c c ac g t ggac c aggc gac c ac c gt g                720
               aaggt gc c t a t gat gaagc g t t t aggc at g t t t aac at c c agc ac t gt aa gaagc t gt c c              780
               agc t gggt gc t gc t gat gaa at ac c t gggc aat gc c ac c g c c at c t t c t t c c t gc c t gat          840
               gaggggaaac t ac agc ac c t ggaaaat gaa c t c ac c c ac g at at c at c ac c aagt t c c t g                900
               gaaaat gaag ac agaaggt c t gc c agc t t a c at t t ac c c a aac t gt c c at t ac t ggaac c               960
               t at gat c t ga agagc gt c c t gggt c aac t g ggc at c ac t a aggt c t t c ag c aat ggggc t             1020
               gac c t c t c c g gggt c ac aga ggaggc ac c c c t gaagc t c t c c aaggc c gt gc at aaggc t              1080
               gt gc t gac c a t c gac gagaa agggac t gaa gc t gc t gggg c c at gt t t t t agaggc c at a               1140
               c c c at gt c t a t c c c c c c c ga ggt c aagt t c aac aaac c c t t t gt c t t c t t aat gat t gaa     1200
               c aaaat ac c a agt c t c c c c t c t t c at ggga aaagt ggt ga at c c c ac c c a aaaaac gc gt            1260
               gagc c c aaat c t t gt gac aa aac t c ac ac a t gc c c ac c gt gc c c agc ac c t gaac t c c t g         1320
               gggggac c gt c agt c t t c c t c t t c c c c c c a aaac c c aagg ac ac c c t c at gat c t c c c gg      1380
               ac c c c t gagg t c ac at gc gt ggt ggt ggac gt gagc c ac g aagac c c t ga ggt c aagt t c               1440
               aac t ggt ac g t ggac ggc gt ggaggt gc at aat gc c aaga c aaagc c gc g ggaggagc ag                      1500
               t ac aac agc a c gt ac c gt gt ggt c agc gt c c t c ac c gt c c t gc ac c agga c t ggc t gaat           1560
               ggc aaggagt ac aagt gc aa ggt c t c c aac aaagc c c t c c c agc c c c c at c gagaaaac c                 1620
               at c t c c aaag c c aaagggc a gc c c c gagaa c c ac aggt gt ac ac c c t gc c c c c at c c c gg          1680
                                                                        Page 25
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

                                                           479487- 2_ST25. t x t
 <removed-date>
               gat gagc t ga c c aagaac c a ggt c agc c t g ac c t gc c t gg t c aaaggc t t c t at c c c agc       1740
               gac at c gc c g t ggagt ggga gagc aat ggg c agc c ggaga ac aac t ac aa gac c ac gc c t              1800
               c c c gt gc t gg ac t c c gac gg c t c c t t c t t c c t c t ac agc a agc t c ac c gt ggac aagagc   1860
               aggt ggc agc aggggaac gt c t t c t c at gc t c c gt gat gc at gaggc t c t gc ac aac c ac            1920
               t ac ac gc aga agagc c t c t c c c t gt c t c c g ggt aaat ga                                       1959
 <removed-apn>
                                                                     Page 26
This data, for application number 2012272636, is current as of 2018-01-08 21:00 AEST

