                                         ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to techniques to extend the shelf life and facilitate the bulk
transport of perishable organic liquids whereby the liquids are mixed with carbon dioxide gas
and held under carbon dioxide pressure, in order to extend the time before the liquid spoils or
sustains material undesirable biological changes.

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are four pages of description only

                                     AUSTRALIA
                                  Patents Act 1990
                         COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                              INNOVATION PATENT
                Extended Shelf Life Milk Technology
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best
method of performing it known to me:

                    Extended Shelf Life Milk Technology
The present invention relates to techniques to extend the shelf life and facilitate the bulk
transport of perishable organic liquids whereby the liquids are mixed with carbon dioxide gas
and held under carbon dioxide pressure, in order to extend the time before the liquid spoils
or sustains material undesirable biological changes.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Assuring the safety of fluid milk, related dairy products, and juices while maintaining quality
and increasing the shelf life of products is a significant challenge for the food industry. Many
perishable organic liquids, including juices, but especially raw milk, serve as suitable growth
mediums for micro-organisms. Benefits in distribution and organic liquid quality could be
derived from reducing microbial growth.
The bulk transport of perishable organic liquids generally requires at least one of the
following:
 pasteurization or similar treatments to reduce, eliminate or control pathogens; rapid
shipment; and in some cases, refrigeration. Each of these options imposes additional cost
and or limitations. For instance, shipment by truck may be the quickest transport time but still
may not be sufficiently rapid to reach all markets. Shipment by rail or ocean cargo vessel is
slower but more economical. Refrigerated shipping costs are substantially higher than the
cost for shipments not requiring refrigeration. Furthermore, refrigeration is not effective to
adequately
restrain the growth of psychrotrophic microorganisms capable of activity attemperatures
below 70C. over sustained intervals of time. Each process of pasteurization or similar
pathogen reduction treatment imposes not only expense, but may also negatively impact the
flavor quality, nutritional content, and other sensory characteristics, such as color, of the
treated organic liquid with a resulting negative market impact. Additionally, thermoduric
microorganisms that are potential pathogens or cause spoilage may survive the
pasteurization process.
As a result of these concerns, today when arranging for the shipment of fresh milk from the
Australia to Asia Pacific, there are two principal options, namely:
Milk is pasteurized before bulk shipment and is re-pasteurized prior to local packaging for
retail sale. The result is a flavour not as fresh as with single pasteurization and a higher cost
due to multiple handling. Milk is pasteurized and packaged for retail sale at or near the origin
and then shipped in refrigerated containers to the destination. The result is higher cost and a
loss of shelf life at retail due to the transit period.
The repeated pasteurization of the first option is also particularly undesirable because while
most milk borne micro-organisms are neutralized by pasteurization, their lipolytic and
proteolytic enzymes can Survive and result in undesirable lipolysis and proteolysis.
The major strategy to extend shelf life of unpasteurized perishable organic liquids has been
to provide rapid refrigeration. For instance, decreasing the storage temperature from 6
degree C to 2 degree C. increases the time for the psychrotrophic count to reach 106 cfu
(colony forming units)/ml from 2.9 to 5 days (Griffith, 1987).
Several authors have reported on the use of unpressurized carbon dioxide as an anti
microbial agent in foods including dairy products. The concept of using C02 to inhibit the
growth of unwanted microorganisms in dairy products stems from the technology of modified
atmosphere packaging. This method of shelf life extension has been adapted to fluid dairy
products by directly injecting the inert gas (C02) thereby enhancing its inhibitory effect. The

direct post-pasteurization addition of carbon dioxide (DAC) to neutral and acidic pH products
can be used to control contaminating organisms. DAC is widely used by cottage cheese
processors in North America. Carbon dioxide has also been shown to extend the shelf life of
yogurt, to improve the keeping quality of raw milk, and to extend the yields of cheese
subsequently pre- pared from such milk. However, under specific combinations of pressure
and temperature, C02 effectively precipitates the proteins from milk. For example, at 38
degree C. and pressures above 5514 kilopascals (kPa), or about 800 psi, complete
precipitation of the casein proteins that give milk its distinctive white colour results. C02
pressure treatments applied at a pressure of only 294 kPa (about 43 psi) at 20 degree C.
may result in casein aggregation. Accordingly, pressurization has been avoided due to
potential deleterious effects upon the treated liquids.
In addition, and not unrelatedly, there is an absence of suitable pressure vessels for
pressurized bulk storage and transport of organic liquids. The studies utilizing CO pressure
treatments have been principally directed to pathogen reduction treatments with high CO
pressures as an alternative to thermal pasteurization. Lower CO pressures have not been
previously utilized as conditions of storage and transportation to reduce microbial growth.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention provides a method that extends the stability of raw milk and other
perishable organic liquids sufficiently to permit their transport by rail or cargo ship, or by
truck for greater distances than is ordinarily accomplished today; or shipment by any mode
that would benefit the end user by being more cost effective or offering more time to handle
or package the product for human consumption or for other food, feed grade,
pharmaceutical, or industrial use or extended storage. In furtherance of the invention, raw
milk or other perishable organic liquids are preferably cooled to the greatest extent practical
and injected with carbon dioxide as they are loaded in food grade storage and transport
containers that are pressure vessels according to applicable pressure vessel codes, so that
the filled containers can be pressurized with about 20 to 50 psi (138 to 345 kPa), and more
preferably about 30 to 50 psi (207 to 345 kPa), of carbon dioxide. Such carbon dioxide head
pressure does not result in protein precipitation and maintains concentrations of sufficient
parts per million in the raw milk or other organic liquids so as to Suppress pathogen growth,
at least of the most common obligate aerobic varieties, by lowering the ph and by initiating
deleterious intercellular activity and by surrounding the pathogens in what is equivalent to
their own output. In such a state, the pathogens animation and reproduction ceases or is
suitably reduced so as to inhibit their growth and multiplication, which would otherwise result
in spoiled product.
The pressurized carbon dioxide rich raw milk and other perishable organic liquids may then
be shipped or stored in the container without spoilage for periods of time greater than
untreated and un-pressurized products, provided the storage tanks are sufficiently insulated
or refrigerated to prevent excessive heating of the contents. Upon delivery, or when the milk
or other organic liquid is needed for production, the container is unloaded and the carbon
dioxide is released from the liquid by Some form of agitation, stirring or mixing independent
of or in conjunction with negative (vacuum) pressure and the liquid is then processed in its
usual fashion. The present process can effectively extend the life of a wide variety of
perishable organic liquids including dairy products, Vegetable juices, fruit juices, plant
extracts, fungal extracts, flavouring agents, and combinations thereof.


   Editorial Note
    <removed-apn>
There are two pages of claims only

We claim:
1. A process to inhibit the growth of microorganisms in raw milk comprising:
        (a) adding carbon dioxide (CO) to the raw milk to obtain a CO, concentration of at
        least about 200 parts per million;
        (b) placing the CO enhanced raw milk in a vessel and maintaining a CO
        concentration of at least about 200 parts per million without Subjecting the raw milk
        to undesirable biological changes;
        (c) releasing the CO from the raw milk;
        (d) processing the raw milk, and
        (e) packaging the processed milk for distribution.
2. The process of claim 1 wherein the processing of the raw milk after releasing the CO
comprises one or more of the processes selected from the group of pasteurization,
homogenization, condensing, culturing and evaporation.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the CO is mixed with the raw milk and maintained at a
pressure and temperature so that the resulting pH of the raw milk is no greater than 6.
4. A method of transporting raw milk comprising the steps of:
        (a) filling a bulk pressure vessel at a first location with raw milk mixed with CO at a
        first location to achieve a CO concentration between about 200 and 2400 parts per
        million;
        (b) maintaining the raw milk mixed with CO in the pressure vessel at a CO, head
        pressure of at least 68 kPa during transportation by at least one of truck, rail and ship
        to a second location;
        (c) removing the C02 from the raw milk using a process comprising at least one of
        agitation, vacuum and negative pressure, all such that the raw milk product does not
        Sustain undesirable biological changes;
        (d) processing the raw milk and packaging the processed product.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein undesirable biological changes include one or more of the
Standard Plate Count of the raw milk increasing by more than 1 log 10 cfu/ml; the counts of
thermoduric bacteria, psychotrophic bacteria and E. coli and coliform of the raw milk
increasing by more than 1 log 10 cfu/ml; and protein precipitation from the raw milk.
6. The method of claim 4 wherein undesirable biological changes include the Standard Plate
Count of the raw milk exceeding 5 log 10 cfu/ml.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein undesirable biological changes include one or more of the
Standard Plate Count of the raw milk increasing by more than 1 log 10 cfu/ml; the counts of
thermoduric bacteria, psychotrophic bacteria and E. coli and coliform of the raw milk
increasing by more than 1 log 10 cfu/ml; and protein precipitation from the raw milk.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein undesirable biological changes include the Standard Plate
Count of the raw milk exceeding 5 log 10 cfu/ml.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein while the CO enhanced raw milk is in the vessel, the
vessel is transported by at least one of truck, rail and ship to a different location.

10. The method of claim 1 wherein the vessel is an inter modal tank Suitable for transport by
at least one of the group of truck, rail and cargo ship.
11. The method of claim 1 wherein the CO, is released from the raw milk by one or more of
agitation, Vacuum, and negative pressure.
12. The method of claim 1 wherein the CO enhanced raw milk is in the vessel for at least
four days.
13. The method of claim 1 wherein the CO enhanced raw milk is in the vessel for at least
three days.
14. The method of claim 1 wherein at least some of the releasing the CO from the raw milk
occurs during processing of the milk with one or more of the processes selected from the
group of pasteurization, homogenization, condensing, culturing and evaporation.
15. The method of claim 1 wherein carbon dioxide is added to the raw milk at least in part by
the use of dry ice.
16. The method of claim 1 wherein carbon dioxide is added to the raw milk at least in part by
the use of a sparge.
17. The method of claim 1 wherein the C02 enhanced raw milk is removed from the vessel
utilizing compressed air.

                   Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                     <removed-apn>
              There are twelve pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
