A portable Electromagnetic Induction (EMI) sensor for non-destructive concrete corrosion
estimation is disclosed. The sensor, which uses a Multiple Loop Coil (MLC), is able to detect and
differentiate the chemical contents present in a concrete structure. The sensor is integrated with
various component such as batteries, measuring sensor head, micro controller, memory storage for
saving measured data, LED for indication and graphical display of measurement on the device. The
MLC technique enables detection of corrosion of concrete structures for different chemical contents
at any stage of corrosion occurring in real-time.

Drawings
            1
                                     3
           2                         4
                                     6
          5
          7
                                     8
                                     9
                 Fig. 1
              10        13
        14
                   11             12
                           Fig. 2

                                       AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
                              COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                  INOVATION PATENT
        AN EMI SENSOR FOR NON-DESTRUCTIVE CORROSION ESTIMATION IN CONCRETE
        The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
of performing it Known to me.

                                            1
  AN EMI SENSOR FOR NON-DESTRUCTIVE CORROSION ESTIMATION IN CONCRETE
Corrosion is the destructive attack of a material's surface by chemical or
electrochemical reaction with environment. It is primarily induced by acids,
sulphate, ammonium ions, magnesium ions, pure water or alkali aggregate
reactions. Though the surface deposits caused by corrosion can be beneficial they
are more often damaging to the host material and/or surrounding material(s) or
structure(s). Corrosion of steel reinforcement is the main cause of damage and
early failure of reinforced concrete structures in civil engineering. This mode of
failure often    leads to enormous        unbudgeted direct costs for inspection,
maintenance, restoration and/or replacement of the associated infrastructure;
plus potential indirect costs. Concrete can deteriorate in a number of ways, but
concrete degradation due to the corrosion induced deterioration of the reinforcing
steel dominates.
Initiation and propagation are the two main stages involved in the corrosion
process which are supported by means of various mechanisms (i.e. diffusion,
sorption,    permeation     and    migration).  Aggressive  (corrosive)   agents   are
transported through the concrete layer (protective cover) during the corrosion
initiation stage, which is followed by corrosion propagation causing de-passivation
of the steel. This in turn leads to an electrochemical oxidation reaction, resulting in
weakening (thinning) of the reinforcing steel and spalling of the concrete. Various
reported research focuses on one particular type of corrosion resulting from
chemical or electrochemical reaction to the environment, more specifically pitting
corrosion. The new sensor proposed in this report is able to detect and
differentiate the chemical contents present in the concrete structure which causes
pitting and can consequently be used as a NDE technique for concrete corrosion
detection and further evaluation.

                                         2
To detect corrosion within a concrete structure, many solutions have been
developed, amongst them are Non-destructive Evaluation (NDE) techniques which
are normally preferred because of their nature and cost effectiveness. But also
comes with some limitations. Among several other reported NDE techniques, this
invention focuses on exploitation of the Electromagnetic Induction (EMI) principle,
which is considered suitable, by the inventors, for concrete corrosion detection
and evaluation. Essentially, an appropriately configured EMI based technique is
able to detect moisture, determine crack presence and estimate size, determine
susceptibility of concrete towards corrosion, identify regions susceptible to
chloride penetration and it can also be used to map corrosion activity. However, in
this invention, a novel NDE technique is being proposed to monitor concrete
corrosion, based on an Electro-Magnetic Induction (EMI) principle. The focus for
this research is the detection of the corrosive chemical properties, which
adversely affects the concrete. Sea water is one of the main causes of corrosion in
concrete. Sodium Chloride (NaCI) is a chemical present in sea water responsible
for pitting corrosion. Sea water generally contains 3.5% of NaCl. Hence, it is
imperative to have NaCl solution as a testing corrosive chemical for this research.
To elaborate, the detection is more focused on the corrosive chemical contents
and/or levels that are present in a concrete structure. By detecting these chemical
contents and/or levels, the corrosion of concrete can be predicted based on the
type and the amount of corrosive chemical compounds present in the concrete.
Different concepts are being developed with the use of the EMI principle to detect
minerals beneath the earth's surface; but till to date no literature has been found
where an EMI based NDE sensor is being used to monitor concrete corrosion.
An adequate number of researches have been carried out and designed
various Sensors for Non-destructive Corrosion Estimation in Concrete worldwide
but all comes with their own merits and demerits. This invention has been
specially devised in order to provide a Nobel way of NDE of concrete corrosion
based on Electromagnetic Induction (EMI) principles following Faraday's Law of

                                     3
electromagnetic induction.   This EMI Sensor for Non-destructive Corrosion
Estimation in Concrete is mainly comprises with mechanical and electrical
components. A portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive concrete corrosion
estimation device which utilizes A/C current for the transmitter coil and
generates D/C voltage to the receiver coil following the Faraday's law
thereof. The basic principle of Time Domain Electromagnetic (TDEM) is
followed and exploration of this concept is applied for the design of
concrete corrosion sensor in this teaching. It is an electromagnetic method
used to provide the vertical distribution of resistivity within the concrete
surface. The measured voltage changes linearly with resistivity and detect
the corrosion stage of the concrete as a NDT.
A portable EMI Sensor for Non-destructive Corrosion Estimation in
Concrete in accordance with this invention comprises a container having
free space within it and a close fitting cover on top surface. The said
container is attached with two sets of coils (Transmitter and Receiver) and
work as a hand held portable device. Inside the said container a
microcontroller, set of rechargeable battery, SD/Micro-SD card port are
placed. The said micro controller can be connected to a PC via USB or WiFi
communication protocol to access the measured data and also can be used
for re-programming the controller. The said enclosure/casing top cover has
a LCD user viewing display and Power switch and voltage controller.
The container of the EMI Sensor for Non-destructive Corrosion Estimation
in Concrete is preferably made from plastic material; however other
materials can also be used. For example sheet metal fabricated containers
or perspex made is found also suitable.
The invention and all the related features will be better understood with
reference to the illustrations of embodiments of the invention which are
provided to assist in an understanding of the present teaching.

                                        4
Brief Description Of The Drawings
The present teaching will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings in which:
Figure 1 is a perspective view of a portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive
concrete corrosion estimation device with external parts and the co-acting
position of the MLC, enclosure, handles, LCD, voltage regulators and top
cover.
Figure 2 is a perspective view of a portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive
concrete corrosion estimation device of Figure 1 includes internal parts and
the co-acting position of the controller, battery units, SD/micro card slot,
A/C power input port, USB and Bluetooth connectivity unit.
Figure 3 is an exploded view of the portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive
concrete corrosion estimation device showing all components.
Detailed Description Of The Drawings
The application will now be described with reference to some exemplary
portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive concrete corrosion estimation device
which are provided to assist in an understanding of the present teaching.
Referring to Figures 1 to 3 there is provided a portable EMI sensor for Non
destructive concrete corrosion estimation device which utilizes A/C current for
the transmitter coil and generates D/C voltage to the receiver coil following
the Faraday's law thereof. The basic principle of Time Domain
Electromagnetic (TDEM) is followed and exploration of this concept is
applied for the design of concrete corrosion sensor in this teaching. It is an
electromagnetic method used to provide the vertical distribution of
resistivity within the concrete surface. The measured voltage changes
linearly with resistivity and detect the corrosion stage of the concrete as a
NDT.

                                       5
Referring now to Figure 1 there is provided a diagrammatic illustration of
the enclosure/casing 5 which is a rectangular box to contain the other
sensitive electronics components preventing from the harsh environment
with two handles 6-7 and a cover 3 in its wall said top, which is made to
access the internal components for installation and maintenance purpose.
The said top comprises of a LCD user view display 1, Power switch and
voltage regulator switch 2. A micro/Micro SD card slot 4 is also place on the
said top.
The said enclosure/casing 5 is connected with the sensor head of multi loop
coils 9 (MLC) which are attached with a holder 8. The said coils 9 act as
transmitter and receiver unit connected with the microcontroller system
via cables 15-16. AC power is supplied to the transmitter coils and the
receiver coils receive the induced electromagnetic voltage signal. Both the
coils are placed on air media then there is no change of the voltage output,
but If they placed on the concrete media then depending on the internal
corrosive situation different output voltage is obtained which indicate the
degree of corrosion.
Internal electronics components (inside the said enclosure/casing 5) are
comprises of a micro controller system 10, a set of battery unit 11, A/C
power input unit 12, SD/Micro card slot 14 , USB 13 and Bluetooth 17
connectivity unit.
While the exemplary teaching will be described with reference to the
portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive concrete corrosion estimation device, it
will be appreciated that a portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive concrete
corrosion estimation device 1 to 17 in accordance with the present teaching
may be used with a variety of different dimensions and indeed whole or
part of individual components. It is not intended to limit the portable EMI
sensor for Non-destructive concrete      corrosion estimation device to any
particular shape or size.
The EMI sensor device as described in the present application provides a
portable,   low cost, EMI     sensor for Non-destructive    concrete  corrosion
estimation system with compact characteristic and can be used for concrete
infrastructures corrosion monitoring application.

                                       6
It will be understood that what has been described herein are exemplary
portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive concrete corrosion estimation device.
While the present application has been described with reference            to
exemplary arrangements it will be understood that it is not intended       to
limit the teaching of the present application to such arrangements         as
modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope      of
the application.
Similarly the words comprises/comprising when used in the specification
are used to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or
components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more
additional features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.

                                             7
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. A portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive concrete corrosion estimation
device in accordance with this invention comprises an enclosure (i.e. a
container) assembly includes a sensor head with two handles.
2. Enclosure of the portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive concrete corrosion
estimation device as claimed in claim 1 formed using plastic metal or sheet metal.
3. The portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive concrete corrosion estimation
device further comprising a set of multiple loop coils (MLC) sensor head attached
from one side of the container as claimed in claim 1 and 2.
4. The MLC as claimed in claim 3, where the sensor head supported with holder,
laid in coplanar manner a which is made from X coil turns for transmitter and Y
coil turns for receiver. The ratio of X:Y is 2:1.
5. A device as claimed in any preceding claim, further comprising two handles for
the purpose of using this system as hand-held device.
6. A device as claimed in claim 1 and claim 2, wherein a Microcontroller unit
is attached for processing the sensor signals and analyze for the corrosion
detection and estimation.
7. A device as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the Microcontroller
unit connected with a set of rechargeable batteries to supply power to the
devices.
8. A device as claimed in claim 1 and claim 2, wherein a LCD graphical direct
user view display is attached on the device that            is connected    to the
microcontroller as claimed in claim 6.
9. A device as claimed in claim 1 and claim 2, wherein a SD cards/micro SD
card storage slot is connected to the microcontroller as claimed in claim in 6 for
recording and transferring measured data.
10. A device as claimed in claim 1 and claim 2, wherein an USB connectivity
unit is attached with microcontroller as claimed in claim 6 for access to the
microcontroller via pc to program updated and data transfer purpose.

11. A device as claimed in any preceding claim, further comprising an AC power
input unit to supply current to the transmitter coil as claimed in claim 3.
12. A device as claimed in claim 1 and claim 2, comprising two regulators to
control the voltage of the transmitter coils as claimed in claim 3.
13. A device as claimed in claim 1 and claim 2, wherein a Bluetooth
connectivity unit is connected with the microcontroller as claimed in claim
6 to interface with smartphone and communicate with an Android app for easy
report generation and cloud database backup.
14. The portable EMI sensor for Non-destructive concrete corrosion estimation
device as claimed in claim 1 and claim 2; thereof the cover can be removed to
allow the casing/enclosure to be access equipment as claimed in any preceding
claim.

<removed-date>
              Drawings
                         1
                                                                                  3
                         2                                                        4
                                                                                  6
<removed-apn>
                         5
                         7
                                                                                  8
                                                                                  9
                                       Fig. 1
                                                              15
                                                                        16
                                                13
                                  10
                     14
                                                                   17        12
                             11
                                                     Fig. 2

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 3

