  ABSTRACT
  Feedstocks, obtained at least in part from a plant material that has been modified with respect
  to its wild type, are processed to produce useful intermediates and products, such as energy,
  fuels, foods or materials. For example, systems are described that can treat such feedstock
5 materials, e.g., to reduce the recalcitrance of the feedstock, and use the treated feedstock
  materials to produce an intermediate or product, e.g., by saccharification and/or fermentation.

    WO 2012/112529                                                           PCT/US2012/025023
                             PROCESSING BIOMASS
                                       RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
   61/442,781, filed February 14, 2011. The complete disclosure of this provisional
   application is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
 5                                        BACKGROUND
            Cellulosic and lignocellulosic materials are produced, processed, and used in large
   quantities in a number of applications. Often such materials are used once, and then
   discarded as waste, or are simply considered to be waste materials, e.g., bagasse, sawdust,
   and stover. In some cases, cellulosic and lignocellulosic materials are obtained by
10 growing and harvesting plants.
                                            SUMMARY
            Generally, this invention relates to using and/or processing feedstock materials
   e.g., cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic feedstock materials, including plants that have been
   modified with respect to their wild types, e.g., genetically modified plants, and to
15 intermediates and products made therefrom. Many of the methods described herein
   provide materials that can be more readily utilized by a variety of microorganisms to
   produce useful intermediates and products, e.g., energy, a fuel, a food or a material.
            In one aspect, the invention features methods for making products that include
   physically treating a cellulosic, lignocellulosic and/or starchy feedstock obtained at least
20 in part from a plant that has been modified with respect to a wild type variety of the plant
   e.g., the plant has been genetically modified. In some embodiments the entire plant can
   be used. In certain embodiments, a portion of the plant is utilized.
            Some implementations include one or more of the following features. The
   feedstock may include a plant that has recombinant DNA and/or recombinant genes. The
25 modified plant may express one or more recombinant materials, for example, a protein, a
   polymer and/or a macromolecule. The method may further include obtaining from the
   feedstock materials such as pharmaceuticals, nutriceuticals, proteins, fats, vitamins, oils,
                                                   1

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
   fiber, minerals, sugars, carbohydrates and alcohols. The feedstock can include a crop
   residue e.g., corn cobs and/or corn stover, wheat straw, or the feedstock can be a
   genetically modified corn, wheat or soybean plant. The method may further include
   treating the feedstock with an organism and/or enzyme, in some cases producing a sugar
 5 e.g., in the form of a solution or suspension. Optionally the sugar can be fermented. The
   physical treatment can include irradiation of the feedstock. In some implementations, the
   irradiated feedstock may be utilized as an edible material, e.g., as an animal feed. If
   desired, an enzyme such as a cellulase can be added to the edible material, e.g., to
   increase the nutrient value release.
10          Irradiating may in some cases be performed using one or more electron beam
   devices. In some cases, irradiating comprises applying a total dose of from about 5 Mrad
   to about 50 Mrad of radiation to the feedstock. Irradiation can sterilize the material prior
   to further processing and or storage prior to use. In preferred implementations, irradiating
   reduces the recalcitrance of the feedstock.
15          The plant may have been modified, for example, with a modification including
   enhancement of resistance to insects, fungal diseases, and other pests and disease-causing
   agents; increased tolerance to herbicides; increased drought resistance; extended
   temperature range; enhanced tolerance to poor soil; enhanced stability or shelf-life;
   greater yield; larger fruit size; stronger stalks; enhanced shatter resistance; reduced time
20 to crop maturity; more uniform germination times; higher or modified starch production;
   enhanced nutrient production, such as enhanced, steroid, sterol, hormone, fatty acid,
   glycerol, polyhydroxyalkanoate, amino acid, vitamin and/or protein production; modified
   lignin content; enhanced cellulose, hemicellulose and/or lignin degradation; including of
   a phenotype marker to allow qualitative detection; reduced recalcitrance and enhanced
25 phytate metabolism. The plant may be, for example, a genetically modified alfalfa,
   potato, beet, corn, wheat, cotton, rapeseed, rice, or sugarcane plant. The feedstock may
   include a crop residue from a modified plant, for example the feedstock may include corn
   cobs and/or corn stover. The plant may be, for example, a genetically modified corn or
   soybean plant, or any of the many genetically modified plants that are grown.
                                                    2

    WO 2012/112529                                                            PCT/US2012/025023
           In another aspect, the invention features a product comprising sugar derived from
   a feedstock obtained at least in part from a plant that has been modified with respect to a
   wild type variety of the plant, for example the plant has been genetically modified.
           In a further aspect, the invention features a product comprising an irradiated
 5 cellulosic or lignocellulosic feedstock obtained at least in part from a plant that has been
   modified with respect to a wild type variety of the plant. The product may further
   include a microorganism and/or an enzyme, and in some cases a liquid medium.
           Without being bound by any theory, it is believed that the use of modified plants
   can be advantageous over the non-modified wild type. For example, an enhancement of
10 resistance to insects, fungal diseases, and other pests and disease-causing agents; an
   increased tolerance to herbicides; increased drought resistance; an extended temperature
   range; enhanced tolerance to poor soil; a larger fruit size; stronger stalks; enhanced
   shatter resistance; reduced time to crop maturity; more uniform germination times; can
   provide higher yields and a more varied feedstock source, both of which can lower the
15 biomass feedstock cost. In another example, enhanced stability or shelf-life can be
   advantageous to biomass inventory quality. As another example, enhanced nutrient
   production, such as enhanced steroid, sterol, hormone, fatty acid, glycerol,
   polyhydroxyalkanoate, amino acid, vitamin and/or protein production can provide
   products or intermediates with higher nutrient quality that may improve a process e.g., a
20 fermentation, or a product, e.g., an animal feed. Furthermore, for example, higher or
   modified starch production, modified lignin content; and/or enhanced cellulose,
   hemicellulose and/or lignin degradation can reduce the recalcitrance of the feedstock
   making it easier to process.
           The term "plant," as used herein, refers to any of various photosynthetic,
25 eukaryotic, multicellular organisms of the kingdom Plantae, including but not limited to
   agricultural crops, trees, grasses, and algae.
           "Structurally modifying" a feedstock, as that phrase is used herein, means
   changing the molecular structure of the feedstock in any way, including the chemical
   bonding arrangement, crystalline structure, or conformation of the feedstock. The change
30 may be, for example, a change in the integrity of the crystalline structure, e.g., by
   microfracturing within the structure, which may not be reflected by diffractive
                                                  3

    WO 2012/112529                                                           PCT/US2012/025023
   measurements of the crystallinity of the material. Such changes in the structural integrity
   of the material can be measured indirectly by measuring the yield of a product at different
   levels of structure-modifying treatment. In addition, or alternatively, the change in the
   molecular structure can include changing the supramolecular structure of the material,
 5 oxidation of the material, changing an average molecular weight, changing an average
   crystallinity, changing a surface area, changing a degree of polymerization, changing a
   porosity, changing a degree of branching, grafting on other materials, changing a
   crystalline domain size, or changing an overall domain size.
            Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
10 same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
   invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
   described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, suitable
   methods and materials are described below. All publications, patents applications, patents
   and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The
15 materials, methods, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.
            Other features and advantages will be apparent from the following detailed
   description, and from the claims.
                                DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
            FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating conversion of a feedstock into products and
20 co-products.
            FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating treatment of the feedstock and the use of the
   treated feedstock in a fermentation process.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            Feedstocks that are obtained from plants that have been modified with respect to a
25 wild type variety, e.g., by genetic modification or other types of modification, can be
   processed to produce useful intermediates and products such as those described herein.
   Systems and processes are described herein that can use as feedstock materials e.g.,
   cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic materials that are readily available, but can be difficult to
   process by processes such as fermentation. Many of the processes described herein can
                                                  4

    WO 2012/112529                                                           PCT/US2012/025023
   effectively lower the recalcitrance level of the feedstock, making it easier to process, such
   as by bioprocessing (e.g., with any microorganism described herein, such as a
   homoacetogen or a heteroacetogen, and/or any enzyme described herein), thermal
   processing (e.g., gasification or pyrolysis) or chemical methods (e.g., acid hydrolysis or
 5 oxidation). The feedstock can be treated or processed using one or more of any of the
   methods described herein, such as mechanical treatment, chemical treatment, radiation,
   sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis or steam explosion. The various treatment systems and
   methods can be used in combinations of two, three, or even four or more of these
   technologies or others described herein and elsewhere.
10          In addition to reducing the recalcitrance, the methods outlined above can also
   sterilize lignocellulosic or cellulosic feedstocks. This can be advantageous because
   feedstocks can be infected with, for example, a bacteria, a yeast, an insect and/or a
   fungus, that may have a deleterious effect on further processes and/or prematurely
   degrade the materials.
15          Feedstock materials, such as cellulosic and lignocellulosic feedstock materials,
   can be obtained from plants that have been modified with respect to a wild type variety.
   Such modifications may be for example, by any of the methods described in any patent or
   patent application referenced herein. As another example, plants may be modified
   through the iterative steps of selection and breeding to obtain desired traits in a plant.
20 Furthermore, the plants can have had genetic material removed, modified, silenced and/or
   added with respect to the wild type variety. For example, genetically modified plants can
   be produced by recombinant DNA methods, where genetic modifications include
   introducing or modifying specific genes from parental varieties, or, for example, by using
   transgenic breeding wherein a specific gene or genes are introduced to a plant from a
25 different species of plant and/or bacteria. Another way to create genetic variation is
   through mutation breeding wherein new alleles are artificially created from endogeneous
   genes. The artificial genes can be created by a variety of ways including treating the plant
   or seeds with, for example, chemical mutagens (e.g., using alkylating agents, epoxides,
   alkaloids, peroxides, formaldehyde), irradiation (e.g., X-rays, gamma rays, neutrons, beta
30 particles, alpha particles, protons, deuterons, UV radiation) and temperature shocking or
   other external stressing and subsequent selection techniques. Other methods of providing
                                                   5

    WO 2012/112529                                                            PCT/US2012/025023
   modified genes is through error prone PCR and DNA shuffling followed by insertion of
   the desired modified DNA into the desired plant or seed. Methods of introducing the
   desired genetic variation in the seed or plant include, for example, the use of a bacterial
   carrier, biolistics, calcium phosphate precipitation, electroporation, gene splicing, gene
 5 silencing, lipofection, microinjection and viral carriers.
            Feedstock can be derived from a plant including, but not limited to canola,
   crambe, coconut, maize, mustard, castor bean, sesame, cottonseed, linseed, soybean,
   Arabidopsis phaseolus, peanut, alfalfa, wheat, rice, oat, sorghum, rapeseed, rye,
   tritordeum, millet, fescue, rye grass, sugarcane, cranberry, papaya, banana, safflower, oil
10 palms, flax, muskmelon, apple, cucumber, dendrobium, gladiolus, chrysanthemum,
   liliaceae, cotton, eucalyptus, sunflower, Brassica campestris, Brassica napus, turfgrass,
   switch grass, cord grass, sugarbeet, coffee, dioscorea, acacia, apricot, artichoke, arugula,
   asparagus, avocado, barley, beans, beet, blackberry, blueberry, broccoli, brussels sprouts,
   cabbage, cantaloupe, carrot, cassava, cauliflower, celery, cherry, cilantro, clementine,
15 corn, cotton, Douglas fir, bamboo, seaweed, algae, eggplant, endive, escarole, fennel,
   figs, forest tree, gourd, grape, grapefruit, honey dew, jicama, kiwifruit, lettuce, leeks,
   lemon, lime, loblolly pine, mango, melon, mushroom, nut, oat, okra, onion, orange,
   parsley, pea, peach, pear, pepper, persimmon, pine, pineapple, plantain, plum,
   pomegranate, poplar, potato, oryza sativa, pumpkin, quince, radiata pine, radicchio,
20 radish, raspberry, rye, southern pine, soybean, spinach, squash, strawberry, sweet potato,
   sweetgum, tangerine, tea, tobacco, tomato, watermelon, wheat, yams, zucchini or
   mixtures of these. Preferably the feedstock material is derived from plant material not
   suitable for human consumption such as wood, agricultural waste, grasses such as
   switchgrass or miscanthus, rice hulls, bagasse, cotton, jute, hemp, flax, bamboo, sisal,
25 abaci, straw, corn cobs, corn stover, hay, coconut hair, seaweed, algae or mixtures of
   these.
            The advantages of plant modification include, for example, an enhancement of
   resistance to insects, fungal diseases, and other pests and disease-causing agents; an
   increased tolerance to herbicides; increased drought resistance; an extended temperature
30 range; enhanced tolerance to poor soil; enhanced stability or shelf-life; a greater yield;
   larger fruit size; stronger stalks; enhanced shatter resistance; reduced time to crop
                                                   6

    WO 2012/112529                                                            PCT/US2012/025023
   maturity; more uniform germination times; higher or modified starch production;
   enhanced nutrient production, such as enhanced steroid, sterol, hormone, fatty acid,
   glycerol, polyhydroxyalkanoate, amino acid, vitamin and/or protein production; modified
   lignin content; enhanced cellulose, hemicellulose and/or lignin degradation; inclusion of
 5 a phenotype marker to allow qualitative detection (e.g., seed coat color); and modified
   phytate content. Any feedstock materials derived from these modified plants can also
   benefit from these many advantages. For example, a feedstock material such as a
   lignocellulosic material can have better shelf life, be easier to process, have a better land
   to-energy conversion ratio, and/or have a better nutritional value to any microbes that are
10 used in processing of the lignocellulosic material. In addition, any feedstock material
   derived from such plants can be less expensive and/or more plentiful. In some cases,
   modified plants can be grown in a greater variety of climates and/or soil types, for
   example in marginal or depleted soils.
            Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants having an increased
15 resistance to disease. For example, potatoes which have reduced symptoms from the
   infestation of fungal pathogen Phytophthora infestans are discussed in U.S. Patent No.
   7,122,719. A possible advantage of such resistance is that the yield, quality and shelf life
   of the feedstock materials may be improved.
            Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants with increased
20 resistance to parasites, for example, by encoding genes for the production of 6-endotoxins
   as exemplified in U.S. Patent No. 6,023,013. A possible advantage of such resistance is
   that the yield, quality and shelf life of the feedstock materials may be improved.
            Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants having an increased
   resistance to herbicides. For example, the alfalfa plant J-101, as described in U.S. Patent
25 No. 7,566,817, has an increased resistance to glyphosphate herbicides. As a further
   example, modified plants described in U.S. Patent No. 6,107,549 have an increased
   resistance to pyridine family herbicides. Furthermore, modified plants described in U.S.
   Patent No. 7,498,429 have increased resistance to imidazolinones. A possible advantage
   of such resistance is that the yield and quality of the feedstock materials may be
30 improved.
                                                    7

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
            Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants having an increased
   stress resistance (for example, water deficit, cold, heat, salt, pest, disease, or nutrient
   stress). For example, such plants have been described in U.S. Patent No. 7,674,952. A
   possible advantage of such resistance is that the yield and quality of the feedstock
 5 materials may be improved. Moreover, such plants may be grown in adverse conditions,
   e.g., marginal or depleted soil or in a harsh climate.
            Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants with improved
   characteristics such as larger fruits. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent No.
   7,335,812. A possible advantage of such resistance is that the yield and quality of the
10 feedstock materials may be improved.
            Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants with improved
   characteristics such reduced pod shatter. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent
   No. 7,659,448. A possible advantage of such resistance is that the yield and quality of the
   feedstock materials may be improved.
15          Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants having enhanced or
   modified starch content. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent No. 6,538,178. A
   possible advantage of such modification is that the quality of the feedstock is improved.
            Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants with a modified oil,
   fatty acid or glycol production. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent No.
20 7,405,344. Fatty acids and oils are excellent substrates for microbial energy-yielding
   metabolism and may provide an advantage to downstream processing of the feedstock
   for, for example, fuel production. Fatty acids and oil variation may also be advantageous
   in changing the viscosity and solubility of various components during downstream
   processing of the feedstock. The spent feedstock may have a better nutrient mix for use as
25 animal feed or have higher calorie content useful as a direct fuel for burning.
            Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants with a modified steroid,
   sterol and hormone content. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent No.
   6,822,142. A possible advantage is that this may provide a better nutrient mix for
   microorganisms used in processing of the feedstock. After processing, the spent
30 feedstock may have a better nutrient mix for use as animal feed.
                                                  8

    WO 2012/112529                                                          PCT/US2012/025023
           Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants with
   polyhydroxyalkanoate producing ability. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent
   No. 6,175,061. Polyhydroxyalkanoates are a useful energy and carbon reserve for various
   microorganisms and may be beneficial to the microorganisms used in downstream
 5 feedstock processing. Also, since polyhydroxyalkanoate is biodegradable, it may impart
   advantages by possibly reducing recalcitrance in plant material after an aging period of
   the stored feedstock. Further downstream, the spent feedstock may have a better nutrient
   mix for use as animal feed or have higher calorie content useful as a direct fuel for
   burning.
10         Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants with enhanced amino
   acid production. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent No. 7,615,621. A
   possible advantage is that this may provide a better nutrient mix for microorganisms used
   in processing of the feedstock. After processing, the spent feedstock may have a better
   nutrient mix for use as animal feed.
15         Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants with elevated synthesis
   of vitamins. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent No. 6,841,717. A possible
   advantage is that this may provide a better nutrient mix for microorganisms used in
   processing of the feedstock. After processing, the spent feedstock may have a better
   nutrient mix for use as animal feed.
20         Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants that degrade lignin and
   cellulose in the plant after harvest. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent No.
   7,049,485. Feedstock materials can also be obtained from modified plants with modified
   lignin content. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent No. 7,799,906. A possible
   advantage of such plants is reduced recalcitrance relative to the wild types of the same
25 plants.
           Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants with a modified
   phenotype for easy qualitative detection. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent
   No. 7,402,731. A possible advantage is ease of managing crops and seeds for different
   product streams such as biofuels, building materials and animal feed.
30         Feedstock materials can be obtained from modified plants with a reduced amount
   of phytate. Such plants have been described in U.S. Patent No. 7,714,187. A possible
                                                  9

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
   advantage is that this may provide a better nutrient mix for microorganisms used in
   processing of the feedstock. After processing, the spent feedstock may have a better
   nutrient mix for use as animal feed.
            Modified plants and/or plant materials and methods for making such
 5 modifications have been described in the U.S. Patents and U.S. Published applications
   listed at the end of this document (immediately before the claims), the entire disclosure of
   each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
   SYSTEMS FOR TREATING A FEEDSTOCK
10          FIG. 1 shows one particular process for converting a feedstock, particularly a
   feedstock obtained at least in part from a modified plant material, into useful intermediates
   and products. Process 10 includes initially mechanically treating the feedstock (12), e.g., to
   reduce the size of the feedstock 110. The mechanically treated feedstock is then treated with
   a physical treatment (14) to modify its structure, for example by weakening or
15 microfracturing bonds in the crystalline structure of the material. Next, the structurally
   modified material may in some cases be subjected to further mechanical treatment (16).
   This mechanical treatment can be the same as or different from the initial mechanical
   treatment. For example, the initial treatment can be a size reduction (e.g., cutting) step
   followed by a shearing step, while the further treatment can be a grinding or milling step.
20          The material can then be subjected to further structure-modifying treatment and
   mechanical treatment, if further structural change (e.g., reduction in recalcitrance) is desired
   prior to further processing.
            Next, the treated material can be processed with a primary processing step 18, e.g.,
   saccharification and/or fermentation, to produce intermediates and products (e.g., energy,
25 fuel, foods and materials). In some cases, the output of the primary processing step is
   directly useful but, in other cases, requires further processing provided by a post-processing
   step (20). For example, in the case of an alcohol, post-processing may involve distillation
   and, in some cases, denaturation.
            As described herein, many variations of process 10 can be utilized.
                                                    10

    WO 2012/112529                                                                 PCT/US2012/025023
             FIG. 2 shows one particular system that utilizes the steps described above for
   treating a feedstock and then using the treated feedstock in a fermentation process to
   produce an alcohol. System 100 includes a module 102 in which a feedstock is initially
   mechanically treated (step 12, above), a module 104 in which the mechanically treated
 5 feedstock is structurally modified (step 14, above), e.g., by irradiation, and a module 106 in
   which the structurally modified feedstock is subjected to further mechanical treatment (step
   16, above). As discussed above, the module 106 may be of the same type as the module
   102, or a different type. In some implementations the structurally modified feedstock can be
   returned to module 102 for further mechanical treatment rather than being further
10 mechanically treated in a separate module 106.
             As described herein, many variations of system 100 can be utilized.
             After these treatments, which may be repeated as many times as required to obtain
   desired feedstock properties, the treated feedstock is delivered to a fermentation system 108.
   Mixing may be performed during fermentation, in which case the mixing is preferably
15 relatively gentle (low shear) so as to minimize damage to shear sensitive ingredients such as
   enzymes and other microorganisms. In some embodiments, jet mixing is used, as described
   in U.S. Serial No. 12/782,694, 13/293,977 and 13/293,985, the complete disclosures of
   which are incorporated herein by reference.
             Referring again to FIG. 2, fermentation produces a crude ethanol mixture, which
20 flows into a holding tank 110. Water or other solvent, and other non-ethanol components,
   are stripped from the crude ethanol mixture using a stripping column 112, and the ethanol is
   then distilled using a distillation unit 114, e.g., a rectifier. Distillation may be by vacuum
   distillation. Finally, the ethanol can be dried using a molecular sieve 116 and/or denatured,
   if necessary, and output to a desired shipping method.
25           In some cases, the systems described herein, or components thereof, may be
   portable, so that the system can be transported (e.g., by rail, truck, or marine vessel) from
   one location to another. The method steps described herein can be performed at one or
   more locations, and in some cases one or more of the steps can be performed in transit.
   Such mobile processing is described in U.S. Serial No. 12/374,549 and International
30 Application No. WO 2008/011598, the full disclosures of which are incorporated herein
   by reference.
                                                     11

    WO 2012/112529                                                           PCT/US2012/025023
           Any or all of the method steps described herein can be performed at ambient
   temperature. If desired, cooling and/or heating may be employed during certain steps.
   For example, the feedstock may be cooled during mechanical treatment to increase its
   brittleness. In some embodiments, cooling is employed before, during or after the initial
 5 mechanical treatment and/or the subsequent mechanical treatment. Cooling may be
   performed as described in U.S. Serial No. 12/502,629, now U.S. Patent No. 7,900,857 the
   full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Moreover, the temperature
   in the fermentation system 108 may be controlled to enhance saccharification and/or
   fermentation.
10         The individual steps of the methods described above, as well as the materials used,
   will now be described in further detail.
   PHYSICAL TREATMENT
           Physical treatment processes can include one or more of any of those described
   herein, such as mechanical treatment, chemical treatment, irradiation, sonication,
15 oxidation, pyrolysis or steam explosion. Treatment methods can be used in combinations
   of two, three, four, or even all of these technologies (in any order). When more than one
   treatment method is used, the methods can be applied at the same time or at different
   times. Other processes that change a molecular structure of a feedstock may also be
   used, alone or in combination with the processes disclosed herein.
20
   Mechanical Treatments
           In some cases, methods can include mechanically treating the feedstock.
   Mechanical treatments include, for example, cutting, milling, pressing, grinding, shearing
   and chopping. Milling may include, for example, ball milling, hammer milling,
25 rotor/stator dry or wet milling, freezer milling, blade milling, knife milling, disk milling,
   roller milling or other types of milling. Other mechanical treatments include, e.g., stone
   grinding, cracking, mechanical ripping or tearing, pin grinding or air attrition milling.
           Mechanical treatment can be advantageous for "opening up," "stressing,"
   breaking and shattering cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials in the feedstock, making
30 the cellulose of the materials more susceptible to chain scission and/or reduction of
                                                  12

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
   crystallinity. The open materials can also be more susceptible to oxidation when
   irradiated.
            In some cases, the mechanical treatment may include an initial preparation of the
   feedstock as received, e.g., size reduction of materials, such as by cutting, grinding,
 5 shearing, pulverizing or chopping. For example, in some cases, loose feedstock (e.g.,
   recycled paper, starchy materials, or switchgrass) is prepared by shearing or shredding.
            Alternatively, or in addition, the feedstock material can first be physically treated
   by one or more of the other physical treatment methods, e.g., chemical treatment,
   radiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis or steam explosion, and then mechanically
10 treated. This sequence can be advantageous since materials treated by one or more of the
   other treatments, e.g., irradiation or pyrolysis, tend to be more brittle and, therefore, it
   may be easier to further change the molecular structure of the material by mechanical
   treatment.
            In some embodiments, the feedstock is in the form of a fibrous material, and
15 mechanical treatment includes shearing to expose fibers of the fibrous material. Shearing
   can be performed, for example, using a rotary knife cutter. Other methods of
   mechanically treating the feedstock include, for example, milling or grinding. Milling
   may be performed using, for example, a hammer mill, ball mill, colloid mill, conical or
   cone mill, disk mill, edge mill, Wiley mill or grist mill. Grinding may be performed
20 using, for example, a stone grinder, pin grinder, coffee grinder, or burr grinder. Grinding
   may be provided, for example, by a reciprocating pin or other element, as is the case in a
   pin mill. Other mechanical treatment methods include mechanical ripping or tearing,
   other methods that apply pressure to the material, and air attrition milling. Suitable
   mechanical treatments further include any other technique that changes the molecular
25 structure of the feedstock.
            If desired, the mechanically treated material can be passed through a screen, e.g.,
   having an average opening size of 1.59 mm or less (1/16 inch, 0.0625 inch). In some
   embodiments, shearing, or other mechanical treatment, and screening are performed
   concurrently. For example, a rotary knife cutter can be used to concurrently shear and
30 screen the feedstock. The feedstock is sheared between stationary blades and rotating
   blades to provide a sheared material that passes through a screen, and is captured in a bin.
                                                   13

    WO 2012/112529                                                               PCT/US2012/025023
            The feedstock can be mechanically treated in a dry state (e.g., having little or no
   free water on its surface), a hydrated state (e.g., having up to ten percent by weight
   absorbed water), or in a wet state, e.g., having between about 10 percent and about 75
   percent by weight water. The fiber source can even be mechanically treated while
 5 partially or fully submerged under a liquid, such as water, ethanol or isopropanol.
            The feedstock can also be mechanically treated under a gas (such as a stream or
   atmosphere of gas other than air), e.g., oxygen or nitrogen, or steam.
            If desired, lignin can be removed from any of the fibrous materials that include
   lignin. Also, to aid in the breakdown of the materials that include cellulose, the material
10 can be treated prior to or during mechanical treatment or irradiation with heat, a chemical
   (e.g., mineral acid, base or a strong oxidizer such as sodium hypochlorite) and/or an
   enzyme. For example, grinding can be performed in the presence of an acid.
            Mechanical treatment systems can be configured to produce streams with specific
   morphology characteristics such as, for example, surface area, porosity, bulk density,
15 and, in the case of fibrous feedstocks, fiber characteristics such as length-to-width ratio.
            In some embodiments, a BET surface area of the mechanically treated material is
   greater than 0.1 m 2/g, e.g., greater than 0.25 m 2/g, greater than 0.5 m 2/g, greater than 1.0
   m 2/g, greater than 1.5 m 2/g, greater than 1.75 m 2/g, greater than 5.0 m 2/g, greater than 10
   m 2/g, greater than 25 m 2/g, greater than 35 m 2/g, greater than 50m 2/g, greater than 60
20 m 2/g, greater than 75 m 2/g, greater than 100 m 2/g, greater than 150 m 2/g, greater than 200
   m2/g, or even greater than 250 m 2/g.
            A porosity of the mechanically treated material can be, e.g., greater than 20
   percent, greater than 25 percent, greater than 35 percent, greater than 50 percent, greater
   than 60 percent, greater than 70 percent, greater than 80 percent, greater than 85 percent,
25 greater than 90 percent, greater than 92 percent, greater than 94 percent, greater than 95
   percent, greater than 97.5 percent, greater than 99 percent, or even greater than 99.5
   percent.
            In some embodiments, after mechanical treatment the material has a bulk density
   of less than 0.75 g/cm 3 , e.g., less than about 0.7, 0.65, 0.60, 0.50, 0.35, 0.25, 0.20, 0.15,
30 0.10, 0.05, or less, e.g., less than 0.025 g/cm 3 . Bulk density is determined using ASTM
   D1895B. Briefly, the method involves filling a measuring cylinder of known volume
                                                    14

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
   with a sample and obtaining a weight of the sample. The bulk density is calculated by
   dividing the weight of the sample in grams by the known volume of the cylinder in cubic
   centimeters.
           If the feedstock is a fibrous material the fibers of the mechanically treated
 5 material can have a relatively large average length-to-diameter ratio (e.g., greater than
   20-to-1), even if they have been sheared more than once. In addition, the fibers of the
   fibrous materials described herein may have a relatively narrow length and/or length-to
   diameter ratio distribution.
           As used herein, average fiber widths (e.g., diameters) are those determined
10 optically by randomly selecting approximately 5,000 fibers. Average fiber lengths are
   corrected length-weighted lengths. BET (Brunauer, Emmet and Teller) surface areas are
   multi-point surface areas, and porosities are those determined by mercury porosimetry.
           If the feedstock is a fibrous material the average length-to-diameter ratio of fibers
   of the mechanically treated material can be, e.g., greater than 8/1, e.g., greater than 10/1,
15 greater than 15/1, greater than 20/1, greater than 25/1, or greater than 50/1. An average
   fiber length of the mechanically treated material can be, e.g., between about 0.5 mm and
   2.5 mm, e.g., between about 0.75 mm and 1.0 mm, and an average width (e.g., diameter)
   of the second fibrous material 14 can be, e.g., between about 5 pim and 50 pim, e.g.,
   between about 10 pim and 30 pim.
20         In some embodiments, if the feedstock is a fibrous material the standard deviation
   of the fiber length of the mechanically treated material can be less than 60 percent of an
   average fiber length of the mechanically treated material, e.g., less than 50 percent of the
   average length, less than 40 percent of the average length, less than 25 percent of the
   average length, less than 10 percent of the average length, less than 5 percent of the
25 average length, or even less than 1 percent of the average length.
           In some situations, it can be desirable to prepare a low bulk density material,
   densify the material (e.g., to make it easier and less costly to transport to another site),
   and then revert the material to a lower bulk density state. Densified materials can be
   processed by any of the methods described herein, or any material processed by any of
30 the methods described herein can be subsequently densified, e.g., as disclosed in U.S.
                                                  15

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
   Serial No. 12/429, 045 now U.S. Patent No. 7,932,065 and WO 2008/073186, the full
   disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
   Radiation Treatment
           One or more radiation processing sequences can be used to process the feedstock,
 5 and to provide a structurally modified material which functions as input to further
   processing steps and/or sequences. Irradiation can, for example, reduce the molecular
   weight and/or crystallinity of feedstock. Radiation can also sterilize the materials, or any
   media needed to bioprocess the material.
           In some embodiments, energy deposited in a material that releases an electron
10 from its atomic orbital is used to irradiate the materials. The radiation may be provided
   by (1) heavy charged particles, such as alpha particles or protons, (2) electrons, produced,
   for example, in beta decay or electron beam accelerators, or (3) electromagnetic
   radiation, for example, gamma rays, x rays, or ultraviolet rays. In one approach, radiation
   produced by radioactive substances can be used to irradiate the feedstock. In another
15 approach, electromagnetic radiation (e.g., produced using electron beam emitters) can be
   used to irradiate the feedstock. In some embodiments, any combination in any order or
   concurrently of (1) through (3) may be utilized. The doses applied depend on the desired
   effect and the particular feedstock.
           In some instances when chain scission is desirable and/or polymer chain
20 functionalization is desirable, particles heavier than electrons, such as protons, helium
   nuclei, argon ions, silicon ions, neon ions, carbon ions, phosphorus ions, oxygen ions or
   nitrogen ions can be utilized. When ring-opening chain scission is desired, positively
   charged particles can be utilized for their Lewis acid properties for enhanced ring
   opening chain scission. For example, when maximum oxidation is desired, oxygen ions
25 can be utilized, and when maximum nitration is desired, nitrogen ions can be utilized.
   The use of heavy particles and positively charged particles is described in U.S. Serial No.
   12/417,699, now U.S. Patent No. 7,931,784, the full disclosure of which is incorporated
   herein by reference.
           In one method, a first material that is or includes cellulose having a first number
30 average molecular weight    (MN1)  is irradiated, e.g., by treatment with ionizing radiation
                                                   16

    WO 2012/112529                                                               PCT/US2012/025023
   (e.g., in the form of gamma radiation, X-ray radiation, 100 nm to 280 nm ultraviolet (UV)
   light, a beam of electrons or other charged particles) to provide a second material that
   includes cellulose having a second number average molecular weight           (MN2) lower than
   the first number average molecular weight. The second material (or the first and second
 5 material) can be combined with a microorganism (with or without enzyme treatment) that
   can utilize the second and/or first material or its constituent sugars or lignin to produce an
   intermediate or product, such as those described herein.
            Since the second material includes cellulose having a reduced molecular weight
   relative to the first material, and in some instances, a reduced crystallinity as well, the
10 second material is generally more dispersible, swellable and/or soluble, e.g., in a solution
   containing a microorganism and/or an enzyme. These properties make the second
   material easier to process and more susceptible to chemical, enzymatic and/or biological
   attack relative to the first material, which can greatly improve the production rate and/or
   production level of a desired product, e.g., ethanol.
15          In some embodiments, the second number average molecular weight            (MN2) is
   lower than the first number average molecular weight       (MN1)  by more than about 10
   percent, e.g., more than about 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 50 percent, 60 percent, or even more
   than about 75 percent.
            In some instances, the second material includes cellulose that has a crystallinity
20 (C2 ) that is lower than the crystallinity (C1) of the cellulose of the first material. For
   example, (C2 ) can be lower than (C1) by more than about 10 percent, e.g., more than
   about 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, or even more than about 50 percent.
            In some embodiments, the starting crystallinity index (prior to irradiation) is from
   about 40 to about 87.5 percent, e.g., from about 50 to about 75 percent or from about 60
25 to about 70 percent, and the crystallinity index after irradiation is from about 10 to about
   50 percent, e.g., from about 15 to about 45 percent or from about 20 to about 40 percent.
   However, in some embodiments, e.g., after extensive irradiation, it is possible to have a
   crystallinity index of lower than 5 percent. In some embodiments, the material after
   irradiation is substantially amorphous.
30          In some embodiments, the starting number average molecular weight (prior to
   irradiation) is from about 200,000 to about 3,200,000, e.g., from about 250,000 to about
                                                   17

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
   1,000,000 or from about 250,000 to about 700,000, and the number average molecular
   weight after irradiation is from about 50,000 to about 200,000, e.g., from about 60,000 to
   about 150,000 or from about 70,000 to about 125,000. However, in some embodiments,
   e.g., after extensive irradiation, it is possible to have a number average molecular weight
 5 of less than about 10,000 or even less than about 5,000.
            In some embodiments, the second material can have a level of oxidation (02) that
   is higher than the level of oxidation (01) of the first material. A higher level of oxidation
   of the material can aid in its dispersability, swellability and/or solubility, further
   enhancing the material's susceptibility to chemical, enzymatic or biological attack. In
10 some embodiments, to increase the level of the oxidation of the second material relative
   to the first material, the irradiation is performed under an oxidizing environment, e.g.,
   under a blanket of air or oxygen, producing a second material that is more oxidized than
   the first material. For example, the second material can have more hydroxyl groups,
   aldehyde groups, ketone groups, ester groups or carboxylic acid groups, which can
15 increase its hydrophilicity.
            Ionizing Radiation
            Each form of radiation ionizes the carbon-containing material via particular
   interactions, as determined by the energy of the radiation. Heavy charged particles
   primarily ionize matter via Coulomb scattering; furthermore, these interactions produce
20 energetic electrons that may further ionize matter. Alpha particles are identical to the
   nucleus of a helium atom and are produced by the alpha decay of various radioactive
   nuclei, such as isotopes of bismuth, polonium, astatine, radon, francium, radium, several
   actinides, such as actinium, thorium, uranium, neptunium, curium, californium,
   americium, and plutonium.
25          When particles are utilized, they can be neutral (uncharged), positively charged or
   negatively charged. When charged, the charged particles can bear a single positive or
   negative charge, or multiple charges, e.g., one, two, three or even four or more charges.
   In instances in which chain scission is desired, positively charged particles may be
   desirable, in part due to their acidic nature. When particles are utilized, the particles can
30 have the mass of a resting electron, or greater, e.g., 500, 1000, 1500, 2000, 10,000 or
                                                    18

    WO 2012/112529                                                            PCT/US2012/025023
   even 100,000 times the mass of a resting electron. For example, the particles can have a
   mass of from about 1 atomic unit to about 150 atomic units, e.g., from about 1 atomic
   unit to about 50 atomic units, or from about I to about 25, e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 12 or 15
   amu. Accelerators used to accelerate the particles can be electrostatic DC,
 5 electrodynamic DC, RF linear, magnetic induction linear or continuous wave. For
   example, cyclotron type accelerators are available from IBA, Belgium, such as the
   Rhodotron@ system, while DC type accelerators are available from RDI, now IBA
   Industrial, such as the Dynamitron@. Ions and ion accelerators are discussed in
   Introductory Nuclear Physics, Kenneth S. Krane, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (1988), Krsto
10 Prelec, FIZIKA B 6 (1997) 4, 177-206, Chu, William T., "Overview of Light-Ion Beam
   Therapy" Columbus-Ohio, ICRU-IAEA Meeting, 18-20 March 2006, Iwata, Y. et al.,
   "Alternating-Phase-Focused IH-DTL for Heavy-Ion Medical Accelerators" Proceedings
   of EPAC 2006, Edinburgh, Scotland and Leaner, C.M. et al., "Status of the
   Superconducting ECR Ion Source Venus" Proceedings of EPAC 2000, Vienna, Austria.
15         Gamma radiation has the advantage of a significant penetration depth into a
   variety of materials. Sources of gamma rays include radioactive nuclei, such as isotopes
   of cobalt, calcium, technicium, chromium, gallium, indium, iodine, iron, krypton,
   samarium, selenium, sodium, thalium, and xenon.
           Sources of x rays include electron beam collision with metal targets, such as
20 tungsten or molybdenum or alloys, or compact light sources, such as those produced
   commercially by Lyncean.
           Sources for ultraviolet radiation include deuterium or cadmium lamps.
           Sources for infrared radiation include sapphire, zinc, or selenide window ceramic
   lamps.
25         Sources for microwaves include klystrons, Slevin type RF sources, or atom beam
   sources that employ hydrogen, oxygen, or nitrogen gases.
           In some embodiments, a beam of electrons is used as the radiation source. A
   beam of electrons has the advantages of high dose rates (e.g., 1, 5, or even 10 Mrad per
   second), high throughput, less containment, and less confinement equipment. Electrons
30 can also be more efficient at causing chain scission. In addition, electrons having
                                                 19

    WO 2012/112529                                                               PCT/US2012/025023
   energies of 4-10 MeV can have a penetration depth of 5 to 30 mm or more, such as 40
   mm.
            Electron beams can be generated, e.g., by electrostatic generators, cascade
   generators, transformer generators, low energy accelerators with a scanning system, low
 5 energy accelerators with a linear cathode, linear accelerators, and pulsed accelerators.
   Electrons as an ionizing radiation source can be useful, e.g., for relatively thin sections of
   material, e.g., less than 0.5 inch, e.g., less than 0.4 inch, 0.3 inch, 0.2 inch, or less than
   0.1 inch. In some embodiments, the energy of each electron of the electron beam is from
   about 0.3 MeV to about 2.0 MeV (million electron volts), e.g., from about 0.5 MeV to
10 about 1.5 MeV, or from about 0.7 MeV to about 1.25 MeV.
            Electron beam irradiation devices may be procured commercially from Ion Beam
   Applications, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium or the Titan Corporation, San Diego, CA.
   Typical electron energies can be 1 MeV, 2 MeV, 4.5 MeV, 7.5 MeV, or 10 MeV.
   Typical electron beam irradiation device power can be 1 kW, 5 kW, 10 kW, 20 kW, 50
15 kW, 100 kW, 250 kW, or 500 kW. The level of depolymerization of the feedstock
   depends on the electron energy used and the dose applied, while exposure time depends
   on the power and dose. Typical doses may take values of 1 kGy, 5 kGy, 10 kGy, 20 kGy,
   50 kGy, 100 kGy, or 200 kGy. In a some embodiments energies between 0.25-10 MeV
   (e.g., 0.5-0.8 MeV, 0.5-5 MeV, 0.8-4 MeV, 0.8-3 MeV, 0.8-2 MeV or 0.8-1.5 MeV) can
20 be used. In some embodiments doses between 1-100 Mrad (e.g., 2-80 Mrad, 5-50 Mrad,
   5-40 Mrad, 5-30 Mrad or 5-20 Mrad) can be used. In some preferred embodiments, an
   energy between 0.8-3 MeV (e.g., 0.8-2 MeV or 0.8-1.5 MeV) combined with doses
   between 5-50 Mrad (e.g., 5-40 Mrad, 5-30 Mrad or 5-20 Mrad) can be used.
            Ion Particle Beams
25          Particles heavier than electrons can be utilized to irradiate materials, such as
   carbohydrates or materials that include carbohydrates, e.g., cellulosic materials,
   lignocellulosic materials, starchy materials, or mixtures of any of these and others
   described herein. For example, protons, helium nuclei, argon ions, silicon ions, neon ions
   carbon ions, phosphorus ions, oxygen ions or nitrogen ions can be utilized. In some
30 embodiments, particles heavier than electrons can induce higher amounts of chain
                                                    20

    WO 2012/112529                                                            PCT/US2012/025023
   scission (relative to lighter particles). In some instances, positively charged particles can
   induce higher amounts of chain scission than negatively charged particles due to their
   acidity.
             Heavier particle beams can be generated, e.g., using linear accelerators or
 5 cyclotrons. In some embodiments, the energy of each particle of the beam is from about
   1.0 MeV/atomic unit (MeV/amu) to about 6,000 MeV/atomic unit, e.g., from about 3
   MeV/ atomic unit to about 4,800 MeV/atomic unit, or from about 10 MeV/atomic unit to
   about 1,000 MeV/atomic unit.
             In certain embodiments, ion beams used to irradiate carbon-containing materials,
10 e.g., materials obtained from plants, can include more than one type of ion. For example,
   ion beams can include mixtures of two or more (e.g., three, four or more) different types
   of ions. Exemplary mixtures can include carbon ions and protons, carbon ions and
   oxygen ions, nitrogen ions and protons, and iron ions and protons. More generally,
   mixtures of any of the ions discussed above (or any other ions) can be used to form
15 irradiating ion beams. In particular, mixtures of relatively light and relatively heavier
   ions can be used in a single ion beam.
             In some embodiments, ion beams for irradiating materials include positively
   charged ions. The positively charged ions can include, for example, positively charged
   hydrogen ions (e.g., protons), noble gas ions (e.g., helium, neon, argon), carbon ions,
20 nitrogen ions, oxygen ions, silicon atoms, phosphorus ions, and metal ions such as
   sodium ions, calcium ions, and/or iron ions. Without wishing to be bound by any theory,
   it is believed that such positively-charged ions behave chemically as Lewis acid moieties
   when exposed to materials, initiating and sustaining cationic ring-opening chain scission
   reactions in an oxidative environment.
25           In certain embodiments, ion beams for irradiating materials include negatively
   charged ions. Negatively charged ions can include, for example, negatively charged
   hydrogen ions (e.g., hydride ions), and negatively charged ions of various relatively
   electronegative nuclei (e.g., oxygen ions, nitrogen ions, carbon ions, silicon ions, and
   phosphorus ions). Without wishing to be bound by any theory, it is believed that such
30 negatively-charged ions behave chemically as Lewis base moieties when exposed to
                                                  21

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
   materials, causing anionic ring-opening chain scission reactions in a reducing
   environment.
            In some embodiments, beams for irradiating materials can include neutral atoms.
   For example, any one or more of hydrogen atoms, helium atoms, carbon atoms, nitrogen
 5 atoms, oxygen atoms, neon atoms, silicon atoms, phosphorus atoms, argon atoms, and
   iron atoms can be included in beams that are used for irradiation. In general, mixtures of
   any two or more of the above types of atoms (e.g., three or more, four or more, or even
   more) can be present in the beams.
            In certain embodiments, ion beams used to irradiate materials include singly
10 charged ions such as one or more of H, H-, He+, New, Ar, C, C-, O, 0-, N, N, Si+, Si-,
   P , P-, Na+, Ca+, and Fe+. In some embodiments, ion beams can include multiply-charged
   ions such as one or more of C2 +,C3", C4 +, N3 , N 5+, N 3-, 02+ 02-, 022-,i i2+ ,4+      , and
                                                                                           2-S
   Si4-. In general, the ion beams can also include more complex polynuclear ions that bear
   multiple positive or negative charges. In certain embodiments, by virtue of the structure
15 of the polynuclear ion, the positive or negative charges can be effectively distributed over
   substantially the entire structure of the ions. In some embodiments, the positive or
   negative charges can be somewhat localized over portions of the structure of the ions.
            Electromagnetic Radiation
            In embodiments in which the irradiating is performed with electromagnetic
20 radiation, the electromagnetic radiation can have, e.g., energy per photon (in electron
   volts) of greater than 102 eV, e.g., greater than 103, 104, 105, 106, or even greater than 107
   eV. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has energy per photon of
   between 104 and 10 7 , e.g., between 105 and 106 eV. The electromagnetic radiation can
   have a frequency of, e.g., greater than 1016 hz, greater than 1017 hz, 1011, 1019, 102, or
25 even greater than 1021 hz. Typical doses may take values of greater than 1 Mrad (e.g.,
   greater than 1 Mrad, greater than 2 Mrad). In some embodiments, the electromagnetic
   radiation has a frequency of between 1018 and 1022 hz, e.g., between 1019 to 1021 hz. In
   some embodiment doses between 1-100 Mrad (e.g., 2-80 Mrad, 5-50 Mrad, 5-40 Mrad,
   5-30 Mrad or 5-20 Mrad) can be used.
30
                                                  22

    WO 2012/112529                                                            PCT/US2012/025023
            Ouenching and Controlled Functionalization
            After treatment with ionizing radiation, any of the materials or mixtures described
   herein may become ionized; that is, the treated material may include radicals at levels
   that are detectable with an electron spin resonance spectrometer. If an ionized feedstock
 5 remains in the atmosphere, it will be oxidized, such as to an extent that carboxylic acid
   groups are generated by reacting with the atmospheric oxygen. In some instances with
   some materials, such oxidation is desired because it can aid in the further breakdown in
   molecular weight of the carbohydrate-containing biomass, and the oxidation groups, e.g.,
   carboxylic acid groups can be helpful for solubility and microorganism utilization in
10 some instances. However, since the radicals can "live" for some time after irradiation,
   e.g., longer than 1 day, 5 days, 30 days, 3 months, 6 months or even longer than 1 year,
   material properties can continue to change over time, which in some instances, can be
   undesirable. Thus, it may be desirable to quench the ionized material.
            After ionization, any ionized material can be quenched to reduce the level of
15 radicals in the ionized material, e.g., such that the radicals are no longer detectable with
   the electron spin resonance spectrometer. For example, the radicals can be quenched by
   the application of a sufficient pressure to the material and/or by utilizing a fluid in contact
   with the ionized material, such as a gas or liquid, that reacts with (quenches) the radicals.
   Using a gas or liquid to at least aid in the quenching of the radicals can be used to
20 functionalize the ionized material with a desired amount and kind of functional groups,
   such as carboxylic acid groups, enol groups, aldehyde groups, nitro groups, nitrile
   groups, amino groups, alkyl amino groups, alkyl groups, chloroalkyl groups or
   chlorofluoroalkyl groups.
            In some instances, such quenching can improve the stability of some of the
25 ionized materials. For example, quenching can improve the resistance of the material to
   oxidation. Functionalization by quenching can also improve the solubility of any
   material described herein, can improve its thermal stability, and can improve material
   utilization by various microorganisms. For example, the functional groups imparted to
   the material by the quenching can act as receptor sites for attachment by microorganisms,
30 e.g., to enhance cellulose hydrolysis by various microorganisms.
                                                  23

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
            In some embodiments, quenching includes an application of pressure to the
   ionized material, such as by mechanically deforming the material, e.g., directly
   mechanically compressing the material in one, two, or three dimensions, or applying
   pressure to a fluid in which the material is immersed, e.g., isostatic pressing. In such
 5 instances, the deformation of the material itself brings radicals, which are often trapped in
   crystalline domains, in close enough proximity so that the radicals can recombine, or
   react with another group. In some instances, the pressure is applied together with the
   application of heat, such as a sufficient quantity of heat to elevate the temperature of the
   material to above a melting point or softening point of a component of the material, such
10 as lignin, cellulose or hemicellulose. Heat can improve molecular mobility in the
   material, which can aid in the quenching of the radicals. When pressure is utilized to
   quench, the pressure can be greater than about 1000 psi, such as greater than about 1250
   psi, 1450 psi, 3625 psi, 5075 psi, 7250 psi, 10000 psi or even greater than 15000 psi.
            In some embodiments, quenching includes contacting the ionized material with a
15 fluid, such as a liquid or gas, e.g., a gas capable of reacting with the radicals, such as
   acetylene or a mixture of acetylene in nitrogen, ethylene, chlorinated ethylenes or
   chlorofluoroethylenes, propylene or mixtures of these gases. In other particular
   embodiments, quenching includes contacting the ionized material with a liquid, e.g., a
   liquid soluble in, or at least capable of penetrating into the material and reacting with the
20 radicals, such as a diene, such as 1,5-cyclooctadiene. In some specific embodiments,
   quenching includes contacting the material with an antioxidant, such as Vitamin E. If
   desired, the feedstock can include an antioxidant dispersed therein, and the quenching can
   come from contacting the antioxidant dispersed in the feedstock with the radicals.
            Functionalization can be enhanced by utilizing heavy charged ions, such as any of
25 the heavier ions described herein. For example, if it is desired to enhance oxidation,
   charged oxygen ions can be utilized for the irradiation. If nitrogen functional groups are
   desired, nitrogen ions or anions that include nitrogen can be utilized. Likewise, if sulfur
   or phosphorus groups are desired, sulfur or phosphorus ions can be used in the
   irradiation.
                                                   24

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
            Doses
            In some instances, the irradiation is performed at a dosage rate of greater than
   about 0.25 Mrad per second, e.g., greater than about 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, or even
   greater than about 2.5 Mrad per second. In some embodiments, the irradiating is
 5 performed at a dose rate of between 5.0 and 1500.0 kilorads/hour, e.g., between 10.0 and
   750.0 kilorads/hour or between 50.0 and 350.0 kilorads/hour. In some embodiments,
   irradiation is performed at a dose rate of greater than about 0.25 Mrad per second, e.g.,
   greater than about 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 5, 7, 10, 12, 15, or even greater than about 20 Mrad
   per second, e.g., about 0.25 to 2 Mrad per second.
10          In some embodiments, the irradiating (with any radiation source or a combination
   of sources) is performed until the material receives a dose of 0.25 Mrad, e.g., at least 1.0,
   2.5, 5.0, 8.0, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 50, or even at least 100 Mrad. In some
   embodiments, the irradiating is performed until the material receives a dose of between
   1.0 Mrad and 6.0 Mrad, e.g., between 1.5 Mrad and 4.0 Mrad, 2 Mrad and 10 Mrad, 5
15 Mrad and 20 Mrad, 10 Mrad and 30 Mrad, 10 Mrad and 40 Mrad, or 20 Mrad and 50
   Mrad. In some embodiments, the irradiating is performed until the material receives a
   dose of from about 0.1 Mrad to about 500 Mrad, from about 0.5 Mrad to about 200 Mrad,
   from about 1 Mrad to about 100 Mrad, or from about 5 Mrad to about 60 Mrad. In some
   embodiments, a relatively low dose of radiation is applied, e.g., less than 60 Mrad.
20 Sonication
            Sonication can reduce the molecular weight and/or crystallinity of materials, such
   as one or more of any of the materials described herein, e.g., one or more carbohydrate
   sources, such as cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials, or starchy materials. Sonication
   can also be used to sterilize the materials. As discussed above with regard to radiation,
25 the process parameters used for sonication can be varied depending on various factors,
   e.g., depending on the lignin content of the feedstock. For example, feedstocks with
   higher lignin levels generally require a higher residence time and/or energy level,
   resulting in a higher total energy delivered to the feedstock.
            In one method, a first material that includes cellulose having a first number
30 average molecular weight     (MN1)  is dispersed in a medium, such as water, and sonicated
                                                   25

    WO 2012/112529                                                               PCT/US2012/025023
   and/or otherwise cavitated, to provide a second material that includes cellulose having a
   second number average molecular weight        (MN2)   lower than the first number average
   molecular weight. The second material (or the first and second material in certain
   embodiments) can be combined with a microorganism (with or without enzyme
 5 treatment) that can utilize the second and/or first material to produce an intermediate or
   product.
            Since the second material includes cellulose having a reduced molecular weight
   relative to the first material, and in some instances, a reduced crystallinity as well, the
   second material is generally more dispersible, swellable, and/or soluble, e.g., in a solution
10 containing a microorganism.
            In some embodiments, the second number average molecular weight (MN2) is
   lower than the first number average molecular weight (MN1) by more than about 10
   percent, e.g., more than about 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 50 percent, 60 percent, or even more
   than about 75 percent.
15          In some instances, the second material includes cellulose that has a crystallinity
   (C2 ) that is lower than the crystallinity (C1) of the cellulose of the first material. For
   example, (C2 ) can be lower than (C1) by more than about 10 percent, e.g., more than
   about 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, or even more than about 50 percent.
            In some embodiments, the starting crystallinity index (prior to sonication) is from
20 about 40 to about 87.5 percent, e.g., from about 50 to about 75 percent or from about 60
   to about 70 percent, and the crystallinity index after sonication is from about 10 to about
   50 percent, e.g., from about 15 to about 45 percent or from about 20 to about 40 percent.
   However, in certain embodiments, e.g., after extensive sonication, it is possible to have a
   crystallinity index of lower than 5 percent. In some embodiments, the material after
25 sonication is substantially amorphous.
            In some embodiments, the starting number average molecular weight (prior to
   sonication) is from about 200,000 to about 3,200,000, e.g., from about 250,000 to about
   1,000,000 or from about 250,000 to about 700,000, and the number average molecular
   weight after sonication is from about 50,000 to about 200,000, e.g., from about 60,000 to
30 about 150,000 or from about 70,000 to about 125,000. However, in some embodiments,
                                                   26

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
   e.g., after extensive sonication, it is possible to have a number average molecular weight
   of less than about 10,000 or even less than about 5,000.
            In some embodiments, the second material can have a level of oxidation (02) that
   is higher than the level of oxidation (01) of the first material. A higher level of oxidation
 5 of the material can aid in its dispersability, swellability and/or solubility, further
   enhancing the material's susceptibility to chemical, enzymatic or microbial attack. In
   some embodiments, to increase the level of the oxidation of the second material relative
   to the first material, the sonication is performed in an oxidizing medium, producing a
   second material that is more oxidized than the first material. For example, the second
10 material can have more hydroxyl groups, aldehyde groups, ketone groups, ester groups or
   carboxylic acid groups, which can increase its hydrophilicity.
            In some embodiments, the sonication medium is an aqueous medium. If desired,
   the medium can include an oxidant, such as a peroxide (e.g., hydrogen peroxide), a
   dispersing agent and/or a buffer. Examples of dispersing agents include ionic dispersing
15 agents, e.g., sodium lauryl sulfate, and non-ionic dispersing agents, e.g., poly(ethylene
   glycol).
            In other embodiments, the sonication medium is non-aqueous. For example, the
   sonication can be performed in a hydrocarbon, e.g., toluene or heptane, an ether, e.g.,
   diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran, or even in a liquefied gas such as argon, xenon, or
20 nitrogen.
   Pyrolysis
            One or more pyrolysis processing sequences can be used to process carbon
   containing materials from a wide variety of different sources to extract useful substances
25 from the materials, and to provide partially degraded materials which function as input to
   further processing steps and/or sequences. Pyrolysis can also be used to sterilize the
   materials. Pyrolysis conditions can be varied depending on the characteristics of the
   feedstock and/or other factors. For example, feedstocks with higher lignin levels may
   require a higher temperature, longer residence time, and/or introduction of higher levels
30 of oxygen during pyrolysis.
                                                   27

    WO 2012/112529                                                                PCT/US2012/025023
             In one example, a first material that includes cellulose having a first number
   average molecular weight (MN1) is pyrolyzed, e.g., by heating the first material in a tube
   furnace (in the presence or absence of oxygen), to provide a second material that includes
   cellulose having a second number average molecular weight          (MN2)   lower than the first
 5 number average molecular weight.
             Since the second material includes cellulose having a reduced molecular weight
   relative to the first material, and in some instances, a reduced crystallinity as well, the
   second material is generally more dispersible, swellable and/or soluble, e.g., in a solution
   containing a microorganism.
10           In some embodiments, the second number average molecular weight (MN2) is
   lower than the first number average molecular weight (MN1) by more than about 10
   percent, e.g., more than about 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 50 percent, 60 percent, or even more
   than about 75 percent.
             In some instances, the second material includes cellulose that has a crystallinity
15 (C 2 ) that is lower than the crystallinity (C1) of the cellulose of the first material. For
   example, (C 2 ) can be lower than (C1) by more than about 10 percent, e.g., more than
   about 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, or even more than about 50 percent.
             In some embodiments, the starting crystallinity (prior to pyrolysis) is from about
   40 to about 87.5 percent, e.g., from about 50 to about 75 percent or from about 60 to
20 about 70 percent, and the crystallinity index after pyrolysis is from about 10 to about 50
   percent, e.g., from about 15 to about 45 percent or from about 20 to about 40 percent.
   However, in certain embodiments, e.g., after extensive pyrolysis, it is possible to have a
   crystallinity index of lower than 5 percent. In some embodiments, the material after
   pyrolysis is substantially amorphous.
25           In some embodiments, the starting number average molecular weight (prior to
   pyrolysis) is from about 200,000 to about 3,200,000, e.g., from about 250,000 to about
   1,000,000 or from about 250,000 to about 700,000, and the number average molecular
   weight after pyrolysis is from about 50,000 to about 200,000, e.g., from about 60,000 to
   about 150,000 or from about 70,000 to about 125,000. However, in some embodiments,
30 e.g., after extensive pyrolysis, it is possible to have a number average molecular weight
   of less than about 10,000 or even less than about 5,000.
                                                    28

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
           In some embodiments, the second material can have a level of oxidation (02) that
   is higher than the level of oxidation (01) of the first material. A higher level of oxidation
   of the material can aid in its dispersability, swellability and/or solubility, further
   enhancing the susceptibility of the material to chemical, enzymatic or microbial attack.
 5 In some embodiments, to increase the level of the oxidation of the second material
   relative to the first material, the pyrolysis is performed in an oxidizing environment,
   producing a second material that is more oxidized than the first material. For example,
   the second material can have more hydroxyl groups, aldehyde groups, ketone groups,
   ester groups or carboxylic acid groups, than the first material, thereby increasing the
10 hydrophilicity of the material.
           In some embodiments, the pyrolysis of the materials is continuous. In other
   embodiments, the material is pyrolyzed for a pre-determined time, and then allowed to
   cool for a second pre-determined time before pyrolyzing again.
15 Oxidation
           One or more oxidative processing sequences can be used to process carbon
   containing materials from a wide variety of different sources to extract useful substances
   from the materials, and to provide partially degraded and/or altered material which
   functions as input to further processing steps and/or sequences. The oxidation conditions
20 can be varied, e.g., depending on the lignin content of the feedstock, with a higher degree
   of oxidation generally being desired for higher lignin content feedstocks.
           In one method, a first material that includes cellulose having a first number
   average molecular weight (MN1) and having a first oxygen content (01) is oxidized, e.g.,
   by heating the first material in a stream of air or oxygen-enriched air, to provide a second
25 material that includes cellulose having a second number average molecular weight (MN2)
   and having a second oxygen content (02) higher than the first oxygen content (01).
           The second number average molecular weight of the second material is generally
   lower than the first number average molecular weight of the first material. For example,
   the molecular weight may be reduced to the same extent as discussed above with respect
30 to the other physical treatments. The crystallinity of the second material may also be
                                                    29

    WO 2012/112529                                                           PCT/US2012/025023
   reduced to the same extent as discussed above with respect to the other physical
   treatments.
           In some embodiments, the second oxygen content is at least about five percent
   higher than the first oxygen content, e.g., 7.5 percent higher, 10.0 percent higher, 12.5
 5 percent higher, 15.0 percent higher or 17.5 percent higher. In some preferred
   embodiments, the second oxygen content is at least about 20.0 percent higher than the
   first oxygen content of the first material. Oxygen content is measured by elemental
   analysis by pyrolyzing a sample in a furnace operating at 1300 0C or higher. A suitable
   elemental analyzer is the LECO CHNS-932 analyzer with a VTF-900 high temperature
10 pyrolysis furnace.
           Generally, oxidation of a material occurs in an oxidizing environment. For
   example, the oxidation can be effected or aided by pyrolysis in an oxidizing environment,
   such as in air or argon enriched in air. To aid in the oxidation, various chemical agents,
   such as oxidants, acids or bases can be added to the material prior to or during oxidation.
15 For example, a peroxide (e.g., benzoyl peroxide) can be added prior to oxidation.
           Some oxidative methods of reducing recalcitrance in a biomass feedstock employ
   Fenton-type chemistry. Such methods are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Serial No.
   12/639,289, the complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
           Exemplary oxidants include peroxides, such as hydrogen peroxide and benzoyl
20 peroxide, persulfates, such as ammonium persulfate, activated forms of oxygen, such as
   ozone, permanganates, such as potassium permanganate, perchlorates, such as sodium
   perchlorate, and hypochlorites, such as sodium hypochlorite (household bleach).
           In some situations, pH is maintained at or below about 5.5 during contact, such as
   between 1 and 5, between 2 and 5, between 2.5 and 5 or between about 3 and 5.
25 Oxidation conditions can also include a contact period of between 2 and 12 hours, e.g.,
   between 4 and 10 hours or between 5 and 8 hours. In some instances, temperature is
   maintained at or below 300 0C, e.g., at or below 250, 200, 150, 100 or 50 0C. In some
   instances, the temperature remains substantially ambient, e.g., at or about 20-25 0 C.
           In some embodiments, the one or more oxidants are applied as a gas, such as by
30 generating ozone in-situ by irradiating the material through air with a beam of particles,
   such as electrons.
                                                  30

    WO 2012/112529                                                           PCT/US2012/025023
            In some embodiments, the mixture further includes one or more hydroquinones,
   such as 2,5-dimethoxyhydroquinone (DMHQ) and/or one or more benzoquinones, such
   as 2,5-dimethoxy-1,4-benzoquinone (DMBQ), which can aid in electron transfer
   reactions.
 5          In some embodiments, the one or more oxidants are electrochemically-generated
   in-situ. For example, hydrogen peroxide and/or ozone can be electro-chemically
   produced within a contact or reaction vessel.
   Other Processes To Solubilize, Reduce Recalcitrance Or To Functionalize
            Any of the processes of this paragraph can be used alone without any of the
10 processes described herein, or in combination with any of the processes described herein
   (in any order): steam explosion, chemical treatment (e.g., acid treatment (including
   concentrated and dilute acid treatment with mineral acids, such as sulfuric acid,
   hydrochloric acid and organic acids, such as trifluoroacetic acid) and/or base treatment
   (e.g., treatment with lime or sodium hydroxide)), UV treatment, screw extrusion
15 treatment (see, e.g., U.S. Serial No. 13/099,15 1, solvent treatment (e.g., treatment with
   ionic liquids) and freeze milling (see, e.g., U.S. Serial No. 12/502,629 now U.S. Patent
   No. 7,900,857).
   PRODUCTION OF FUELS, ACIDS, ESTERS AND/OR OTHER PRODUCTS
20 AND USES
            A typical feedstock obtained at least in part from plants contains cellulose,
   hemicellulose, and lignin plus lesser amounts of proteins, extractables and minerals.
   After one or more of the processing steps discussed above have been performed on the
   feedstock, the complex carbohydrates contained in the cellulose and hemicellulose
25 fractions can in some cases be processed into fermentable sugars, optionally, along with
   acid or enzymatic hydrolysis. The sugars liberated can be converted into a variety of
   products, such as alcohols or organic acids. The product obtained depends upon the
   microorganism utilized and the conditions under which the bioprocessing occurs. In
   other embodiments, the treated feedstock can be subjected to thermochemical conversion,
30 or other processing.
                                                  31

    WO 2012/112529                                                           PCT/US2012/025023
           Examples of methods of further processing the treated feedstock are discussed in
   the following sections.
   Saccharification
           In order to convert the treated feedstock to a form that can be readily fermented,
 5 in some implementations the cellulose in the feedstock is first hydrolyzed to low
   molecular weight carbohydrates, such as sugars, by a saccharifying agent, e.g., an
   enzyme, a process referred to as saccharification. In some implementations, the
   saccharifying agent comprises an acid, e.g., a mineral acid. When an acid is used, co
   products may be generated that are toxic to microorganisms, in which case the process
10 can further include removing such co-products. Removal may be performed using an
   activated carbon, e.g., activated charcoal, or other suitable techniques.
           The treated feedstock can be hydrolyzed using an enzyme, e.g., by combining the
   material and the enzyme in a solvent, e.g., in an aqueous solution.
           Enzymes and biomass-destroying organisms that break down biomass, such as the
15 cellulose and/or the lignin portions of the feedstock, contain or manufacture various
   cellulolytic enzymes (cellulases), ligninases or various small molecule biomass
   destroying metabolites. These enzymes may be a complex of enzymes that act
   synergistically to degrade crystalline cellulose or the lignin portions of biomass.
   Examples of cellulolytic enzymes include: endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and
20 cellobiases (0-glucosidases). A cellulosic substrate is initially hydrolyzed by
   endoglucanases at random locations producing oligomeric intermediates. These
   intermediates are then substrates for exo-splitting glucanases such as cellobiohydrolase to
   produce cellobiose from the ends of the cellulose polymer. Cellobiose is a water-soluble
   1,4-linked dimer of glucose. Finally cellobiase cleaves cellobiose to yield glucose.
25 Fermentation
           Microorganisms can produce a number of useful intermediates and products by
   fermenting a low molecular weight sugar produced by saccharifying the treated
   feedstock. For example, fermentation or other bioprocesses can produce alcohols,
   organic acids, hydrocarbons, hydrogen, proteins or mixtures of any of these materials.
                                                 32

    WO 2012/112529                                                          PCT/US2012/025023
            Yeast and Zymomonas bacteria, for example, can be used for fermentation or
   conversion. Other microorganisms are discussed in the Materials section, below. The
   optimum pH for fermentations is about pH 4 to 7. The optimum pH for yeast is from
   about pH 4 to 5, while the optimum pH for Zymomonas is from about pH 5 to 6. Typical
 5 fermentation times are about 24 to 168 (e.g., 24-96 hrs) hours with temperatures in the
   range of 20 'C to 40 'C (e.g., 26 'C to 40 C), however thermophilic microorganisms
   prefer higher temperatures.
            In some embodiments e.g., when anaerobic organisms are used, at least a portion
   of the fermentation is conducted in the absence of oxygen e.g., under a blanket of an inert
10 gas such as N 2, Ar, He, CO 2 or mixtures thereof. Additionally, the mixture may have a
   constant purge of an inert gas flowing through the tank during part of or all of the
   fermentation. In some cases, anaerobic condition can be achieved or maintained by
   carbon dioxide production during the fermentation and no additional inert gas is needed.
            In some embodiments, all or a portion of the fermentation process can be
15 interrupted before the low molecular weight sugar is completely converted to a product
   (e.g. ethanol). The intermediate fermentation products include high concentrations of
   sugar and carbohydrates. The sugars and carbohydrates can be isolated as discussed
   below. These intermediate fermentation products can be used in preparation of food for
   human or animal consumption. Additionally or alternatively, the intermediate
20 fermentation products can be ground to a fine particle size in a stainless-steel laboratory
   mill to produce a flour-like substance.
            The fermentations include the methods and products that are disclosed in U.S.
   Provisional Application Serial No. 61/579,559, filed December, 2011 and U.S.
   Provisional Application Serial No. 61/579,576, filed December, 2011 incorporated
25 herein by reference.
            Mobile fermentors can be utilized, as described in U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application Serial No. 60/832,735, now Published International Application No. WO
   2008/011598. Similarly, the saccharification equipment can be mobile. Further,
   saccharification and/or fermentation may be performed in part or entirely during transit.
30
   Fuel Cells
                                                33

    WO 2012/112529                                                           PCT/US2012/025023
   Where the methods described herein produce a sugar solution or suspension, this solution
   or suspension can subsequently be used in a fuel cell. For example, fuel cells utilizing
   sugars derived from cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials are disclosed in U.S.
   Provisional Application Serial No. 61/579,568, filed December 22, 2011, the complete
 5 disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Thermochemical Conversion
           Thermochemical conversion can be performed on the treated feedstock to produce
   one or more desired intermediates and/or products. A thermochemical conversion
10 process includes changing molecular structures of carbon-containing material at elevated
   temperatures. Specific examples include gasification, pyrolysis, reformation, partial
   oxidation and mixtures of these (in any order).
           Gasification converts carbon-containing materials into a synthesis gas (syngas),
   which can include methanol, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and hydrogen. Many
15 microorganisms, such as acetogens or homoacetogens are capable of utilizing a syngas
   from the thermochemical conversion of biomass, to produce a product that includes an
   alcohol, a carboxylic acid, a salt of a carboxylic acid, a carboxylic acid ester or a mixture
   of any of these. Gasification of biomass (e.g., cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials), can
   be accomplished by a variety of techniques. For example, gasification can be
20 accomplished utilizing staged steam reformation with a fluidized-bed reactor in which the
   carbonaceous material is first pyrolyzed in the absence of oxygen and then the pyrolysis
   vapors are reformed to synthesis gas with steam providing added hydrogen and oxygen.
   In such a technique, process heat comes from burning char. Another technique utilizes a
   screw auger reactor in which moisture and oxygen are introduced at the pyrolysis stage
25 and the process heat is generated from burning some of the gas produced in the latter
   stage. Another technique utilizes entrained flow reformation in which both external
   steam and air are introduced in a single-stage gasification reactor. In partial oxidation
   gasification, pure oxygen is utilized with no steam.
                                                 34

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
   POST-PROCESSING
   Distillation
            After fermentation, the resulting fluids can be distilled using, for example, a "beer
   column" to separate ethanol and other alcohols from the majority of water and residual
 5 solids. The vapor exiting the beer column can be, e.g., 35% by weight ethanol and can be
   fed to a rectification column. A mixture of nearly azeotropic (92.5%) ethanol and water
   from the rectification column can be purified to pure (99.5%) ethanol using vapor-phase
   molecular sieves. The beer column bottoms can be sent to the first effect of a three-effect
   evaporator. The rectification column reflux condenser can provide heat for this first
10 effect. After the first effect, solids can be separated using a centrifuge and dried in a
   rotary dryer. A portion (25%) of the centrifuge effluent can be recycled to fermentation
   and the rest sent to the second and third evaporator effects. Most of the evaporator
   condensate can be returned to the process as fairly clean condensate with a small portion
   split off to waste water treatment to prevent build-up of low-boiling compounds.
15
   Other Possible Processing of Sugars
            Processing during or after saccharification can include isolation and/or
   concentration of sugars by chromatography e.g., simulated moving bed chromatography,
   precipitation, centrifugation, crystallization, solvent evaporation and combinations
20 thereof. In addition, or optionally, processing can include isomerization of one or more of
   the sugars in the sugar solution or suspension. Additionally, or optionally, the sugar
   solution or suspension can be chemically processed e.g., glucose and xylose can be
   hydrogenated to sorbitol and xylitol respectively. Hydrogenation can be accomplished by
   use of a catalyst e.g., Pt/y-A120 3, Ru/C, Raney Nickel in combination with H2 under high
25 pressure e.g., 10 to 12000 psi.
            Some possible processing steps are disclosed in in U.S. Provisional Application
   Serial No. 61/579,552, filed December 22, 2011, and in U.S. Provisional Application
   Serial No. 61/579,576 , filed December 22, 2011, incorporated by reference above.
                                                   35

    WO 2012/112529                                                                 PCT/US2012/025023
   INTERMEDIATES AND PRODUCTS
            Using, e.g., such primary processes and/or post-processing, the treated biomass
   can be converted to one or more products, such as energy, fuels, foods and materials.
   Specific examples of products include, but are not limited to, hydrogen, sugars (e.g.,
 5 glucose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose, fructose, disaccharides, oligosaccharides
   and polysaccharides), alcohols (e.g., monohydric alcohols or dihydric alcohols, such as
   ethanol, n-propanol, isobutanol, sec-butanol, tert-butanol or n-butanol), hydrated or
   hydrous alcohols, e.g., containing greater than 10%, 20%, 30% or even greater than 40%
   water, sugars, biodiesel, organic acids (e.g., acetic acid and/or lactic acid), hydrocarbons,
10 co-products (e.g., proteins, such as cellulolytic proteins (enzymes) or single cell proteins),
   and mixtures of any of these in any combination or relative concentration, and optionally
   in combination with any additives, e.g., fuel additives. Other examples include
   carboxylic acids, such as acetic acid or butyric acid, salts of a carboxylic acid, a mixture
   of carboxylic acids and salts of carboxylic acids and esters of carboxylic acids (e.g.,
15 methyl, ethyl and n-propyl esters), ketones, aldehydes, alpha, beta unsaturated acids, such
   as acrylic acid, olefins, such as ethylene, and mixtures of any of these. Other alcohols
   and alcohol derivatives include propanol, propylene glycol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,3
   propanediol, sugar alcohols (e.g., erythritol, glycol, glycerol, sorbitol threitol, arabitol,
   ribitol, mannitol, dulcitol, fucitol, iditol, isomalt, maltitol, lactitol, xylitol and other
20 polyols), methyl or ethyl esters of any of these alcohols. Other products include methyl
   acrylate, methylmethacrylate, lactic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, succinic acid, 3
   hydroxypropionic acid, a salt of any of the acids and a mixture of any of the acids and
   respective salts.
            In some embodiments using, e.g., such primary processes and/or post-processing,
25 the treated biomass can be converted to a platform chemical. For example, as stated
   above, the treated biomass can be converted to butanols (e.g., isobutanol, sec-butanol,
   tert-butanol or n-butanol) which are important platform chemicals. For example,
   dehydration of butanols can produce butenes such as 1-butene, cis-2-butene, trans-2
   butene and isobutene, which are highly valuable starting materials for synthetic fuels,
30 lubricants and other valuable chemicals. Specifically, 1-butene can be used in the
   creations of polymers, e.g., linear low density polyethylene, 2-butene isomers are
                                                    36

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
   valuable starting materials for lubricants and agricultural chemicals, and Isobutene can be
   polymerized to butyl rubber, methyl tert-butyl ether and isooctane. In addition, synthetic
   petroleum kerosene can be synthesized by oligomerization of butenes. Other
   intermediates and products, including food and pharmaceutical products, for example
 5 edible materials selected from the group consisting of pharmaceuticals, nutriceuticals,
   proteins, fats, vitamins, oils, fiber, minerals, sugars, carbohydrates and alcohols, are
   described in U.S. Serial No. 12/417,900, the full disclosure of which is hereby
   incorporated by reference herein.
   MATERIALS
10 Modified Plant Materials
            The plant feedstock is obtained at least in part from one or more types of modified
   plants, as discussed herein. In some cases, the feedstock includes more than one type of
   plant, and/or more than one portion of the plant, e.g., the stalk, fruit, and cob of a corn
   plant. The plant may be, for example, a corn, soybean, beet, cotton, rapeseed, potato,
15 rice, alfalfa, or sugarcane plant. The plant may also be any of the many types of
   genetically modified plants that are grown. The feedstock may contain a mixture of
   different types of plants, different parts of a particular plant, and/or mixtures of plant
   materials with other materials e.g., biomass materials.
            In some cases the entire plant can be used. For example, in cases where a crop is
20 ruined by adverse growing conditions (e.g., drought, frost, flooding, pest infestation) the
   ruined crop can be useful in the methods and processes described herein.
   Other Feedstock Materials
            In addition or as an alternative to the modified plant materials discussed above,
25 the feedstock can include other materials e.g., biomass materials, that may or may not be
   genetically modified. The biomass can be, e.g., a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material.
   Such materials include paper and paper products (e.g., polycoated paper and Kraft paper),
   wood, wood-related materials, e.g., particle board, grasses, rice hulls, bagasse, jute,
   hemp, flax, bamboo, sisal, abaca, straw, switchgrass, alfalfa, hay, corn cobs, corn stover,
                                                   37

    WO 2012/112529                                                            PCT/US2012/025023
   coconut hair; and materials high in c-cellulose content, e.g., cotton. Feedstocks can be
   obtained from virgin scrap textile materials, e.g., remnants, post consumer waste, e.g.,
   rags. When paper products are used they can be virgin materials, e.g., scrap virgin
   materials, or they can be post-consumer waste. Aside from virgin raw materials, post
 5 consumer, industrial (e.g., offal), and processing waste (e.g., effluent from paper
   processing) can also be used as fiber sources. Biomass feedstocks can also be obtained or
   derived from human (e.g., sewage), animal or plant wastes. Additional cellulosic and
   lignocellulosic materials have been described in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,448,307; 6,258,876;
   6,207,729; 5,973,035 and 5,952,105.
10         In some embodiments, the biomass material includes a carbohydrate that is or
   includes a material having one or more 0-1,4-linkages and having a number average
   molecular weight between about 3,000 and 50,000. Such a carbohydrate is or includes
   cellulose (I), which is derived from (-glucose 1) through condensation of 0(1,4)
   glycosidic bonds. This linkage contrasts itself with that for a(1,4)-glycosidic bonds
15 present in starch and other carbohydrates.
                                  HO                      0          OH
                                                      1
                                                 38

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
                                     OH
                                                             HO                          OH
                                               0
                     HOO
                      H0                                 OHO
                                               OH                                             OH
                                                   I
           Starchy materials include starch itself, e.g., corn starch, wheat starch, potato
   starch or rice starch, a derivative of starch, or a material that includes starch, such as an
 5 edible food product or a crop. For example, the starchy material can be arracacha,
   buckwheat, banana, barley, cassava, kudzu, oca, sago, sorghum, regular household
   potatoes, sweet potato, taro, yams, or one or more beans, such as favas, lentils or peas.
   Blends of any two or more starchy materials are also starchy materials.
           In some instances the biomass is a microbial material. Microbial sources include,
10 but are not limited to, any naturally occurring or genetically modified microorganism or
   organism that contains or is capable of providing a source of carbohydrates (e.g.,
   cellulose), for example, protists, e.g., animal protists (e.g., protozoa such as flagellates,
   amoeboids, ciliates, and sporozoa) and plant protists (e.g., algae such alveolates,
   chlorarachniophytes, cryptomonads, euglenids, glaucophytes, haptophytes, red algae,
15 stramenopiles, and viridaeplantae). Other examples include seaweed, plankton (e.g.,
   macroplankton, mesoplankton, microplankton, nanoplankton, picoplankton, and
   femptoplankton), phytoplankton, bacteria (e.g., gram positive bacteria, gram negative
   bacteria, and extremophiles), yeast and/or mixtures of these. In some instances,
   microbial biomass can be obtained from natural sources, e.g., the ocean, lakes, bodies of
20 water, e.g., salt water or fresh water, or on land. Alternatively or in addition, microbial
   biomass can be obtained from culture systems, e.g., large scale dry and wet culture
   systems.
   Saccharifying Agents
                                                   39

    WO 2012/112529                                                         PCT/US2012/025023
           Suitable enzymes include cellobiases and cellulases capable of degrading
   biomass.
           Suitable cellobiases include a cellobiase from Aspergillus niger sold under the
   tradename NOVOZYME 188TM.
 5         Cellulases are capable of degrading biomass, and may be of fungal or bacterial
   origin. Suitable enzymes include cellulases from the genera Bacillus, Pseudomonas,
   Humicola, Fusarium,Thielavia, Acremonium, Chrysosporium and Trichoderma, and
   include species of Humicola, Coprinus, Thielavia, Fusarium,Myceliophthora,
   Acremonium, Cephalosporium,Scytalidium, Penicillium or Aspergillus (see, e.g., EP
10 458162), especially those produced by a strain selected from the species Humicola
   insolens (reclassified as Scytalidium thermophilum, see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4,435,307),
   Coprinus cinereus,Fusariumoxysporum, Myceliophthora thermophila,Meripilus
   giganteus, Thielavia terrestris,Acremonium sp., Acremonium persicinum, Acremonium
   acremonium, Acremonium brachypenium,Acremonium dichromosporum,Acremonium
15 obclavatum, Acremonium pinkertoniae,Acremonium roseogriseum,Acremonium
   incoloratum, and Acremoniumfuratum; preferably from the species Humicola insolens
   DSM 1800, Fusariumoxysporum DSM 2672, Myceliophthora thermophila CBS 117.65,
   Cephalosporiumsp. RYM-202, Acremonium sp. CBS 478.94, Acremonium sp. CBS
   265.95, Acremonium persicinum CBS 169.65, Acremonium acremonium AHU 9519,
20 Cephalosporiumsp. CBS 535.71, Acremonium brachypenium CBS 866.73, Acremonium
   dichromosporum CBS 683.73, Acremonium obclavatum CBS 311.74, Acremonium
   pinkertoniaeCBS 157.70, Acremonium roseogriseum CBS 134.56, Acremonium
   incoloratum CBS 146.62, and Acremoniumfuratum CBS 299.70H. Cellulolytic enzymes
   may also be obtained from Chrysosporium,preferably a strain of Chrysosporium
25 lucknowense. Additionally, Trichoderma (particularlyTrichoderma viride, Trichoderma
   reesei, and Trichodermakoningii), alkalophilicBacillus (see, for example, U.S. Patent
   No. 3,844,890 and EP 458162), and Streptomyces (see, e.g., EP 458162) may be used.
           Enzyme complexes may be utilized, such as those available from Genencore
   under the tradename ACCELLERASE@, for example, Accellerase@ 1500 enzyme
30 complex. Accellerase 1500 enzyme complex contains multiple enzyme activities, mainly
   exoglucanase, endoglucanase (2200-2800 CMC U/g), hemi-cellulase, and beta
                                                 40

    WO 2012/112529                                                               PCT/US2012/025023
   glucosidase (525-775 pNPG U/g), and has a pH of 4.6 to 5.0. The endoglucanase activity
   of the enzyme complex is expressed in carboxymethylcellulose activity units (CMC U),
   while the beta-glucosidase activity is reported in pNP-glucoside activity units (pNPG U).
   In one embodiment, a blend of Accellerase@ 1500 enzyme complex and NOVOZYMETM
 5 188 cellobiase is used.
   Fermentation Agents
           The microorganism(s) used in fermentation can be natural microorganisms and/or
   engineered microorganisms. For example, the microorganism can be a bacterium, e.g., a
10 cellulolytic bacterium, a fungus, e.g., a yeast, a plant or a protist, e.g., an algae, a
   protozoa or a fungus-like protist, e.g., a slime mold. When the organisms are compatible,
   mixtures of organisms can be utilized.
           Suitable fermenting microorganisms have the ability to convert carbohydrates,
   such as glucose, fructose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose, oligosaccharides or
15 polysaccharides into fermentation products. Fermenting microorganisms include strains
   of the genus Sacchromyces spp. e.g., Sacchromyces cerevisiae(baker's yeast),
   Saccharomyces distaticus, Saccharomyces uvarum; the genus Kluyveromyces, e.g.,
   species Kluyveromyces marxianus,Kluyveromycesfragilis; the genus Candida, e.g.,
   Candidapseudotropicalis,and Candida brassicae,Pichiastipitis (a relative of Candida
20 shehatae, the genus Clavispora, e.g., species Clavispora lusitaniaeand Clavispora
   opuntiae, the genus Pachysolen, e.g., species Pachysolen tannophilus, the genus
   Bretannomyces, e.g., species Bretannomyces clausenii (Philippidis, G. P., 1996,
   Cellulose bioconversion technology, in Handbook on Bioethanol: Production and
   Utilization, Wyman, C.E., ed., Taylor & Francis, Washington, DC, 179-212). Other
25 suitable microorganisms include, for example, Zymomonas mobilis, Clostridium
   thermocellum (Philippidis, 1996, supra), Clostridiumsaccharobutylacetonicum,
   Clostridium saccharobutylicum,ClostridiumPuniceum, Clostridium beijernckii,
   Clostridium acetobutylicum, Moniliellapollinis, Yarrowia lipolytica, Aureobasidium sp.,
   Trichosporonoidessp., Trigonopsis variabilis, Trichosporonsp., Moniliellaacetoabutans,
30 Typhula variabilis,Candida magnoliae, Ustilaginomycetes,Pseudozyma tsukubaensis,
                                                  41

    WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
   yeast species of genera Zygosaccharomyces, Debaryomyces, Hansenula and Pichia,and
   fungi of the dematioid genus Torula.
            Commercially available yeasts include, for example, Red Star@/Lesaffre Ethanol
   Red (available from Red Star/Lesaffre, USA), FALI* (available from Fleischmann's
 5 Yeast, a division of Bums Philip Food Inc., USA), SUPERSTART* (available from
   Alltech, now Lalemand), GERT STRAND (available from Gert Strand AB, Sweden)
   and FERMOL* (available from DSM Specialties).
                                   OTHER EMBODIMENTS
10          A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless, it
   will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the
   spirit and scope of the invention.
            For example, the process parameters of any of the processing steps discussed
   herein can be adjusted based on the lignin content of the feedstock, for example as
15 disclosed in U.S. Serial No. 12/704,519, the full disclosure of which is incorporated
   herein by reference.
            The process may include any of the features described in U.S. Application Serial
   No. 13/276,192, the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference,
   including treating a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material to alter the structure of the
20 material by irradiating the material with relatively low voltage, high power electron beam
   radiation, boiling or steeping the feedstock prior to saccharification, and irradiating a
   cellulosic or lignocellulosic material with an electron beam at a dose rate of at least 0.5
   Mrad/sec.
            While it is possible to perform all the processes described herein at one physical
25 location, in some embodiments, the processes are completed at multiple sites, and/or may
   be performed during transport.
            Lignin liberated in any process described herein can be captured and utilized. For
   example, the lignin can be used as captured as a plastic, or it can be synthetically
   upgraded to other plastics. In some instances, it can be utilized as an energy source, e.g.,
30 burned to provide heat. In some instances, it can also be converted to lignosulfonates,
   which can be utilized as binders, dispersants, emulsifiers or as sequestrants.
                                                   42

    WO 2012/112529                                                            PCT/US2012/025023
   Measurement of the lignin content of the starting feedstock can be used in process control
   in such lignin-capturing processes.
           When used as a binder, the lignin or a lignosulfonate can, e.g., be utilized in coal
   briquettes, in ceramics, for binding carbon black, for binding fertilizers and herbicides, as
 5 a dust suppressant, in the making of plywood and particle board, for binding animal
   feeds, as a binder for fiberglass, as a binder in linoleum paste and as a soil stabilizer.
           As a dispersant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., concrete mixes,
   clay and ceramics, dyes and pigments, leather tanning and in gypsum board.
           As an emulsifier, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in asphalt,
10 pigments and dyes, pesticides and wax emulsions.
           As a sequestrant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in micro-nutrient
   systems, cleaning compounds and water treatment systems, e.g., for boiler and cooling
   systems.
           As a heating source, lignin generally has a higher energy content than
15 holocellulose (cellulose and hemicellulose) since it contains more carbon than
   homocellulose. For example, dry lignin can have an energy content of between about
   11,000 and 12,500 BTU per pound, compared to 7,000 an 8,000 BTU per pound of
   holocellulose. As such, lignin can be densified and converted into briquettes and pellets
   for burning. For example, the lignin can be converted into pellets by any method
20 described herein. For a slower burning pellet or briquette, the lignin can be crosslinked,
   such as applying a radiation dose of between about 0.5 Mrad and 5 Mrad. Crosslinking
   can make a slower burning form factor. The form factor, such as a pellet or briquette, can
   be converted to a "synthetic coal" or charcoal by pyrolyzing in the absence of air, e.g., at
   between 400 and 950 0 C. Prior to pyrolyzing, it can be desirable to crosslink the lignin to
25 maintain structural integrity.
           Accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.
   EXAMPLES OF GENETICALLY MODIFIED PLANTS
           The following US Patents and US Patent applications disclose, by example,
30 genetically modified material (e.g., plants, parts of plants) for the processes described
   herein or together with any materials described herein.
                                                  43

WO 2012/112529                                PCT/US2012/025023
     7566817   7763783 7714209    7659459 7615694        7534943
     7652202   7763782 7714208    7659458 7615693        7531724
     7569747   7763780 7709712    7659457 7615692        7528305
     7405344   7759563 7709711    7659456 7612268        7528304
     7683237   7759562 7709710    7659455 7612267        7525029
     7615621   7759561 7709709    7655849 7612266        7525027
     7816591   7759560 7709708    7655847 7612260        7525026
     7816590   7759559 7705221    7655846 7608765        7521614
     7816589   7750215 7705220    7655845 7608763        7521613
     7816587   7745707 7705216    7655844 7608762        7521612
     7807904   7741547 7700859    7655841 7605316        7521609
     7807903   7741546 7700858    7642433 7605315        7521607
     7807902   7737348 7700857    7642432 7605314        7518044
     7807901   7737347 7692077    7642431 7605313        7518043
     7807900   7737346 7692076    7642430 7605312        7518042
     7807899   7737345 7687689    7642429 7605311        7518041
     7807898   7737344 7683243    7642428 7605309        7514612
     7807897   7737343 7683242    7638694 7601900        7514611
     7807896   7732685 7683241    7638693 7601899        7514610
     7807895   7732684 7683239    7638692 7598441        7514609
     7807894   7728208 7678976    7638691 7598440        7511204
     7807893   7723589 7678975    7638690 7595440        7511203
     7807892   7723588 7678974    7638689 7595439        7511202
     7807891   7723587 7678973    7632995 7595438        7511201
     7807890   7723586 7678972    7632994 7595437        7511200
     7807889   7723585 7678971    7632990 7592527        7507880
     7807888   7718870 7678970    7629519 7592526        7507879
     7807887   7718869 7678969    7629518 7592525        7504569
     7804011   7718868 7678968    7629517 7592521        7504567
     7804010   7718867 7678967    7629516 7592520        7504566
     7804009   7718866 7678966    7629515 7582434        7501565
     7804008   7718865 7674961    7626101 7576265        7501564
     7804007   7718864 7671256    7626100 7566822        7498494
     7804006   7718863 7667113    7626099 7563966        7495157
     7804005   7718862 7667112    7626098 7563965        7495156
     7804004   7718861 7667111    7622660 7560625        7495155
     7804003   7718860 7667110    7622659 7557279        7488874
     7804002   7718859 7667109    7619153 7550655        7488873
     7804001   7714216 7663037    7619152 7547827        7488872
     7804000   7714215 7663036    7619151 7547826        7485783
     7803999   7714214 7663035    7619150 7547824        7479589
     7786359   7714213 7663034    7619147 7544868        7479586
     7781651   7714212 7659462    7615697 7544867        7479585
     7781650   7714211 7659461    7615696 7541527        7476785
     7772469   7714210 7659460    7615695 7541523        7476784
                               44

WO 2012/112529                                PCT/US2012/025023
     7476783   7381870 7262348    7179972 7737332        7544863
     7473830   7381869 7259303    7179969 7732679        7544862
     7473829   7381868 7256335    7176365 7728206        7534939
     7473826   7375266 7256334    7173172 7718854        7531718
     7470839   7375265 7256333    7169983 7714202        7528246
     7470836   7371948 7250564    7166778 7714201        7521594
     7468477   7371947 7247777    7166777 7709706        7511130
     7462765   7371946 7241944    7166776 7709705        7465849
     7462764   7371945 7235726    7164068 7388135        7423203
     7462763   7368643 7235725    7164065 7388134        7417177
     7459613   7368640 7235724    7161070 7381861        7417176
     7459612   7365252 7235722    7161069 7253345        7408096
     7459611   7365251 7235720    7157630 7250563        7405343
     7456345   7365250 7232945    7157626 7247774        7385107
     7456344   7365249 7232944    7157625 7223907        7365241
     7456343   7361820 7232943    7157624 7189514        7335812
     7456342   7361819 7230173    7157281 RE39,580       7329799
     7453031   7361818 7227062    7154031 7816581        7304206
     7453030   7361817 7227061    7151208 7812219        7294711
     7449622   7361815 7223908    7148410 7807874        7288408
     7449621   7361814 7220900    6906250 7807873        7268276
     7449620   7358427 7217874    6864409 7807812        7262339
     7449619   7355107 7217873    6855877 7807811        7250501
     7439424   7351890 7217872    6825400 7803928        7244877
     7432427   7351888 7217871    6114610 7799970        7230165
     7432426   7342156 7211717    6103959 7790953        7227056
     7429696   7342155 7211716    6103958 7786353        7217867
     7423207   7342152 7208663    6084161 7786350        7217865
     7423206   7339101 7208662    6054640 7750207        7205457
     7423204   7339100 7208661    7112725 7745694        7195917
     7417183   7339099 7208660    7825304 7728190        7186893
     7417182   7339098 7205466    7825303 7714189        7157619
     7414181   7335827 7205465    7825302 7705201        7151204
     7408099   7335826 7205464    7825301 7700838        7148398
     7399915   7335822 7199291    7825300 7692067        7141722
     7399912   7329803 7199290    7825300 7674952        7138278
     7399911   7321088 7193146    7820888 7674894        7122719
     7394003   7321087 7193143    7820887 7662940        7112717
     7390946   7321086 7189906    7803997 7655838        7078592
     7390945   7321085 7189904    7799972 7635764        7067722
     7388140   7321084 7189903    7750213 7625738        7064249
     7388139   7319182 7186906    7750212 7615680        7022897
     7385122   7317155 7186904    7745704 7605244        6943281
     7385121   7297848 7186903    7741543 7601890        6916970
     7385120   7294772 7186901    7737335 7595382        6841717
     7381874   7288704 7186899    7737334 7589188        6822142
     7381873   7268279 7183471    7737333 7553952        6803501
                               45

WO 2012/112529                                PCT/US2012/025023
     6620988   7728196 7626089    7557277 7491870        7381867
     6538179   7723583 7626088    7557276 7488869        7381866
     6538178   7714198 7626087    7557275 7488868        7378578
     6501009   7709703 7626086    7557274 7488867        7378577
     6476295   7705211 7622646    7557273 7485781        7375262
     6448476   7705208 7622645    7557272 7485780        7371938
     6448473   7705207 7622644    7557271 7482516        7368637
     6284949   7700849 7622643    7557270 7479583        7368635
     6281016   7700847 7622642    7554016 7479582        7358420
     6177615   7700846 7619143    7554015 7468474        7355103
     6175061   7700844 7619142    7554014 7459609        7355102
     6156573   7700843 7619141    7554013 7453029        7351886
     6107549   7692070 7619140    7550653 7453028        7351885
     6023013   7687686 7619139    7531722 7446244        7345228
     5463175   7687685 7615688    7531721 7442864        7345227
     7531725   7687684 7615687    7531720 7442863        7345226
     7468476   7678965 7612259    7531719 7442862        7345225
     7253346   7678964 7608761    7528306 7442860        7345224
     7214863   7678963 7605306    7528301 7439422        7342151
     7186900   7678962 7598434    7525028 7423200        7342150
     7166780   7659454 7595435    7525025 7423199        7332656
     7166779   7659453 7592517    7525019 7414177        7332655
     7157628   7659452 7592516    7525018 7414176        7329801
     7157627   7655839 7592514    7525017 7408097        7326832
     7563949   7652199 7592513    7521608 7405349        7321082
     7807884   7652198 7592512    7521605 7405348        7321079
     7799973   7652197 7592511    7518036 7399909        7314983
     7790964   7649129 7582810    7514607 7399907        7314982
     7786357   7649128 7579525    7514606 7396983        7314981
     7781649   7649127 7579524    7514605 7394000        7314980
     7777104   7649126 7579523    7514604 7390942        7312382
     7777103   7642413 7572960    7514603 7390941        7312380
     7767887   7642412 7572958    7514602 7390940        7309818
     7759556   7642411 7572957    7507878 7390939        7307201
     7759553   7642410 7572956    7507877 7390938        7304218
     7759551   7642409 7569752    7504565 7388132        7304214
     7732677   7642408 7569751    7504564 7388131        7304213
     7732676   7642407 7569750    7501563 7388130        7301076
     7732675   7632987 7566821    7501562 7385117        7297843
     7732674   7632985 7566820    7501560 7385116        7294770
     7732673   7629510 7563955    7498491 7385115        7294768
     7732672   7629509 7563954    7498490 7385113        7294765
     7728204   7629508 7563953    7498489 7385112        7294764
     7728203   7629507 7560619    7498486 7385111        7294763
     7728202   7629506 7560618    7498485 7385110        7291771
     7728201   7626091 7560617    7498484 7385109        7291769
     7728199   7626090 7560616    7491871 7385108        7285704
                               46

WO 2012/112529                                PCT/US2012/025023
     7279621   7132591 7045687    6900373 6080916        5902923
     7276648   7129399 7045686    6900372 6063990        5898100
     7271324   7126046 7041881    6894207 6063989        5880346
     7265277   7119260 7041880    6888049 6051761        5880345
     7265276   7119259 7041879    6888048 6043414        5880344
     7265275   7119258 7038114    6884927 6040499        5872304
     7265274   7115801 7034210    6884926 6037529        5872303
     7265273   7109399 7034209    6884925 6034303        5866774
     7265272   7105728 7030301    6884924 6034302        5866773
     7265271   7105727 7030300    6884923 6034301        5866772
     7265270   7105726 7019199    6881879 6034300        5866771
     7259299   7102062 7012174    6875908 6034299        5859352
     7259298   7102061 7005563    6870079 6031159        5723745
     7256330   7098385 7002062    6861579 6020542        7268274
     7247772   7098384 7002058    6858784 6020541        7402731
     7247771   7091403 6982367    6858783 6018108        6865556
     7244881   7087815 6982366    6852912 6018107        5424412
     7241941   7084328 6979761    6849786 6005171        5463175
     7241939   7084326 6979760    6849785 6005170        5484956
     7235718   7084325 6972355    6846973 6002073        5554798
     7217870   7084324 6972354    6835873 5998709        559387
     7217869   7081572 6972353    6828489 5998708        5641876
     7217868   7078600 6969787    6815589 5998707        5659122
     7196253   7078598 6967263    6815588 5998706        571084
     7196252   7078597 6960707    6815587 5998705        5728925
     7196251   7078595 6958436    6815586 5998704        5750871
     7193140   7074989 6953876    6809237 5998703        5804425
     7193139   7074988 6951973    6781040 5990391        5859347
     7193137   7071390 6936754    6653534 5986179        6020190
     7189900   7071389 6936753    6198027 5986178        6025545
     7189898   7071388 6933423    6177618 5981851        6040497
     7183467   7071387 6924418    6169227 5981850        6051753
     7183465   7067723 6919498    6137034 5981849        6180774
     7183464   7064253 6914174    6133510 5981848        6218188
     7183463   7060878 6914173    6124527 5981845        6340593
     7183462   7060877 6914172    6121518 5977449        6489542
     7183461   7057096 6911585    6121517 5977448        6501009
     7176359   7057095 6911581    6121516 5977447        6548291
     7176358   7057094 6911580    6121515 5977444        6573240
     7176357   7057093 6911579    6114604 5973235        6645497
     7173168   7057092 6911578    6103957 5969218        6660911
     7169976   7053280 6906248    6100454 5969217        6737273
     7169975   7053279 6906247    6096949 5945588        6753463
     7169974   7053272 6906246    6091005 5942666        6825400
     7166774   7049494 6903253    6087562 5932786        6893872
     7148408   7049493 6903251    6084159 5929310        6900371
     7138570   7045691 6900376    6080918 5907088        6943282
                               47

WO 2012/112529                                PCT/US2012/025023
     6949696   7482510 7834247    7772465 7663031        7601894
     6962705   7473819 7834246    7772370 7663029        7598443
     7064249   7465850 7834245    7767889 7655848        7598442
     7112665   7456337 7834240    7767888 7655843        7598439
     7112725   7456335 7829764    7763778 7655842        7598438
     7141722   7442853 7829760    7763465 7652201        7598437
     7157281   7439417 7825310    7759564 7652200        7598435
     7223907   7435875 7825309    7759555 7652195        7595436
     7227056   7427698 7825308    7759554 7645923        7592524
     7250501   7427696 7825307    7759544 7645922        7592523
     7288643   7425666 7825299    7759543 7645921        7592522
     7381861   7425665 7825294    7754949 7642421        7592519
     7435807   7423196 7825234    7754948 7642420        7592505
     7449564   7399904 7820895    7750216 7642419        7589264
     7514544   7399903 7820894    7745706 7642418        7589263
     RE38825   7375209 7820893    7745705 7642417        7589261
     RE39247   7317140 7820892    7745702 7638695        7589260
     7829761   7303919 7820891    7745701 7638688        7589259
     7807882   7271316 7820886    7741545 7632993        7589258
     7803987   7259294 7820885    7737342 7632992        7589257
     7799971   7238856 7816586    7737341 7632989        7589176
     7795500   7235713 7816585    7737340 7632988        7586028
     7795414   7220585 7812231    7737336 7629514        7586027
     7790873   7189893 7812230    7737330 7629513        7586026
     7763777   7186561 7812226    7736897 7629512        7586025
     7763776   7179962 7812225    7732683 7629511        7582816
     7718858   7176026 7812223    7732668 7629505        7582815
     7718857   7166767 7812216    7728207 7629504        7582814
     7714190   7164057 7807883    7718856 7624533        7582813
     7709698   7161063 7807876    7714205 7622647        7582812
     7652203   7135618 7803998    7714187 7622637        7582811
     7622570   7125719 7803996    7714184 7619149        7582808
     7619137   7105723 7803993    7709702 7619148        7579530
     7608759   7087261 7803990    7705219 7615690        7579529
     7608757   7034208 7803989    7705218 7612265        7579522
     7598431   6867351 7799977    7700856 7612264        7576271
     7579517   6825399 7799975    7700855 7612263        7576270
     7563948   6818805 7799974    7700854 7612262        7576269
     7521598   6784338 7799566    7700836 7612256        7576268
     7521597   6774288 7795508    7700832 7612254        7576267
     7514599   6720477 7795506    7692061 7612251        7576266
     7504559   6710229 7790969    7687687 7608764        7572963
     7498482   6689939 7790874    7683240 7608755        7572962
     7498429   6677504 7777107    7667115 7608752        7572961
     7495151   6329518 7777106    7667107 7605307        7572955
     7485775   6225526 7772468    7663033 7601898        7569757
     7482511   7834257 7772467    7663032 7601897        7569756
                               48

WO 2012/112529                                PCT/US2012/025023
     7569755   7525023 7456339    7371936 7317149        7276650
     7569754   7525022 7442861    7365253 7317148        7276649
     7569753   7525021 7439425    7361812 7317147        7276647
     7569749   7525020 7439421    7361807 7317146        7276596
     7566819   7521611 7439348    7358425 7317145        7273975
     7563964   7521610 7435885    7358424 7317143        7273973
     7563963   7521604 7435883    7358423 7317137        7273972
     7563962   7521603 7435881    7355108 7314990        7273971
     7563961   7521602 7435880    7355106 7314989        7273965
     7563960   7521601 7435879    7355105 7314988        7271327
     7563959   7518037 7432424    7355104 7314987        7271326
     7563958   7514601 7432423    7351882 7312385        7271323
     7563957   7511205 7432422    7351878 7312384        7271319
     7560624   7511196 7432421    7348469 7312377        7270380
     7560623   7511195 7432418    7348468 7312375        7268278
     7560612   7511194 7429695    7345230 7309816        7268277
     7557266   7511193 7427702    7342157 7306946        7268270
     7557263   7511192 7427701    7342154 7304222        7268226
     7554020   7511188 7427700    7339097 7304221        7265279
     7553951   7504568 7423202    7339096 7304212        7265265
     7550657   7504558 7423197    7339092 7304211        7262350
     7550656   7501561 7420103    7335828 7301082        7262349
     7550575   7498488 7414180    7335825 7301080        7262347
     7547832   7498487 7414179    7335824 7301079        7262346
     7547831   7498413 7414174    7335823 7301075        7262345
     7547830   7495154 7411118    7335817 7301069        7262342
     7547829   7495150 7411113    7332660 7297850        7259305
     7547825   7491869 7411112    7332659 7297849        7259304
     7547822   7485779 7399914    7332658 7297841        7259302
     7544869   7485778 7399910    7332650 7294774        7259301
     7544866   7482515 7399908    7329806 7294769        7256332
     7544865   7482513 7399906    7329805 7294767        7256331
     7544864   7479588 7396980    7329804 7294766        7256322
     7544857   7479581 7393999    7326836 7291774        7256280
     7541526   7476781 7388141    7326835 7291773        7253000
     7541525   7473828 7388137    7326833 7288703        7250552
     7541524   7473827 7388133    7326830 7288701        7241943
     7541521   7473821 7388128    7323623 7288700        7241942
     7541520   7470838 7388125    7321089 7288699        7241940
     7541517   7470834 7381872    7321083 7285707        7241934
     7538261   7470833 7381871    7321031 7285706        7238859
     7528308   7468278 7381865    7319183 7285702        7235723
     7528307   7465856 7381863    7317154 7282629        7232946
     7528300   7465852 7378574    7317153 7282627        7230172
     7528299   7462766 7375264    7317152 7282626        7230171
     7528293   7462760 7375263    7317151 7279615        7230169
     7525024   7459610 7371944    7317150 7276652        7230158
                               49

WO 2012/112529                                PCT/US2012/025023
     7227065   7179971 7151207    7064255 7005565        6951974
     7227064   7179970 7151205    7064252 7002061        6949699
     7227063   7179968 7148406    7064251 7002056        6946589
     7227060   7179967 7148401    7064250 6998518        6943279
     7227059   7179963 7141721    7064247 6995305        6936756
     7227058   7179955 7129402    7060879 6995304        6936755
     7220902   7179599 7129401    7060813 6995303        6936752
     7220901   7176364 7129395    7053286 6992240        6936751
     7214865   7176363 7122725    7053285 6992239        6933427
     7214864   7176362 7115802    7053284 6992238        6933425
     7214860   7176360 7112731    7053283 6992237        6930230
     7214857   7176356 7112729    7053282 6989481        6930229
     7214855   7176349 7112728    7053275 6989480        6930225
     7214854   7176027 7109403    7049499 6989479        6927327
     7214852   7173174 7109391    7049495 6989478        6927326
     7211718   7173173 7109390    7045692 6989475        6924421
     7211714   7169988 7102064    7045682 6989474        6921852
     7211712   7169987 7102063    7041887 6987217        6921850
     7205455   7169986 7098390    7041886 6987212        6921847
     7205453   7169985 7098381    7041874 6984778        6919500
     RE39,562  7169984 7094957    7038109 6982371        6919499
     7202403   7169980 7094956    7038108 6979764        6916975
     7202402   7169979 7091407    7034214 6979763        6914178
     7199294   7169978 7091406    7034213 6979759        6914177
     7199293   7169977 7091398    7034211 6977327        6914171
     7199292   7169973 7087823    7030303 6974900        6914170
     7199289   7166784 7087822    7030302 6974899        6911587
     7196256   7166782 7087821    7030298 6972357        6911577
     7196255   7166781 7087820    7026533 6972356        6909039
     7196254   7166769 7084335    7022904 6972352        6909038
     7193145   7166765 7084332    7022902 6969790        6906251
     7193144   7164070 7084327    7022899 6969789        6906243
     7193141   7164069 7081566    7019200 6969788        6905857
     7193136   7164067 7078603    7019198 6969786        6903254
     7193135   7164066 7078602    7015386 6967269        6903205
     7193130   7164063 7078601    7015385 6967268        6900378
     7189905   7164062 7078596    7015381 6967267        6900377
     7189902   7164061 7078589    7015380 6967264        6897365
     7189901   7164056 7074991    7015379 6965063        6897364
     7189899   7161074 7071397    7015376 6960708        6897363
     7189889   7161073 7071396    7015375 6958438        6897362
     7186905   7161072 7071395    7012177 6958437        6897361
     7186902   7161071 7071394    7012176 6956153        6897360
     7186896   7161068 7071393    7009094 6956150        6891090
     7183472   7161065 7067727    7009093 6953878        6891085
     7183469   7157632 7067720    7009087 6953877        6888051
     7183460   7154030 7064256    7005566 6951975        6887708
                               50

WO 2012/112529                                PCT/US2012/025023
     6881881   6815585 6759578    6706949 6555732        6333452
     6881880   6815584 6759577    6700041 6555673        6333451
     6878865   6815583 6756530    6693231 6541684        6331661
     6878864   6815578 6756529    6677503 6538177        6329579
     6878863   6812384 6756528    6677502 6538176        6326530
     6875907   6812383 6753464    6667427 6528704        6326529
     6872874   6812380 6750384    6660907 6518487        6323402
     6872873   6809242 6750380    6657107 6518483        6323401
     6864411   6809241 6747196    6646182 6515202        6323400
     6864408   6809236 6747193    6639131 6504084        6323399
     6864407   6806408 6743970    6639126 6504083        6323398
     6861577   6806407 6740798    6635807 6504082        6323015
     6858785   6806406 6740796    6630615 6479730        6320106
     6858782   6806405 6740795    6630614 6476292        6320105
     6858781   6806404 6737566    6627797 6472185        6316704
     6858778   6806401 6737565    6617499 6444874        6316703
     6855878   6803508 6737562    6617498 6441151        6316702
     6855876   6803498 6737560    6613967 6433259        6316700
     6855875   6800796 6734348    6613966 6429362        6313384
     6855874   6800795 6734347    6613965 6426452        6313383
     6855871   6797868 6734345    6613964 6423888        6313382
     6852913   6797867 6734341    6613963 6423886        6313381
     6849791   6797866 6730837    6610911 6410829        6313376
     6849789   6797865 6730836    6610910 6407315        6313375
     6849788   6797864 6730835    6608243 6403862        6310274
     6849787   6797863 6730834    6608240 6403860        6307132
     6846976   6797859 6730829    6605762 6399856        6307131
     6846975   6794563 6727413    6605761 6392127        6303851
     6846974   6791016 6727412    6605760 6392126        6297433
     6844488   6784350 6727410    6605759 6388179        6297432
     6838593   6784349 6723903    6605758 6388171        6297426
     6835877   6784347 6723902    6605757 6388169        6291745
     6835875   6784341 6720487    6605756 6384302        6288310
     6833498   6781043 6720486    6605755 6372961        6287843
     6831215   6781042 6720481    6600095 6369301        6284953
     6828493   6781041 6720478    6586659 6369300        6284950
     6828490   6777599 6720475    6586657 6362400        6284948
     6825405   6777598 6717040    6583343 6359201        6271439
     6825404   6777597 6717039    6583342 6346657        6271437
     6825397   6777596 6717038    6583341 6344603        6268553
     6822144   6777590 6717037    6580018 6342659        6265646
     6822140   6774290 6717036    6576819 6339186        6265636
     6818813   6774289 6717033    6576814 6339144        6259005
     6818811   6774282 6713666    6573433 6337100        6259004
     6818809   6770802 6713665    6566589 6335476        6255090
     6818808   6765132 6706954    6566584 6335197        6248935
     6815592   6759580 6706951    6563020 6333453        6242673
                               51

WO 2012/112529                                PCT/US2012/025023
     6242672   6156958 6111167    5990392 5902921        5792909
     6235976   6153817 6107551    5990389 5900526        5792908
     6235972   6153816 6107550    5986185 5900524        5792907
     6232529   6147285 6107545    5986184 5895835        5783190
     6232527   6147284 6100030    5986183 5889188        5773697
     6229079   6147283 6096953    5981854 5866768        5773684
     6229078   6143962 6096951    5977457 5866767       5773682
     6229077   6143956 6096947    5977456 5866766        5770790
     6229074   6143955 6093875    5977451 5866765        5767347
     6229073   6143954 6091007    5977445 5861541        5767344
     6225537   6140562 6091006    5973237 5859354        5767343
     6225529   6140557 6087567    5973234 5859341        5767340
     6222103   6137037 6087566    5962772 5859320        5763757
     6222102   6137036 6087565    5962771 5859319        5763747
     6222101   6133514 6087564    5959185 5859318        5763746
     6215049   6133513 6087559    5955361 5859317        5763744
     6211445   6133508 6084164    5952550 5859316        5763743
     6211440   6130370 6084160    5952549 5859313        5763243
     6211437   6127610 6080919    5948957 5852226        5750868
     6211435   6127609 6080913    5945587 5852225        5750849
     6211434   6127603 6077998    5945586 5850024        5750847
     6211433   6127602 6077997    5942671 5850016        5750843
     6198026   6127600 6077993    5942670 5850013        5750842
     6197561   6124535 6075186    5942669 5850012        5750841
     6194638   6124534 6075182    5942668 5850011        5750839
     6194637   6124533 6072104    5942667 5850010        5750838
     6191343   6124532 6069304    5939608 5850009        5750835
     6188001   6124531 6057491    5939607 5850007        5750834
     6188000   6124530 6054639    5936148 5844118        5750832
     6184448   6124529 6040505    5936147 5844117        5750831
     6184445   6124526 6037530    5936142 5844116        5750829
     6184439   6121524 6037523    5936141 5841015        5741684
     6180857   6121523 6028254    5936140 5827940        5736627
     6180856   6121522 6028252    5929313 5824844        5731499
     6180850   6121520 6025547    5929311 5824524        5731497
     6177613   6121514 6020543    5929301 5817918        5731496
     6177611   6118056 6018113    5920002 5811651        5731494
     6175065   6118055 6018112    5917134 5811650        5731493
     6175058   6118054 6018111    5917130 5811639        5731492
     6169234   6118053 6018110    5917129 5811638        5731491
     6166305   6118052 6018109    5917125 5811637        5728926
     6166303   6118051 6015941    5912417 5804692        5728921
     6166296   6114614 6013859    5910634 5804691        5728920
     6162968   6114613 6005172    5910633 5792915        5728919
     6162964   6114612 6005168    5908976 5792912        5728558
     6160211   6114607 5998711    5907086 5792911        5723723
     6160209   6111173 5990393    5905189 5792910        5723722
                               52

WO 2012/112529                                PCT/US2012/025023
     5717129   5541352 5159133    6495738 5451514
     5708189   5534661 5159132    6410828
     5689036   5530184 5157208    6384207
     5689034   5527986 5157206    6331664
     5675066   5506368 5097096    6323395
     5639946   5506367 5097095    6166302
     5638637   5502272 5097093    6048838
     5633427   5495069 5097092    7799906
     5625133   5495066 5095174    7723584
     5625132   5495065 5082992    7709697
     5625130   5491295 5082991    7674951
     5625129   5491290 5049503    7663023
     5618987   5491289 4996049    7598430
     5608140   5491287 4812600    7288409
     5608139   5491286 4812599    7232941
     5608138   5478369 4806669    7148406
     5602318   5476999 4806652    7135616
     5602317   5463173 4737596    7087426
     5602312   5461171 4731499    7071384
     5585538   5453564 7820883    7071376
     5585537   5444178 7795395    7049485
     5583210   5436390 7728195    7012172
     5576472   5434346 7723582    6906239
     5574209   5432068 7723581    6855864
     5574208   5426041 7723580    6831208
     5569822   5416254 7723579    6703539
     5569821   5387758 7723578    6653528
     5569819   5387755 7723577    6635805
     5569818   5387754 7718852    6610908
     5569817   5367109 7709707    6489538
     5569816   5365014 7709623    6479732
     5567861   5356799 7671253    6476291
     5563326   5354941 7667100    6455762
     5563325   5349119 7635798    6441272
     5563323   5347081 7566818    6252135
     5563322   5347080 7456340    6242381
     5563321   5347079 7411117    6211432
     5563320   5316930 7371935    6204434
     5563055   5304720 7355100    6066780
     5557038   5304719 7348473    6015943
     5557035   5285004 7332657    5981837
     5557034   5276265 7179965    5959178
     5545814   5276264 7071386    5952486
     5545813   5260503 7071385    5922928
     5545812   5245125 6791013    5886243
     5545809   5220114 6753460    5850020
     5543575   5159134 6753459    5646333
                               53

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20100071092 20100293639  20100275304
     20100058498 20100293638  20100275303
     20100058496 20100293637  20100275301
     20090119796 20100293634  20100275300
     20090106862 20100293633  20100275299
     20090044294 20100293632  20100275298
     20090019605 20100293630  20100275297
     20080313774 20100293629  20100275296
     20080235820 20100287653  20100275295
     20080213871 20100287652  20100275294
     20080118954 20100287651  20100275293
     20080058510 20100287650  20100275292
     20060206964 20100287649  20100275291
     20060130183 20100287648  20100275290
     20060101535 20100287647  20100275289
     20050091707 20100287646  20100275288
     20050076403 20100287645  20100275287
     20040049802 20100287644  20100275286
     20030163839 20100287643  20100273987
     20030131373 20100287642  20100272880
     20020138870 20100285202  20100269224
     20020078477 20100281564  20100269211
     20020078474 20100281563  20100269210
     20100293661 20100281562  20100269209
     20100293660 20100281561  20100269208
     20100293659 20100281560  20100269207
     20100293658 20100281559  20100269206
     20100293657 20100281558  20100269205
     20100293656 20100281557  20100269204
     20100293655 20100278996  20100269203
     20100293654 20100275332  20100269202
     20100293653 20100275322  20100269201
     20100293652 20100275318  20100269200
     20100293651 20100275317  20100269199
     20100293650 20100275316  20100269198
     20100293649 20100275315  20100269197
     20100293648 20100275314  20100269196
     20100293647 20100275313  20100269195
     20100293646 20100275312  20100263083
     20100293645 20100275310  20100263082
     20100293644 20100275309  20100263081
     20100293643 20100275308  20100263080
     20100293642 20100275307  20100263079
     20100293640 20100275305  20100263078
                      54

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20100263077 20100115649  20090288198
     20100263076 20100115648  20090288197
     20100263075 20100115647  20090288195
     20100263074 20100115646  20090288194
     20100263073 20100115645  20090288191
     20100263072 20100115644  20090288189
     20100263071 20100115643  20090288188
     20100263070 20100112182  20090282575
     20100263069 20100107272  20090282574
     20100263068 20100107271  20090282573
     20100260921 20100107270  20090282572
     20100260920 20100107268  20090282571
     20100257630 20100107267  20090282570
     20100257629 20100100980  20090282569
     20100257628 20100080887  20090282568
     20100257627 20100064394  20090282567
     20100257626 20100043094  20090282566
     20100257625 20100043093  20090282565
     20100257621 20100043091  20090282564
     20100255175 20100043090  20090282563
     20100251412 20100043088  20090282562
     20100251411 20100043087  20090282561
     20100251410 20100043086  20090282560
     20100251408 20100037339  20090282559
     20100251407 20100037338  20090282558
     20100251406 20100037337  20090282557
     20100251405 20100037336  20090282556
     20100251403 20100037333  20090282555
     20100251402 20100024064  20090282554
     20100251401 20100024063  20090282553
     20100251400 20100024062  20090282552
     20100251399 20100024054  20090282551
     20100251398 20100024052  20090282550
     20100249389 20090288216  20090282549
     20100248963 20090288215  20090282548
     20100247733 20090288213  20090282547
     20100242132 20090288212  20090282546
     20100242130 20090288211  20090282545
     20100242129 20090288210  20090282544
     20100218269 20090288208  20090282543
     20100196580 20090288207  20090282542
     20100192245 20090288206  20090282541
     20100173061 20090288205  20090282540
     20100168455 20090288203  20090282539
     20100146656 20090288202  20090282538
     20100138953 20090288201  20090282536
     20100115652 20090288200  20090282535
                      55

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20090282534 20090276895  20090081353
     20090282533 20090276894  20090077694
     20090282532 20090276893  20090070902
     20090282531 20090276892  20090070891
     20090282530 20090276891  20090055957
     20090282529 20090276885  20090055956
     20090282528 20090276884  20090055955
     20090282527 20090276883  20090031438
     20090282526 20090276882  20090029861
     20090282525 20090276881  20090019604
     20090282523 20090276880  20090019603
     20090282522 20090276879  20090019595
     20090282521 20090276878  20090019594
     20090282520 20090276871  20090019593
     20090282519 20090276870  20090019592
     20090282517 20090276869  20090019591
     20090282516 20090275741  20090019590
     20090282515 20090246350  20090019589
     20090282514 20090241213  20090019588
     20090282513 20090241212  20090019587
     20090282512 20090241211  20090019586
     20090282511 20090241210  20090019585
     20090282510 20090235379  20090019584
     20090282509 20090235378  20090019583
     20090282508 20090235377  20090019582
     20090282500 20090229004  20090019581
     20090282499 20090229003  20090019580
     20090282498 20090229002  20090019579
     20090276916 20090210961  20090019578
     20090276915 20090169709  20090019577
     20090276914 20090165163  20090019576
     20090276913 20090165162  20090019575
     20090276910 20090165161  20090019574
     20090276909 20090165159  20090019573
     20090276908 20090165158  20090019572
     20090276907 20090151020  20090019571
     20090276906 20090138989  20090019570
     20090276905 20090138985  20090019569
     20090276904 20090133147  20090019568
     20090276903 20090133146  20090019567
     20090276902 20090133145  20090019565
     20090276901 20090133144  20090019564
     20090276900 20090133143  20090013429
     20090276899 20090133142  20090013428
     20090276898 20090100536  20090013427
     20090276897 20090098099  20090013426
     20090276896 20090083886  20090013425
                      56

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20090007290 20080313765  20080313760
     20090007289 20080313764  20080313759
     20090007288 20080313763  20080313758
     20090007287 20080313762  20080313757
     20090007286 20080313761  20080282432
     20080282422 20080282378  20080263712
     20080282421 20080282377  20080263711
     20080282420 20080282376  20080263706
     20080282419 20080282375  20080263705
     20080282418 20080282374  20080260929
     20080282417 20080282373  20080256669
     20080282416 20080282372  20080235819
     20080282415 20080282371  20080227639
     20080282414 20080282370  20080216190
     20080282413 20080282366  20080216189
     20080282412 20080280361  20080178345
     20080282411 20080276330  20080178344
     20080282410 20080271197  20080178343
     20080282409 20080271196  20080178342
     20080282408 20080271195  20080178341
     20080282407 20080271194  20080178340
     20080282406 20080271193  20080178338
     20080282405 20080271192  20080178337
     20080282404 20080271191  20080178336
     20080282403 20080271190  20080178335
     20080282402 20080271189  20080178334
     20080282401 20080271188  20080178333
     20080282400 20080271187  20080178332
     20080282399 20080271186  20080178331
     20080282398 20080271185  20080178330
     20080282397 20080271184  20080178329
     20080282396 20080271183  20080178328
     20080282395 20080271182  20080178327
     20080282394 20080271181  20080178326
     20080282393 20080271180  20080178322
     20080282392 20080271179  20080178320
     20080282389 20080271178  20080178319
     20080282388 20080271177  20080178318
     20080282387 20080271176  20080178317
     20080282386 20080271175  20080172761
     20080282385 20080271174  20080172756
     20080282384 20080271173  20080172755
     20080282383 20080271172  20080172754
     20080282382 20080271171  20080168576
     20080282381 20080271170  20080155711
     20080282380 20080271168  20080155710
     20080282379 20080263713  20080155708
                      57

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20080155707 20060162007  20040237150
     20080148428 20060111254  20040237149
     20080148427 20060107348  20040237148
     20080148426 20060101543  20040237139
     20080148425 20060070140  20040221346
     20080148424 20060064777  20040221344
     20080148423 20060064776  20040221343
     20080148422 20060059590  20040221342
     20080148421 20060059589  20040221341
     20080148420 20060021081  20040221339
     20080070296 20060010530  20040221335
     20080066202 20060010529  20040221329
     20080064866 20060010528  20040221328
     20080050506 20060010527  20040210958
     20080022423 20060010526  20040205862
     20070266456 20060010525  20040205861
     20070256190 20060010524  20040205860
     20070256187 20060010523  20040205859
     20070256186 20060010522  20040205857
     20070256185 20060010521  20040205856
     20070256184 20050289664  20040205854
     20070256182 20050193440  20040205849
     20070256181 20050193438  20040168228
     20070256180 20050193437  20040168225
     20070256179 20050193436  20040168224
     20070256171 20050183155  20040168223
     20070256170 20050183154  20040168222
     20070256155 20050183153  20040168219
     20070250957 20050155114  20040148665
     20070250955 20050155106  20040148664
     20070250954 20050144680  20040148663
     20070250952 20050144679  20040148662
     20070250951 20050144678  20040148660
     20070250950 20050144677  20040148659
     20070250949 20050144676  20040148650
     20070250947 20050144675  20040132975
     20070214516 20050144674  20040111772
     20070067871 20050132437  20040111770
     20070054400 20050114929  20040093637
     20070037708 20050114928  20040060082
     20070022494 20050079494  20040055059
     20070011761 20050071900  20040055058
     20060288451 20050022272  20040055057
     20060288447 20050022261  20040055056
     20060282915 20050005332  20040055055
     20060265778 20050005321  20040055054
     20060174372 20040237152  20040055051
                      58

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20040055049 20100175149  20090089891
     20040055048 20100162434  20090083882
     20040055047 20100162432  20090075819
     20040055045 20100162431  20090064374
     20040055044 20100162430  20090055970
     20040055043 20100162429  20090038025
     20040049821 20100132071  20090031451
     20040049820 20100115664  20090031446
     20040049817 20100095404  20090031440
     20040049816 20100095403  20090029860
     20040049815 20100093715  20080307543
     20040049814 20100088784  20080301835
     20040016030 20100088783  20080263725
     20040010824 20100088782  20080229453
     20040010823 20100071093  20080229452
     20030237111 20100071091  20080209588
     20030233679 20100043100  20080201799
     20030232757 20100037350  20080189806
     20030195336 20100031392  20080178356
     20030192072 20100011466  20080178355
     20030182682 20100011465  20080172759
     20030182678 20100005542  20080168585
     20030172416 20090320158  20080168578
     20030154524 20090320157  20080168577
     20030131375 20090282580  20080163398
     20030119158 20090276921  20080127369
     20030101482 20090249514  20080120748
     20030097672 20090241230  20080076179
     20030068335 20090241227  20080072350
     20030056243 20090235389  20080072347
     20030005491 20090217417  20080052794
     20020152496 20090217406  20080052792
     20100293665 20090203094  20080050820
     20100287665 20090188004  20080022427
     20100287641 20090186762  20080005808
     20100269219 20090172834  20070294783
     20100263088 20090170173  20070261132
     20100251416 20090165173  20070226842
     20100229259 20090165170  20070209092
     20100227924 20090158461  20070209087
     20100205690 20090158454  20070199103
     20100205689 20090144859  20070174927
     20100199382 20090138987  20070118920
     20100199380 20090113572  20070111311
     20100199379 20090100541  20070033670
     20100192254 20090100540  20070022497
     20100190794 20090089896  20060206961
                      59

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20060179515 20100192253  20090288217
     20060174373 20100190707  20090282586
     20060168684 20100186116  20090275473
     20060162021 20100186115  20090265818
     20060137043 20100186113  20090265802
     20060112452 20100175150  20090264351
     20060064784 20100167403  20090264290
     20060037102 20100162440  20090260106
     20060010514 20100162425  20090260105
     20050241020 20100162424  20090235392
     20040194163 20100154083  20090229018
     20100293670 20100132072  20090227013
     20100287669 20100132070  20090222954
     20100287662 20100122367  20090222943
     20100287656 20100115667  20090210970
     20100287655 20100115662  20090205078
     20100285591 20100115661  20090205067
     20100281579 20100100985  20090205065
     20100281578 20100100981  20090192117
     20100281570 20100095401  20090192116
     20100281569 20100088785  20090188008
     20100269229 20100077508  20090188003
     20100269228 20100077507  20090183285
     20100269221 20100071087  20090183279
     20100269218 20100058495  20090183278
     20100269194 20100050293  20090183277
     20100269193 20100037347  20090183276
     20100269189 20100031391  20090178159
     20100269188 20100029725  20090172841
     20100269187 20100017915  20090165177
     20100269186 20100017908  20090165174
     20100269185 20100017907  20090158471
     20100242138 20100017906  20090158459
     20100242137 20100017905  20090158458
     20100242131 20090328252  20090151022
     20100236146 20090325804  20090151017
     20100235944 20090320163  20090144843
     20100235939 20090320162  20090138986
     20100229257 20090320156  20090137395
     20100223695 20090320155  20090136646
     20100221238 20090313722  20090133161
     20100218276 20090313721  20090119804
     20100212049 20090307800  20090119799
     20100199383 20090307797  20090113570
     20100192263 20090300789  20090106860
     20100192256 20090293147  20090106859
     20100192255 20090293141  20090106857
                      60

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20090094713 20080256666  20080078004
     20090094712 20080244767  20080072346
     20090089897 20080244766  20080072345
     20090089895 20080244765  20080072344
     20090081354 20080241927  20080072343
     20090077691 20080235827  20080060099
     20090077690 20080234130  20080057564
     20090077689 20080227091  20080051288
     20090077688 20080222753  20080047031
     20090069182 20080216200  20080040825
     20090055966 20080216191  20080040824
     20090055961 20080209582  20080034652
     20090049571 20080200415  20080034448
     20090049570 20080189810  20080034447
     20090049569 20080178353  20080022426
     20090038034 20080178350  20080020968
     20090038028 20080178325  20080020967
     20090038027 20080178323  20080020966
     20090038026 20080172762  20080020123
     20090036308 20080171321  20080016596
     20090035765 20080168581  20080016595
     20090031449 20080163402  20080016594
     20090031448 20080163401  20070300323
     20090025103 20080163400  20070294781
     20090025102 20080141392  20070289030
     20090007302 20080134362  20070283461
     20090005306 20080134361  20070277256
     20090000188 20080127377  20070274972
     20090000187 20080127375  20070271628
     20080320617 20080124804  20070266462
     20080320613 20080124797  20070266458
     20080313777 20080124796  20070261136
     20080313770 20080120747  20070256198
     20080305238 20080120746  20070250959
     20080299658 20080120745  20070245430
     20080286434 20080120744  20070245429
     20080280018 20080120743  20070245428
     20080280017 20080120742  20070245427
     20080280016 20080120741  20070245425
     20080280015 20080115241  20070240238
     20080280014 20080109925  20070238179
     20080280013 20080109924  20070234444
     20080280012 20080108072  20070234443
     20080280011 20080090294  20070231905
     20080274261 20080090293  20070226837
     20080274260 20080086783  20070226836
     20080271198 20080083043  20070226835
                      61

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20070226834 20070136866  20070107091
     20070226833 20070136865  20070107090
     20070226832 20070136864  20070107089
     20070226831 20070136863  20070107088
     20070220627 20070136862  20070107084
     20070220626 20070136861  20070094747
     20070214514 20070136860  20070089200
     20070199105 20070136859  20070089181
     20070192899 20070136858  20070079402
     20070192897 20070136857  20070079397
     20070180578 20070136856  20070079393
     20070180577 20070136855  20070074311
     20070180576 20070136854  20070074303
     20070169227 20070136853  20070061926
     20070169226 20070136852  20070044180
     20070169225 20070136851  20070016980
     20070169220 20070136850  20070011771
     20070162999 20070136849  20070006350
     20070157342 20070136848  20060294625
     20070157341 20070136847  20060294624
     20070157335 20070136846  20060293913
     20070150980 20070136845  20060288453
     20070150979 20070136844  20060288448
     20070143880 20070136843  20060288440
     20070136891 20070136842  20060282918
     20070136888 20070136838  20060281910
     20070136887 20070130653  20060272058
     20070136886 20070130652  20060272057
     20070136885 20070130651  20060272055
     20070136884 20070130650  20060272054
     20070136883 20070130649  20060272046
     20070136882 20070130648  20060260006
     20070136881 20070130647  20060242733
     20070136880 20070130646  20060225161
     20070136879 20070130642  20060225160
     20070136878 20070118919  20060225152
     20070136877 20070107102  20060225151
     20070136876 20070107101  20060223102
     20070136875 20070107100  20060212971
     20070136874 20070107099  20060212966
     20070136873 20070107098  20060212964
     20070136872 20070107097  20060206967
     20070136871 20070107096  20060200874
     20070136870 20070107095  20060195954
     20070136869 20070107094  20060195953
     20070136868 20070107093  20060195937
     20070136867 20070107092  20060185039
                      62

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20060174382 20060107413  20060107365
     20060174381 20060107412  20060107364
     20060168692 20060107411  20060107363
     20060162030 20060107410  20060107362
     20060162027 20060107409  20060107361
     20060162015 20060107408  20060107360
     20060162009 20060107407  20060107359
     20060156439 20060107406  20060107358
     20060150277 20060107405  20060107357
     20060150275 20060107404  20060107356
     20060150274 20060107403  20060107355
     20060143744 20060107402  20060107354
     20060143743 20060107401  20060107347
     20060143733 20060107400  20060101546
     20060143728 20060107399  20060095991
     20060137035 20060107398  20060095990
     20060137033 20060107397  20060090225
     20060130190 20060107396  20060070143
     20060130189 20060107395  20060070139
     20060130188 20060107394  20060064789
     20060130187 20060107393  20060064786
     20060130184 20060107391  20060064779
     20060112465 20060107390  20060064773
     20060112464 20060107389  20060037109
     20060112463 20060107388  20060037095
     20060112462 20060107387  20060031962
     20060112461 20060107386  20060026710
     20060112460 20060107385  20060026709
     20060112459 20060107384  20060026708
     20060112458 20060107383  20060026707
     20060112457 20060107382  20060021082
     20060112456 20060107381  20060015968
     20060112444 20060107380  20060010534
     20060107427 20060107379  20060005287
     20060107426 20060107378  20060005275
     20060107425 20060107377  20060005274
     20060107424 20060107376  20060005269
     20060107423 20060107375  20050289670
     20060107422 20060107374  20050283862
     20060107421 20060107373  20050283314
     20060107420 20060107372  20050278812
     20060107419 20060107371  20050278811
     20060107418 20060107370  20050278810
     20060107417 20060107369  20050278805
     20060107416 20060107368  20050278803
     20060107415 20060107367  20050273889
     20060107414 20060107366  20050273881
                      63

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20050273879 20050150020  20050120404
     20050257298 20050150019  20050114955
     20050257289 20050150018  20050114954
     20050246798 20050150017  20050114953
     20050246796 20050144690  20050114952
     20050235383 20050144689  20050114951
     20050229483 20050144688  20050114950
     20050229274 20050144687  20050114949
     20050229271 20050144686  20050114948
     20050223443 20050144685  20050114947
     20050223439 20050144683  20050114946
     20050223432 20050144682  20050114945
     20050223426 20050144681  20050114944
     20050216977 20050138697  20050114943
     20050216974 20050138696  20050114942
     20050216968 20050138695  20050114941
     20050210551 20050138686  20050114940
     20050210550 20050132453  20050114939
     20050204418 20050132452  20050114938
     20050202486 20050132451  20050114937
     20050198706 20050132450  20050114936
     20050198702 20050125866  20050114935
     20050188441 20050120443  20050114934
     20050188440 20050120442  20050114933
     20050188439 20050120441  20050114932
     20050188437 20050120440  20050114931
     20050177898 20050120439  20050114930
     20050177897 20050120438  20050108796
     20050177892 20050120437  20050108795
     20050172369 20050120436  20050108794
     20050172368 20050120435  20050102717
     20050172367 20050120434  20050097636
     20050166291 20050120433  20050097634
     20050166287 20050120432  20050097633
     20050166286 20050120431  20050081265
     20050166284 20050120430  20050076404
     20050160506 20050120429  20050071901
     20050160505 20050120428  20050070697
     20050160496 20050120427  20050050590
     20050160494 20050120426  20050039226
     20050160488 20050120425  20050034193
     20050155118 20050120424  20050028231
     20050155102 20050120423  20050010975
     20050150025 20050120422  20040248304
     20050150023 20050120421  20040237147
     20050150022 20050120420  20040231017
     20050150021 20050120419  20040216192
                      64

WO 2012/112529               PCT/US2012/025023
     20040210963 20040172707  20030200557
     20040210960 20040172706  20030167532
     20040210043 20040172705  20030167530
     20040205864 20040172704  20030167528
     20040205863 20040172703  20030167506
     20040199965 20040172702  20030167504
     20040199960 20040172701  20030166855
     20040199959 20040172700  20030163840
     20040194171 20040172699  20030163839
     20040194170 20040172698  20030163838
     20040194169 20040172697  20030159185
     20040194168 20040172696  20030150016
     20040194167 20040172695  20030150014
     20040187179 20040172694  20030140381
     20040181836 20040172693  20030140369
     20040181835 20040172692  20030140368
     20040181833 20040172691  20030131381
     20040181832 20040172668  20030110528
     20040181824 20040168212  20030101484
     20040180436 20040166563  20030101483
     20040177420 20040154059  20030097689
     20040177419 20040148654  20030097680
     20040177418 20040148652  20030088890
     20040177417 20040143871  20030084486
     20040177416 20040143870  20030084476
     20040177415 20040123345  20030079251
     20040177414 20040122592  20030079247
     20040177413 20040118754  20030073239
     20040177412 20040111761  20030041348
     20040177411 20040098769  20030033632
     20040177410 20040098760  20030033629
     20040177409 20040083500  20030028921
     20040177408 20040082770  20030028920
     20040177407 20040073971  20030017566
     20040177406 20040068767  20030009782
     20040172728 20040064856  20030005482
     20040172727 20040049804  20020166146
     20040172726 20040040056  20020166143
     20040172725 20040025206  20020166141
     20040172724 20040019931  20020162142
     20040172723 20040005713  20020148007
     20040172722 20030226178  20020144307
     20040172721 20030226167  20020124284
     20040172711 20030221224  20020108149
     20040172710 20030217387  20020083493
     20040172709 20030213016  20020078475
     20040172708 20030213014  20020069428
                      65

WO 2012/112529      PCT/US2012/025023
     20020029392
     20020004940
     20010023501
     20100281574
     20100257638
     20100235943
     20100169999
     20100168452
     20100041610
     20100037358
     20100004177
     20090320159
     20090203612
     20090158473
     20090093366
     20090029863
     20090023782
     20080295195
     20080260933
     20080178323
     20080085856
     20080058248
     20070220629
     20070143876
     20060168683
     20060070139
     20060037095
     20050216969
     20050039226
     20040194164
                 66

 WO 2012/112529                                                              PCT/US2012/025023
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1. A method of making a product comprising:
        physically treating a feedstock obtained at least in part from a plant that has been
modified with respect to a wild type variety of the plant.
        2. The method of claim 1wherein the feedstock comprises lignocellulosic or
cellulosic material.
        3. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the plant has been genetically modified.
        4. The method of any of the above claims wherein the plant comprises
recombinant DNA.
        5. The method of any of the above claims wherein the plant comprises one or
more recombinant genes.
        6. The method of any of the above claims wherein the plant expresses a
recombinant protein.
        7. The method of any of the above claims wherein the plant expresses one or more
recombinant materials.
        8. The method of claim 7 wherein the recombinant material is a polymer or a
macromolecule.
        9. The method of any of the above claims further comprising obtaining from the
feedstock a material selected from the group consisting of pharmaceuticals,
nutriceuticals, proteins, fats, vitamins, oils, fiber, minerals, sugars, carbohydrates and
alcohols.
                                                 67

 WO 2012/112529                                                        PCT/US2012/025023
        10. The method of any of the above claims further comprising treating the
feedstock with an organism and/or enzyme to produce a product.
        11. The method of claim 10 wherein the product comprises a sugar.
        12. The method of any of the above claims wherein the physical treatment
comprises irradiation of the feedstock.
        13. The method of claim 12 further comprising utilizing the irradiated feedstock
as an animal feed.
        14. The method of claim 12 wherein irradiating is performed using one or more
electron beam devices.
        15. The method of claim 12 wherein irradiating comprises applying a total dose
of from about 5 Mrad to about 50 Mrad of radiation to the feedstock.
        16. The method of any of the above claims wherein the feedstock comprises a
crop residue.
        17. The method of claim 16 wherein the feedstock comprises corn cobs and/or
corn stover.
        18. The method of claim 16 wherein the feedstock comprises wheat straw.
        19. The method of any of the above claims wherein the plant comprises a
genetically modified corn or soybean plant.
        20. The method of claim 11 further comprising fermenting the sugar.
                                            68

 WO 2012/112529                                                             PCT/US2012/025023
        21. The method of any of the above claims wherein the plant has been modified
with a modification selected from the group consisting of enhancement of resistance to
insects, fungal diseases, and other pests and disease-causing agents; increased tolerance
to herbicides; increased drought resistance; extended temperature range; enhanced
tolerance to poor soil; enhanced stability or shelf-life; greater yield; larger fruit size;
stronger stalks; enhanced shatter resistance; reduced time to crop maturity; more uniform
germination times; higher or modified starch production; enhanced nutrient production,;
modified lignin content; enhanced cellulose, hemicellulose and/or lignin degradation;;
reduced recalcitrance and enhanced phytate metabolism.
        22. The method of any of the above claims wherein the plant is a genetically
modified alfalfa, potato corn, wheat, beet, cotton, rapeseed, rice, or sugarcane plant.
        23. A product comprising sugar from a feedstock obtained at least in part from a
plant that has been modified with respect to a wild type variety of the plant.
        24. A product comprising an irradiated feedstock obtained at least in part from a
plant that has been modified with respect to a wild type variety of the plant.
        25. The product of claim 24 further comprising a microorganism and/or an
enzyme.
        26. The product of claim 24 or 25 further comprising a liquid medium.
        27. A product comprising a physically treated cellulosic or lignocellulosic
feedstock obtained at least in part from a plant that has been modified with respect to a
wild type variety of the plant.
                                              69

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
