  ABSTRACT
          There are provided plants of Papaversomniferum for the production of codeine,
  methods for providing the plants, and poppy straw, concentrate of poppy straw (CPS),
5 latex, opium and codeine from the plants.

FIGURE 1
  .3.5
    32.0
  315
    0.5
    0.0  O
                Lim Ethebaine (%w/w)
           Line     Bcdeine (%W/W)
FIGURE 2

                  -1
            AUSTRALIA
          PatentsAct 1990 (Cth)
COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
              APPLICANT
   TASMANIAN ALKALOIDS PTY LIMITED
                 TITLE
               A PLANT

                                                 -2
                                            A PLANT
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5          The present invention relates to plants of Papaversomniferum for the
   production of codeine, and to poppy straw and latex from the plants.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10          Codeine is an opiate used for its analgesic, antitussive and antidiarrheal
   properties. It is by far the most widely used opiate in the world and very likely the
   most commonly used drug overall according to numerous reports over the years by
   organizations such as the World Health Organization.
                                     CH 30
                                              0
                                                                N CH3
                                                          H
                                        HO
15                                            Codeine
            Codeine is a natural alkaloid of the opium poppy plant Papaversomniferum L.
   but normally constitutes only a minor fraction of the total alkaloids e.g., typically only
   5-20% of the level of morphine. While codeine can be extracted from opium and
20 poppy straw, the demand for codeine far exceeds the current available natural supply so
   most of the codeine currently being manufactured (85-90 per cent) is obtained from
   morphine through the process of O-methylation. The major part of the world's licit
   morphine production is to support the manufacture of codeine.
            Codeine is used to manufacture Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) such
25 as codeine phosphate, codeine sulfate, codeine hydrochloride and codeine base, which
   are in turn is used to manufacture e.g., high-volume, over-the-counter, dosage forms for
   the relief of pain (analgesics) and cough (antitussives). Codeine is also the starting

                                                -3
   material and prototype of a large class of mainly mild to moderately strong opioids
   such as dihydrocodeine and hydrocodone and its derivatives such as nicocodeine and
   oxycodone. Thus catalytic hydrogenation of codeine yields dihydrocodeine (used to
   manufacture APIs such as dihydrocodeine tartrate) that can be converted by Oppenauer
 5 oxidation to dihydrocodeinone (hydrocodone, used to manufacture APIs such as
   hydrocodone bitartrate).
           The industrial-scale methylation of morphine, at the phenolic hydroxyl group at
   position 3, to give codeine is usually conducted using quaternary ammonium
   methylating agents, typically trimethylphenylammonium chloride, in the presence of
10 various bases such as alkali hydroxides, alkoxides, or carbonates/bicarbonates. Use of
   the quaternary ammonium methylating agent greatly diminishes the competing
   methylation of the alkaloid tertiary amine function which is a major problem with other
   methylating agents such as methyl halides or dimethyl sulfate, where the formation of
   the alkaloid quaternary salts causes loss of yield and the generation of other impurities
15 such as alpha- and beta-codimethine via the Hofmann elimination reaction. However
   this solution to the quaternisation problem comes at the cost of generating the
   objectionally-odiferous and toxic byproduct N,N-dimethylaniline (DMA) which must
   be completely removed from the product and imposes waste disposal, occupational
   health and safety (OHS) and environmental concerns.
20         Most methylation procedures using trimethylphenylammonium reagents in
   essence involve the exposure of the trimethylammonium morphinate ion pair to high
   temperatures (exceeding 90 deg C) in a non-polar, water-immiscible solvent such as
   toluene or xylene, where the ion pair rapidly collapses to codeine and DMA. The
   necessity for such solvents creates further OHS and environmental burdens on the
25 manufacture and imposes costs associated with solvent recovery and purification.
   Under the vigorous conditions necessary, it is imperative that the stoichiometry of the
   reagents be carefully controlled to avoid on the one hand, undermethylation, leaving
   too much unreacted morphine, or on the other hand overmethylation, leading to
   formation of codeine-O(6)-methyl ether ("methylcodeine"). Both situations lead to
30 yield losses both directly, through lower codeine formation, and indirectly through
   further codeine losses attending the removal of the unreacted morphine or the
   methycodeine impurities. Morphine is relatively easy to remove e.g., by washing a

                                                -4
   toluene solution of the codeine with aqueous alkali but this process also sacrifices some
   codeine to the washes, while methylcodeine is difficult to remove and may require
   extensive processing to achieve desired limits. Another problematic impurity created
   by the synthesis from morphine is dimethylpseudomorphine, created by methylation of
 5 a common impurity in Concentrate of Poppy Straw Morphine (CPS-M),
   pseudomorphine (2,2'-bismorphine). Dimethylpseudomorphine is particularly difficult
   to remove from codeine and imposes high yield losses due to the additional processing
   required.
            The manufacture of codeine from morphine requires extensive processing at
10 some stage to remove colour bodies originating either in opium or in the CPS-M); in
   the latter case the colour bodies derive from the initial extraction process that produces
   morphine from poppy straw. The extraction conditions required to recover morphine
   from poppy straw are such that there is considerable, unavoidable extraction of
   coloured materials from the poppy and the CPS-M may typically have several per cent
15 of non-alkaloid material. With opium as input, the raw material is grossly impure (e.g.,
   5-24 % morphine) and it is mandatory to purify and separate the morphine from the
   other alkaloids and colour bodies before input to codeine manufacture, while with CPS
   M, some manufacturers upgrade the morphine to technical quality before manufacture
   of codeine, while others enter the material directly into the methylation and then
20 process to remove colour post-methylation. However, both approaches have
   considerable cost penalties associated with the additional processing, inevitable yield
   losses, capacity and opportunity costs.
            Codeine is more soluble than morphine in virtually all common media and is
   consequently easier to extract from poppies and easier to purify. Hence, the yield,
25 quality and cost of natural codeine obtained from a codeine poppy are all improved
   relative to synthetic codeine obtained from natural morphine.
            Alkaloids are extracted from the poppy capsules of Papaversomniferum by two
   commercial methods. In one method, the immature capsule is cut and the latex
   collected from the wound. The air-dried latex is opium which, according to the Merck
30 Index, 11th Edition, contains alkaloids in the amounts shown in Table I. In the second
   method, the mature poppy capsules and the poppy capsule stems are collected, and
   threshed to remove the seeds and form a straw. When necessary, the straw is dried to a

                                                 -5
   water content below 16%. Solvent or water extraction is employed to remove the
   alkaloids from the straw.
           However, the yield of codeine is confounded with that of other alkaloids and a
   poppy producing a higher content of codeine relative to impurity alkaloids such as e.g.,
 5 thebaine and oripavine would enable a simpler extraction/purification process, resulting
   in higher yields, better quality and throughput and lower costs.
           Where solvent or water or super critical fluid, such as C0 2 , extraction is
   employed to remove the alkaloids from the straw, such method, as practiced, involves
   the production of "Concentrate of Poppy Straw". Concentrate of Poppy Straw (or
10 "CPS") is described as "The material arising when poppy straw has entered into a
   process for the concentration of its alkaloids, when such material is made available in
   trade," (Multilingual dictionary of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances under
   international control, United Nations, New York, 1983). Not inconsistent with the
   foregoing description, Concentrate of Poppy Straw is described as "the crude extract of
15 poppy straw in either liquid, solid or powder form which contains the phenanthrene
   alkaloids of the opium poppy, 45 U. S. Federal Register 77466, Nov. 24, 1980". When
   in liquid form, the liquid is preferably concentrated before entering into commerce.
   The generally preferred Concentrate of Poppy Straw is the powder form which results
   from removing the solvent or water following extraction of the poppy straw.
20 According to the United Nations publication 'Narcotic Drugs:Estimated World
   Requirementsfor 2007; Statisticsfor 2005 (E/INCB/2006/2)', "Concentrate of Poppy
   Straw is the dried residue obtained through the extraction of alkaloids from poppy
   straw. Until the second half of the 1990s, only concentrate of poppy straw containing
   morphine as the main alkaloid was manufactured. Since then, concentrate of poppy
25 straw containing mainly thebaine or oripavine has started to be manufactured."
           Some relatively small quantities of CPS codeine are produced in a few countries
   as a by-product of CPS morphine extraction. These quantities are not significant in
   world trade.
           The production of codeine by the cultivation of non-morphine-containing
30 poppies greatly decreases the risk the potential for diversion and abuse of morphine.
   Papaversomniferum poppies grown in the field and which yield a poppy straw
   containing codeine as the predominant alkaloid and little or no morphine are described

                                                 -6
   in International Patent Publication No. WO 2009/143574 in the name of Tasmanian
   Alkaloids Pty Ltd. The codeine content in the straw of those poppies is at least 40% by
   weight or greater of the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and
   oripavine, and plants are described that produce straw containing codeine in an amount
 5 up to 90% by weight or greater of the above noted alkaloid combination with the
   absolute codeine content of the straw ranging from about 0.8% to about 4.2% on a dry
   weight basis of the straw. The thebaine content of the straw is also substantially
   reduced.
           Whilst the Papaversomniferum plants of WO 2009/143574 represent a major
10 advance in the production of codeine, further reducing the amount of thebaine and/or
   other confounding alkaloids present in the poppy straw, latex and opium from such
   "codeine plants" would markedly increase the efficiency of codeine extraction and the
   yield of codeine obtained.
15 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to the provision of plants of Papaversomniferum
   having a high codeine chemotype for the production of codeine wherein absolute
   codeine content is increased and/or wherein the amount of at least thebaine as a
20 confounding alkaloid is reduced relative to codeine, compared to the plants from which
   they were derived. By reducing the level of at least thebaine in poppy straw and/or
   latex relative to codeine the efficiency with which codeine is extracted from the poppy
   straw and latex (or concentrate of poppy straw or opium) can be increased. In
   particularly preferred embodiments, the parent plant, from which a plant embodied by
25 the invention is derived, is a high codeine producing Papaversomniferum of the type
   described in WO 2009/143574. That an increase in absolute codeine content and a
   decrease in thebaine content relative to codeine can be obtained in such plants is
   surprising given the relative level of thebaine in those plants was already low. Further,
   as thebaine is an intermediate compound in the synthesis of codeine in Papaver
30 somniferum, it would always be expected to be present in their poppy straw or latex.
   Hence, a reduction in the thebaine content relative to codeine together with an increase
   in absolute codeine content in plants described herein indicates that the efficiency with

                                                  -7
   which codeine is synthesized in the plants is increased and/or that plant regulatory
   mechanism(s) have been modified compared to the parent plant(s).
           In providing the invention, the inventors have also found that particularly high
   levels of codeine and/or codeine relative to thebaine can be provided by plants
 5 embodied by the invention having a substantially lighter leaf colour than Papaver
   somniferum with a codeine chemotype conventionally grown for the codeine
   production. Despite the substantially lighter leaf colour the plants were found to
   exhibit good vigour and to be suitable for use as a field crop. This is also surprising as
   such plants would normally be expected to have low vigour, as light leaf colour is
10 suggestive of a serious defect such as low leaf chlorophyll or a severe nutrient
   deficiency, which would manifest as poor growth rates with consequential low capsule
   number, poor straw and alkaloid content and/or yield. Typically, when seeking to
   develop high alkaloid producing Papaversomniferum, such plants would be discarded
   at an early stage of the program once the lightness of the leaf colour had become
15 apparent. However, in contradiction to this, the inventors cultivated the plants to
   maturity and further investigated their alkaloid profile leading to the unexpected
   finding that the plants can nevertheless exhibit excellent codeine content with relatively
   low thebaine contamination despite the light leaf colour of the plants. Thus, in at least
   some embodiments of the invention, the light leaf colour may act as a biomarker for
20 one or more of increased codeine content in poppy straw and/or poppy capsule latex,
   and increased codeine content relative to at least thebaine in the poppy straw or
   latex/opium.
           In particular, in an aspect of the invention there is provided isolated mutated
   plant of Papaversomniferum derived from a parent plant and having a stably heritable
25 codeine chemotype characterised by higher codeine content by weight than a combined
   morphine and thebaine content, or a descendent plant thereof, wherein the codeine
   content of the mutated plant is such that upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules or
   alternatively, upon the drying of latex from its immature poppy capsules, the plant will
   yield a poppy straw or opium having a higher codeine content by weight and a lower
30 thebaine to codeine ratio than the parent plant.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for producing a
   plant of Papaversomniferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype

                                                 -8
   characterised by higher codeine content than morphine and thebaine content, or a
   descendent plant thereof, the method comprising the steps of:
           a)      exposing at least one poppy seed of a Papaversomniferum parent plant
   to a mutagenizing agent, the parent plant being a plant which upon the harvesting of its
 5 poppy capsules will yield a poppy straw having codeine constituting about 40% by
   weight or greater of an alkaloid combination comprising morphine, codeine, thebaine
   and oripavine or alternatively, which upon the drying of latex from its immature poppy
   capsules will yield an opium having codeine constituting about 40% by weight or
   greater of the alkaloid combination;
10         b)      growing the at least one poppy seed exposed to the mutagenizing agent
   to produce one or more further plants, optionally through one or more self-fertilised
   generations; and
           c)      providing a plant identified from the one or more plants in step b) to be a
   plant which upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules or alternatively, which upon the
15 drying of latex from its immature poppy capsules, will yield a poppy straw or opium
   having a higher absolute codeine content and a lower thebaine to codeine ratio, than the
   poppy straw or opium of the parent plant.
           In another aspect of the invention there is a method for providing increased
   codeine content in poppy straw or latex of a plant of Papaversomniferum relative to at
20 least thebaine in the poppy straw or latex, the method comprising the steps of:
           a)      providing at least one poppy seed of a Papaversomniferum parent plant,
   the parent plant being a plant which upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules will yield
   a poppy straw having codeine constituting about 40% by weight or greater of an
   alkaloid combination comprising morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine or
25 alternatively, which upon the drying of latex from its immature poppy capsules will
   yield an opium having codeine constituting about 40% by weight or greater of the
   alkaloid combination;
           b)      exposing the at least one poppy seed to a mutagenzing agent;
           c)      growing the at least one poppy seed exposed to the mutagenizing agent
30 to produce one or more further plants, optionally through one or more self-fertilised
   generations; and

                                                  -9
            d)      providing a plant identified from the one or more further plants
   produced in step c) to be a plant which upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules or
   alternatively, which upon the drying of latex from its immature poppy capsules, will
   yield a poppy straw or opium having a higher absolute codeine content by weight and a
 5 lower thebaine to codeine ratio, than the straw or opium of the parent plant.
            Typically, the parent plant has a blockage in an alkaloid synthesis pathway
   inhibiting or preventing the conversion of thebaine to oripavine in the parent plant.
   Typically also, the blockage in the alkaloid synthesis pathway is stably inherited in a
   plant embodied by the invention.
10          Typically, the parent plant contains substantially no oripavine in the poppy
   straw or opium from the plant. Most typically, there is substantially no morphine and
   substantially no oripavine in the alkaloid combination of the parent plant utilised in a
   method embodied by the invention.
            Likewise, in plants embodied by the invention, there is typically substantially
15 no morphine in the poppy straw of the plant and most usually, substantially no
   morphine and substantially no oripavine in the straw.
            In another aspect of the invention there is provided a plant of Papaver
   somniferum, wherein the plant is a plant of NCIMB 42630, or a descendent plant
   thereof.
20          In another aspect of the invention there is provided a plant of Papaver
   somniferum produced by a method embodied by the invention, or a descendent plant
   thereof.
            In at least some embodiments a plant in accordance with the invention will have
   a trait for leaf colour whereby the leaves of the plant have a colour that is visually
25 lighter relative to the leaves of the parent plant.
            Typically, the colour of the leaves of these plants will be in the green-yellow
   colour spectrum and have a dominant wavelength value of from about 561nm or
   greater. Most typically, the dominant wavelength value will be in a range of from
   about 561nm to about 568nm.
30          Typically, the colour of the leaves of the parent plant will also be in the green
   yellow colour spectrum.

                                                 -10
           Typically, the straw or opium of a plant embodied by the invention will have a
   thebaine content relative to codeine of about 25% or less on a w/w basis.
           Typically, the straw or opium of a plant embodied by the invention will have a
   codeine content of about 2.5% or greater on a w/w basis.
 5         Typically, there is substantially no morphine or oripavine in the poppy straw or
   opium of a plant embodied by the invention.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided a plant of Papaver
   somniferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype characterised by a higher
   codeine content by weight than a combined morphine and thebaine content, or a
10 descendent plant thereof, wherein the codeine chemotype of the plant is such that upon
   the harvesting of its poppy capsules or alternatively, upon the drying of latex from its
   immature poppy capsules, the plant will yield a poppy straw or opium having a codeine
   content by weight of about 2.5% w/w or greater and a thebaine to codeine ratio of about
   25% w/w or less, and wherein the plant has a trait for leaf colour whereby the leaves of
15 the plant are of a colour having a dominant wavelength in a range of from about 561nm
   to about 568nm.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided a plant of Papaver
   somniferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype characterised by a higher
   codeine content by weight than a combined morphine and thebaine content, or a
20 descendent plant thereof, wherein the codeine chemotype of the plant is such that upon
   the harvesting of its poppy capsules or alternatively, upon the drying of latex from its
   immature poppy capsules, the plant will yield a poppy straw or opium having a
   thebaine to codeine ratio of about 25% w/w or less, and wherein the plant has a trait for
   leaf colour whereby the leaves of the plant are of a colour having a dominant
25 wavelength in a range of from about 561nm to about 568nm.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for the production
   of codeine which comprises the steps of: a) harvesting poppy capsules of a plant
   embodied by the invention to produce a poppy straw; and b) extracting the codeine
   from the poppy straw.
30         In still another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for the
   production of codeine which comprises the steps of: a) collecting and drying the latex

                                                  -11
   of the immature poppy capsules of a plant embodied by the invention to produce
   opium; and b) extracting the codeine from the opium.
           In another aspect there is provided a plant of Papaversomniferum produced by
   a method embodied by the invention, or a descendent plant thereof.
 5         In another aspect there is provided a stand of plants embodied by the invention.
           In another aspect there is provided a poppy straw obtained from a plant
   embodied by the invention, or from a descendent plant thereof.
           In another aspect there is provided a concentrate of poppy straw being a
   concentrate of poppy straw of a plant embodied by the invention, or from a descendent
10 plant thereof.
           In another aspect there is provided a latex for the extraction of codeine being a
   latex from a plant embodied by the invention, or from a descendent plant thereof.
           In another aspect there is provided an opium for the extraction of codeine being
   an opium of a plant embodied by the invention, or of a descendent plant thereof.
15         In another aspect there is provided a codeine extracted from the poppy straw,
   concentrate of poppy straw, latex or opium embodied by the invention.
           In still further aspects there is provided a plant cell or plant root of a plant
   embodied by the invention, or of a descendent plant thereof.
           One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the total alkaloid content in
20 the poppy straw, concentrate of poppy straw, latex or opium in embodiments of the
   present invention will total (but will not exceed) 100%.
           Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
   element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of
25 any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers, integers or steps.
           Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like that has
   been included in this specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context for the
   invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form part
   of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the
30 invention as it existed in Australia or elsewhere before the priority date of this
   application.

                                                -12
           The features and advantages of the invention will become further apparent from
   the following detailed description of embodiments thereof together with the
   accompanying drawings.
 5 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCOMPANYING DRAWINGS
           Figure 1 is a graph showing codeine and thebaine content in the mature capsules
   of 20 M3 Papaversomniferum mutant plant lines in a field trial (Hagley, Tasmania,
   Australia) conducted during the 2012/13 poppy growing season. The lines PW08
10 2308, PW10-0149 and PW1 1-4063 are 'Tasman' Papaversomniferum exhibiting a
   codeine chemotype. The EM4-0045 line (denoted by an asterix*) exhibited pale, light
   green leaves compared to the parent line PW08-2308 from which it was derived.
           Figure 2 is a photograph showing 'Tasman' M3 mutant line EM4-0045 (middle
   foreground) during a disease resistance screening field trial (Hagley, Tasmania,
15 Australia) conducted during the 2012/13 poppy growing season. The EM4-0045 line
   exhibited pale, light-green leaves compared to the parent 'Tasman' line (PW08-2308)
   from whit it was derived and other M3 mutant Papaversomniferum 'Tasman' lines in
   surrounding plots, and was found to have exceptionally high codeine and low thebaine
   content in its mature capsules.
20
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS OF THE
   INVENTION
           Codeine is an intermediate in the morphine biosynthesis pathway in Papaver
25 somniferum. The morphine biosynthesis pathway is highly complex involving multiple
   alkaloid intermediates and enzymatic steps, and is but one of a number of pathways
   present in Papaversomniferum involving the synthesis of benzylisoquinoline alkaloids
   such as codeine and morphine. Whilst substantial progress has been made in
   elucidating the steps and identifying the intermediate alkaloids involved in these
30 pathways, their regulation remains poorly understood as a result of the interplay of
   branching of the pathways combined with the involvement of as yet unraveled
   feedback and homeostatic mechanisms. As a result, modification of a step in these

                                                  -13
   pathways can have unpredictable effects on the synthesis of other intermediates in the
   same or branching pathways. This is further complicated by factors such as the
   potential for an enzyme to have a role in the synthesis of more than one alkaloid
   intermediate and, for example, the tissue-specific synthesis of alkaloids. Consequently,
 5 the effect of changes introduced into alkaloid synthesis pathways of Papaver
   somniferum can have significant and unpredictable effects. Nevertheless, in providing
   the present invention the inventors have found that thebaine content can be reduced
   relative to codeine in Papaversomniferum plants which produce codeine as the
   predominant or sole alkaloid in the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine,
10 thebaine and oripavine, even when the amount of thebaine relative to codeine in the
   parent plant is already low.
            Persons skilled in the art will be able to readily grow plants of Papaver
   somniferum embodied by the invention and reproduce them, collect latex or produce
   poppy straw from them, and purify codeine from the latex (or opium) or the straw as
15 described herein.
            Seed of an example of a plant of Papaversomniferum (PW08-2308) which can
   be utilized as the parent plant in a method embodied by the invention was deposited
   under the Budapest Treaty with the National Collection of Industrial, Food and Marine
   Bacteria (NCIMB Ltd, Ferguson Building, Craibstone Estate, Bucksburn, Aberdeeen
20 AB21 9YA, Scotland, United Kingdom), on 24 August 2016, under Accession No.
   NCIMB 42631. Further such plants and methods for producing them are described in
   International Patent Publication No. WO 2009/143574 in the name of Tasmanian
   Alkaloids Pty Limited, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by cross
   reference.
25          As one enablement of the present invention, seed of a plant of Papaver
   somniferum (EM4-0045) embodied by the invention was deposited under the Budapest
   Treaty with the National Collection of Industrial, Food and Marine Bacteria (NCIMB
   Ltd, Ferguson Building, Craibstone Estate, Bucksburn, Aberdeeen AB21 9YA,
   Scotland, United Kingdom), on 24 August 2016, under Accession No. NCIMB 42630.
30          The availability of these seeds is not to be construed as a license to practice this
   invention in contravention of rights granted under the authority of any government in
   accordance with its patent or breeder's rights laws.

                                               -14
           In a particularly preferred embodiment, a plant embodied by the invention can
   be provided by subjecting seed a Papaversomniferum parent plant as described herein
   to mutagenesis. The production of mutagenized seed is well known in the art.
   Methods of seed mutagenesis as well as mutagens suitable for use in these methods,
 5 such as, ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS), are described in the Manual on Mutation
   Breeding, 2nd ed., I.A.E.A., Vienna 1977 or in Plant Breeding, Principles and
   Prospects, Chapman and Hall, London 1993. For mutagenesis of seed by X-ray,
   hydrated seeds may be treated with 20,000 rads, (30 cm from the source for 45 minutes
   using a filter). X-ray mutagenesis is described and compared to EMS mutagenesis by
10 Filippetti, A. et al., "Improvement of Seed Yield in Vicia Faba L. By Using
   Experimental Mutagenesis II Comparison of Gamma-Radiation and Ethyl-Methane
   Sulphonate (EMS) in Production of Morphological Mutants", Euphytica 35 (1986) 49
   59. DEB (diepoxybutane) mutagenized seeds may, for example, be obtained by
   soaking the seeds in water overnight, then soaking in 22 mM DEB for 4 hours,
15 followed by extensive washing. Other mutagens which may be utilized include ethyl
   2-chloroethyl sulphide, 2-chloroethyl-dimethylamine, ethylene oxide, ethyleneimine,
   dimethyl sulphonate, diethyl sulphonate, propane sulphone, beta-propiolactone,
   diazomethane, N-methyl-N-nitrosourethane, acridine orange and sodium azide.
           Mutagenesis utilizing EMS is well described in the literature. The Manual on
20 Mutation Breeding, supra, reports a preferred EMS mutagenesis process for barley
   seeds as practiced by K. Mikaelson. In this preferred process, the seeds are prepared,
   pre-soaked, treated with the mutagen and post-washed.
           United States Patent No. 6,067,749, incorporated by reference herein in its
   entirety, describes the use of EMS for the preparation of a Papaversomnferum strain
25 with a high concentration of thebaine and oripavine.
           Irradiation methods such as fast neutron mutagenesis ("FNM") may also be
   used to produce mutagenized seed (see e.g., Li, X. et al., A fast neutron deletion
   mutagenesis-based reverse genetics system for plants, The Plant Journal 27(3), 235-242
   (2001)). Fast neutron mutagenesis is, for instance, described by Kodym and Afza
30 (2003), Physical and Chemical Mutagenesis, pp 189-203, in Methods in Molecular
   Biology, Vol. 236: Plant Functional Genomics: Methods and Protocols (Ed. E.
   Grotewold), Humana Press Inc, Totowa, NJ.

                                                  -15
            Gamma (y) rays are electromagnetic waves of very short wavelengths and are
   obtained by disintegration of radioisotopes Co or Cs. r sources can be installed in a y
   cell, a y room, or y field. These are shielded by lead or concrete. Most y sources are
   suitable for seed irradiation, as long as the size of irradiation space is sufficient and the
 5 dose rate allows practical irradiation times. In contrast, fast neutrons are uncharged
   particles of high kinetic energy and are generated in nuclear reactors or in accelerators.
   The skilled person should assess the feasibility for seed irradiation with the operators,
   since not all facilities are suitably equipped and can produce fast neutrons at a low
   degree of contamination with other radiation.
10          The two radiation types differ in their physical properties and hence, in their
   mutagenic activity. y rays have a lower relative biological effectiveness (RBE) than
   fast neutrons, which implies that in order to obtain the same biological effect, a higher
   dose of y radiation must be given. RBE is mainly a function of the linear energy
   transfer (LET), which is the transfer of energy along the ionizing track. y rays produce
15 a few ionizations per micron of path (low LET) and belong to the category of sparsely
   ionizing radiation. Fast neutrons (high LET, densely ionizing radiation) impart some of
   their high kinetic energy via collisions, largely with protons within the material.
            When radiation passes through tissue, physical events such as ionizations
   (ejection of electrons from molecules) and excitations (process of raising electrons to a
20 higher energy state) occur and lead to effects in DNA, membranes, lipids, enzymes, etc.
   Secondly, chemical events are induced that start with the formation of activated
   molecules, so-called free radicals (OH- and H-) that arise from OH- and H+. If oxygen
   is present, it reacts readily with radiation-induced free radicals to form peroxyradicals.
   In the case of low LET radiation, the formation of peroxyradicals is favoured. In high
25 LET radiation, the formation of hydrogen peroxide (H2 0 2) by recombination of free
   radicals is favoured. All radicals and hydrogen peroxide can react with biological
   molecules. Primary damage caused by radiation occurs randomly and is both
   physiological and genetic. Physiological recovery and repair of DNA are possible to
   some extent, as non-damaged molecules may take over metabolic processes and DNA
30 repair mechanisms are activated.
            Before starting any mutation induction studies, it is most crucial to select
   suitable doses. For mutation induction, it is advisable to use two to three doses along

                                                 -16
   with a control. The applicable doses will depend on the breeding or research objective,
   the radiation type and the particular plant material. It is known that plant genera and
   species and, to a lesser extent, cultivars differ in their radiosensitivity. Radiosensitivity
   (radiation sensitivity) is a relative measure that gives an indication of the quantity of
 5 recognizable effects of the radiation exposure on the irradiated object. The
   radiosensitivity is influenced by biological factors (such as genetic differences, nuclear
   and interphase chromosome vol) and by environmental modifying factors (oxygen,
   water content, post-irradiation storage, and temperature).
           Modifying factors greatly affect mutagenic efficiency and reproducibility of
10 results. Oxygen is the major modifying factor, while moisture content, temperature,
   and storage appear to be secondary, interacting with the oxygen effect. Oxygen shows
   synergistic action with sparsely ionizing radiation, but oxygen effects during irradiation
   and post-irradiation storage can easily be prevented by adjustment of seed water
   content to 12-14% in cereals and most other seeds. In oilseeds such as poppies, the
15 seed water content should be lower, around 7-8%. The critical region is the embryo,
   but it can be assumed that the water content of the seed and the embryo of most species
   will be similar. Environmental factors are less important with densely ionizing
   radiation; thus, for fast neutron radiation, no seed moisture adjustment is necessary.
           Unless data on the radiosensitivity of a given plant are already published or
20 known from experience, the mutation induction program should be preceded by a
   radiosensitivity test. This is done by irradiating the seeds with a range of doses and by
   growing out the plants under greenhouse conditions. Radiosensitivity is assessed based
   on criteria such as reduced seedling height, fertility, and survival in the M1 generation.
   A seedling height reduction of 30-40% is generally assumed to give a high mutation
25 yield. The usefulness of radiation can be judged by mutagenic efficiency, which is the
   production of desirable changes free from association with undesirable changes. A
   high dose will increase mutation frequency (the frequency at which a specific kind of
   mutation or mutant is found in a population of cells or individuals), but will be
   accompanied by negative features, such as sterility. When selecting the doses, it will
30 be necessary to find a treatment regime providing high mutagenic efficiency.

                                                -17
           For fast neutron radiation, dosimetric measurements have to be done during
   each radiation treatment, e.g., by performing the sulphur threshold detector method,
   since the neutron flux in the seed irradiation unit is not constant.
           The Gray (symbol Gy), the SI (Systame Internationale) unit used to quantify the
 5 absorbed dose of radiation (1 Gy = 1 J/kg) replaced the old unit rad; 1 Gy = 100 rads or
   1 krad = 10 Gy. The absorbed dose rate (Gy/s or Gy/min) indicates how much energy
   the irradiated material absorbs during a given unit of time. The length of exposure and
   the dose rate determines the radiation dose. Exposure during short times (seconds to a
   few hours) at a high dose rate is referred to as acute and is most applied in irradiation
10 programs.
           Fast neutrons have been shown to be a very effective mutagen. Kornneef et al.
   (1982) found that about 2500 lines treated with fast neutron at a dose of 60 Gy are
   required to inactivate a gene once on average (Koomneef, M., Dellaert, L.W.M. and
   van der Veen, J.H. (1982) EMS- and radiation-induced mutation frequencies at
15 individual loci in Arabidopsis thaliana(L.) Heynh. Mutat. Res.93, 109-123). If the
   plant genome contains about 25000 genes, it is estimated that about 10 genes are
   randomly deleted in each line.
           FNM offers a number of advantages over using chemical treatment such as
   EMS. Notably, the treatment is applied to the dried seed, which can be sown at a later
20 date, while with EMS the seed needs either to be sown immediately after treatment, or
   carefully re-dried for sowing later. However, chemical mutagenesis is particularly
   useful and methods embodied by the invention are exemplified herein by treatment of
   seeds with EMS.
           After exposing seeds to a mutagen in accordance with a method embodied by
25 the invention, the seeds are typically grown to maturity in controlled conditions and
   then self-pollinated. The seeds from the mature plant are taken and at least one seed is
   planted to grow an M2 generation. The M2 generation is screened for alkaloid
   production. Of course, it is possible to screen the M1 generation, but there are several
   advantages to screening the M2 generation. Firstly, screening the M2 generation
30 insures that the trait resulting from mutagenesis can be inherited. Secondly, by
   growing the M2 generation, the basic hardiness of the plant is proven before screening.
   Thirdly, traits resulting from mutagenesis are generally inherited as recessive genes.

                                                -18
   Typically the mutated gene will be in the heterozygous state in the M1 generation, and
   thus the mutation will be masked by the dominant (non-mutated) form of the gene. In
   the M2 generation, however, in a proportion of the plants the gene will be in the
   homozygous state, and the effect of the mutation apparent.
 5         The M2 plants can be grown to produce an immature capsule, but it is possible
   to save time and labor if the plants are screened at an earlier stage of growth. It is
   recommended that the plants be screened at a point beginning at the 6 leaf stage, up to
   the 10 leaf stage. Screening at this early stage advantageously allows many plants to be
   managed in a small space.
10         The screening process itself is the most labor intensive and as such, to improve
   return on labor, generally only plants that appear healthy have conventionally been
   screened. However, the present inventors contrary to conventional practice, also
   screened plants which had substantially lighter colour leaves than the parent plant and
   other plant lines generated as described above. As the lighter colour could indicate a
15 serious defect such as a nutrient deficiency or a reduction in chlorophyll content in their
   leaves, these plants would have been expected to have reduced vigour, which would
   adversely impact on commercially important characteristics of the plants such as one or
   more of rate of maturation, capsule number, poppy straw and/or latex yield and
   thereby, overall codeine yield. Nevertheless and contrary to expectations, the present
20 inventors found that such plants could have high codeine content and increased amount
   of codeine relative to thebaine compared to the parent plant utilised, and so be useful as
   a commercial field crop.
           In the screening process, the objective is to measure each plant for codeine
   content relative to morphine, and thebaine content. Additional confounding alkaloids
25 such as oripavine can also be measured.
           This can be accomplished by extracting, for example, poppy straw into a liquid
   buffer or by dissolving a latex sample into a buffer. The buffer solutions are placed
   onto 96 well trays and fed mechanically through any of the high-throughput HPLCs
   available on the market. In a preferred embodiment, latex can be very rapidly screened
30 utilizing isocratic ultra-high performance liquid chromatography (UPLC).
           A very rapid and efficient screening method is desirable to test sufficient plants
   for finding an advantageous mutation. Suitable alkaloid screening methods are for

                                                 -19
   instance described in WO 2009/143574 and WO 2009/109012. Furthermore, by using
   UPLC apparatus with a very sensitive UV detector (e.g., a Waters Acquity UPLC) it is
   possible to quantify very low levels of alkaloid, meaning that even very small plants
   can be tested. Additionally, very rapid screening (e.g., 0.8 minute) of each plant can
 5 allow over 1000 samples to be analysed daily. As a result, the entire screening process
   may be conducted quickly.
            Plants identified by the screening process to have an altered alkaloid profile of
   interest are grown further and examined in more detail. According to the procedure
   herein, a second sample is taken from about 3% of plants to clarify or confirm the
10 results of the initial screen. A more precise gradient UPLC method can then be used to
   obtain more accurate peak identification and quantification. Plants confirmed to have
   the desired alkaloid profile are transplanted to 200mm (approx. 8 inch) pots for
   growing to maturity.
            As used herein, the term "poppy straw" or "straw" is to be taken to mean the
15 straw material obtained when the mature poppy capsules of a Papaversomniferum
   plant are collected, and threshed to remove the seeds to form a straw.
            As used herein, the term "opium" is to be taken to mean the air-dried, milky
   exudation (i.e., the latex) from incised, unripe poppy capsules of a Papaversomniferum
   plant.
20          As used herein, the term "concentrate of poppy straw" or "CPS" is to be taken
   to mean the material arising when poppy straw has entered into a process for the
   concentration of its alkaloids in either liquid, solid or powder form which contains the
   phenanthrene alkaloids of the opium poppy.
            As used herein, the phrase "stand of Papaversomniferum" or "stand of stably
25 reproducing Papaversomniferum" or the like, refers to a group of two or more Papaver
   somniferum plants or stably reproducing Papaversomniferum plants located together.
   Typically, the stand will comprise at least 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
   17, 18, 19, or 20 or more Papaversomniferum plants located together e.g., 30, 40, 50,
   60, 70, 80, 90 or 100 or more of the plants. Typically, the plants are grown or growing
30 in a field exposed to ambient environmental conditions
            As used herein, the term "alkaloid combination" is to be taken to refer to a
   combination of alkaloids wherein the alkaloids comprise morphine, codeine and

                                                -20
   thebaine. The alkaloid combination can also include and oripavine in the context of
   plant embodied by the invention or a parent plant as described herein. In further
   embodiments of the present invention, the alkaloid combination may comprise one or
   more additional alkaloids as may be selected from the group consisting of, codeinone,
 5 neopinone, protopine, laudanine, laudanosine, salutaridine, reticuline, papaverine and
   noscapine, in addition to morphine, codeine, thebaine and when included, oripavine.
           A "stably reproducing" Papaversomniferum poppy plant as described herein
   refers to a poppy plant that is stably reproducing as required to plant and harvest seed
   from poppy crops over multiple generations where each generation would be suitable,
10 without seed selection, for commercial planting of a field crop or stand of plants
   exhibiting the desired alkaloid characteristic(s). Further, a stably reproducing poppy
   plant in accordance with the invention has the desired alkaloid characteristics as
   described herein, and when self-pollinated, or cross pollinated by a plant with the same
   genes controlling alkaloid content, produces a subsequent generation of plants which
15 all have the same genetic potential to substantially have the same desired alkaloid
   characteristics as the parent plant. Moreover, in the absence of pollination with pollen
   from other chemotypes (e.g., conventional morphine accumulating plants), the line will
   continue to produce similar plants over multiple generations, without the need for
   selection to maintain the desired alkaloid characteristic.
20         As above, the term "stably heritable" as used herein is to be taken to mean the
   Papaversomniferum produces a subsequent generation of plants which all have the
   same genetic potential to substantially have the same alkaloid characteristics as the
   parent plant, when the plant is self-pollinated, or cross pollinated by a plant with the
   same genes controlling alkaloid content as described above. As above, in the absence
25 of pollination with pollen from other chemotypes (e.g., conventional morphine
   accumulating plants), the line will continue to produce similar plants over multiple
   generations, without the need for selection to maintain the specified alkaloid
   characteristic.
           As used herein the term "trait" is to be taken to mean a distinct heritable
30 phenotypic characteristic. The desired trait(s), once established are consistently
   inherited by substantially all the progeny. To maintain the desired traits, care should be

                                                  -21
   taken to prevent cross-pollination with normal plants unless such cross-pollination is
   part of a controlled breeding program.
           Examples of desired trait(s) and/or alkaloid characteristics of Papaver
   somniferum plants embodied by the invention which can be passed on to future
 5 generations (e.g., progeny and descendent plants thereof) include a) a high codeine
   content in poppy straw, latex and/or opium, b) a high codeine content relative to one or
   more confounding alkaloids in the production of codeine, particularly at least thebaine
   in poppy straw, latex and/or opium, and c) a lighter leaf colour as described herein in
   combination with a) or b).
10         As used herein, the term "substantially no" when referring to thebaine content
   means that thebaine constitutes less than 10% by weight, preferably less than 5.0% by
   weight, more preferably less than 2% by weight, and most preferably, less than 1% of
   the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine and thebaine, and most preferably the
   alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine, of the poppy straw,
15 concentrate of poppy straw or opium.
           The term "substantially no", when referring to morphine, oripavine and
   alkaloids other than thebaine as used herein, means that each specified alkaloid
   respectively constitutes less than 1%by weight, preferably, less than 0.5% by weight,
   more preferably, less than 0.3% by weight, and most preferably, from 0% to 0.2% by
20 weight of the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine and thebaine, and most
   preferably, the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine, of
   the poppy straw, concentrate of poppy straw, latex or opium.
           As used herein, the "MI population" is the seeds and resulting plants exposed to
   a mutagenic agent, while "M2 population" is the progeny of self-pollinated M1 plants,
25 "M3 population" is the progeny of self-pollinated M2 plants, "M4 population" is the
   the progeny of self-pollinated M3 plants, and generally "Mn population" is the progeny
   of self-pollinated Mn-i plants.
           The desired trait(s) can be transferred into Papaversomniferum lines having
   other characteristics (e.g., different height, early or late maturity, or having disease
30 resistance) by cross pollinating a plant embodied by the invention with the second
   parent plant, collecting Fl seed, growing a Fl plant which is allowed to self-pollinate
   and collecting the F2 seed. The F2 seed may then be grown, and individual plants that

                                                 -22
   have the desired leaf colour, codeine and/or other alkaloid phenotypic characteristic(s)
   as described herein may be selected according to the methods herein, along with the
   other desired characteristic(s) e.g., disease resistance. Further selection can then be
   undertaken if desired in the F3 and/or subsequent generations in order to produce
 5 highly uniform lines. Alternatively, a high codeine plant embodied by the invention
   can be used as the first parent in a crossing program. A skilled operator will be able to
   apply variations to this method as well known in conventional plant breeding.
           Conducting test crosses with plants of known genotype can provide information
   regarding the genetic changes introduced through mutation. The characteristics of the
10 Fl generation produced by crossing to a normal parent will indicate whether a trait
   inherits as a recessive or dominant gene. Self-pollinating the F1 plants and determining
   the phenotypes of the subsequent F2 population of plants will provide information
   regarding the numbers of genes responsible for particular characteristics.
           As used herein, the term "descendent" plant is meant a Papaversomniferum
15 plant which is the progeny of a plant embodied by the invention or is derived from a
   plant embodied by the invention such as a granddaughter plant, great grandaughter
   plant and the like, or a plant as may be obtained by cross-pollinating a plant embodied
   by the invention (or e.g., a progeny plant thereof) with another Papaversomniferum
   poppy line having desirable trait(s) of interest, testing the progeny at the F2 or F3 or
20 subsequent generations, and selecting progeny exhibiting the desired trait(s) through
   incorporation of gene(s) from the new parent plant. In preferred embodiments of the
   invention, seed from Papaversomniferum which upon harvesting of their capsules
   produce a poppy straw containing codeine as the sole or predominant alkaloid in the
   alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine, or alternatively,
25 which upon the drying of latex from their immature poppy capsules will yield an opium
   containing codeine as the sole or predominant alkaloid of the alkaloid combination, can
   be used to provide a plant embodied by the present invention. Typically, the poppy
   straw of the Papaversomniferum parent plant will contain codeine constituting about
   40% by weight or greater of the alkaloid combination. Preferably, codeine will
30 constitute about 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or 90% by weight
   or greater of the alkaloid combination, e.g., 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97% or
   even 98% or greater.

                                                -23
           Typically, the parent plant yields a poppy straw having a codeine content above
   0.8% w/w of the straw. Preferably, the codeine content of the straw is about 1.0%,
   1.5%, or 2.0% w/w or greater and generally will be in a range of from about 2.0% to
   about 4.2%w/w of the straw or greater, e.g., 2.1%, 2.2%, 2.3%, 2.4%, 2.5%, 2.6%,
 5 2.7%, 2.8%, 2.9%, 3.0%, 3.1%, 3.2%, 3.3%, 3.4%, 3.5%, 3.6%, 3.7%, 3.8%, 3.9%,
   4.0%, 4.1%, or 4.2%, or even greater (e.g., up to 4.5% or 5% or more). Typically, the
   codeine content of the poppy straw will be at least about 2.5% w/w of the straw and
   more generally, in a range from about 2.5% to about 4.19% w/w.
           Typically, the morphine content of the poppy straw of the parent plant is about
10 0.05% w/w or less of the poppy straw, e.g., 0.045%, 0.04%, 0.035%, 0.03%, 0.025%,
   0.02%, 0.015%, or less 0.01%.
           Typically, the thebaine content of the poppy straw of the parent plant is about
   3% w/w of the straw or less, e.g., 2.5%, 2%, 1.5%, 1%, 0.9%, 0.8%. 0.7%, 0.6%, 0.5%
   or 0.4%w/w or less. Most preferably, thebaine constitutes from about 0.4% to about
15 0.6% w/w of the poppy straw.
           In at least some embodiments, in the poppy straw of the Papaversomniferum
   parent plant the ratio of codeine and thebaine to the alkaloid combination of morphine,
   codeine, thebaine and oripavine on a w/w basis, is between about 0.90 and 1.00, e.g., in
   a range from about 0.91 and 1.00, about 0.92 and 1.00, 0.93 and 100, 0.94 and 1.00,
20 0.95 and 1.00, 0.96 and 1.00, 0.97 and 100, 0.98 and 1.00, and about 0.99 and 1.00.
   Typically, the ratio is between about 0.98 and 1.00 and even more preferably, about
   0.99 and 100.
           Typically, the oripavine content of the parent plant straw is less than the
   thebaine content of the straw. Most typically, the oripavine content of the straw is
25 about 1% w/w of the poppy straw or less and more preferably, is about 0.9%, 0.8%,
   0.7%, 0.6%, 0.5% w/w or less. Most preferably, the oripavine content of the poppy
   straw is about 0.4%, 0.3%, 0.2%, or 0. 1%w/w of the straw or less and typically, there
   is no oripavine in the straw.
           In preferred embodiments, the straw and/or latex of the parent Papaver
30 somniferum plant(s) contains substantially no morphine and/or substantially no
   oripavine in the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine.

                                                -24
           In particularly preferred embodiments, the straw and/or latex of the parent
   Papaversomniferum plant(s) contains substantially no thebaine in the alkaloid
   combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine. Most preferably, there is
   substantially no morphine, thebaine and oripavine in the alkaloid combination of
 5 morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine.
           Stably reproducing Papaversomniferum parent plants suitable for use in
   providing a plant having a stably heritable codeine chemotype characterized by higher
   codeine content by weight than a combined morphine and thebaine content in
   accordance with a method of the present invention are, for example, described in
10 International Patent Publication No. WO 2009/143574 in the name of Tasmanian
   Alkaloids Pty Ltd, the entire contents of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by
   cross-reference. Those plants were obtained by crossing plants of Papaversomniferum
   which produced thebaine as the sole or predominant alkaloid in the alkaloid
   combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine in poppy straw or latex from
15 their immature poppy capsules, with Papaversomniferum plants having a morphine
   chemotype that is, plants in which morphine is the predominant alkaloid in poppy straw
   from the plants or latex obtained from their immature poppy capsules. More
   particularly, plants of Papaversomniferum were obtained having codeine as the
   predominant alkaloid and substantially no oripavine or morphine by the cross. Plants
20 were also obtained having codeine as the predominant alkaloid and substantially no
   oripavine, morphine, thebaine or any other alkaloids.
           The high thebaine plants used in the cross described immediately above are
   described in International Patent Publication No. WO 2009/109012, the entire content
   of which is also incorporated herein in its entirety by cross-reference. The high
25 thebaine chemotype of those plants is believed to be the result of two independent
   genetic changes in the plants; one genetic change controlling the accumulation of
   thebaine and oripavine compared with morphine and codeine, and the second genetic
   change controlling the accumulation of thebaine compared with oripavine. More
   particularly, the two independent genetic changes were provided by mutations in two
30 genes, the first gene blocking thebaine from being converted to neopinone, and
   oripavine from being converted to morphinone (as exemplified by the TOP 1 mutation

                                                                 -25
   described below), and the second gene blocking a pathway between thebaine and
   oripavine, see the metabolic pathway set out in Scheme 1 below.
                More particularly, Papaversomniferum is postulated to have two biosynthetic
   pathways from thebaine to morphine as shown in Scheme 1. Pathway A via neopinone,
 5 codeinone and codeine was proposed by Parker, H. I., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 94, 1276
   1282 (1972). Pathway B via oripavine and morphinone was proposed by Brochmann
   Hanssen, E., Planta Med., 50, 343-345 (1984). The enzyme codeinone reductase is
   active in both pathways, reducing codeinone to codeine and morphinone to morphine.
   Further, the TOPI mutation (Millgate et al., Morphine-pathway block in topI poppies.
10 Nature, Vol. 431, 413-414, 2004) affects both pathways, preventing thebaine being
   converted to neopinone in Pathway A, and preventing oripavine being converted to
   morphinone in Pathway B. In particular, the TOPI mutation appears to block
   demethylation of the enol ether which converts thebaine to neopinone, as well as the
   demethylation of the same enol ether in oripavine.
15
                                                            Scheme 1
                      H3CO                          H3CO                       H3CO
                                    C|                                                     |
                                          NCH 3           &            NCH 3                     NCHS
                                                                   DH
                                Neopinone                    Codeinone                   Codeine
                          A
   H3CO                                                                                             HO
                           NCH-                                                                                 NCH3
                                        N                                                              X   H
   H3CO                                                                                             HO     H
               Thebaine                   HO                              HO                           Morphine
                                                          NCHs                          NCH 3
                                       H3CO                                  0
                                                Oripavine                      Morphinone
    Postulated biosynthetic pathways in Papaver somniferum
    A; Parker et al, 1972
    B; Brochmann-Hanssen, 1984
                Thus, when the gene blocking the conversion of thebaine to oripavine whereby
20 the production or activity of the phenolic O-demethylation enzyme that converts

                                                -26
   thebaine to oripavine is substantially inhibited and described in WO 2009/109012 as
   producing the high thebaine poppies in conjunction with the exemplified TOPI
   mutation (also known as the Norman mutation)) is introduced into plants lacking that
   mutation (i.e., into Papaversomniferum plants with a morphine chemotype as
 5 described in WO 2009/143574), plants with a codeine phenotype are produced, and
   these plants can be utilized in methods described herein to produce plants in accordance
   with the present invention.
           Typically, a plant produced in accordance with a method embodied by the
   invention is a plant which upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules will yield a poppy
10 straw, or upon drying of latex from its immature poppy capsules will yield an opium,
   having a higher absolute codeine content and a lower thebaine to codeine content, than
   the straw, latex or opium of the parent plant from which the plant of the invention is
   derived.
           Typically, the poppy straw or the opium of a plant produced in accordance with
15 a method of the invention will have a codeine content which is about 4% or greater
   than the poppy straw or opium of the parent plant on a w/w basis, e.g., about 10% w/w
   or greater, or even about 15% w/w or greater. Thus, the straw of plant embodied by the
   invention may have about 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%,            10%, 11%, 12%, 13%, 14% or
   even 15% w/w or more codeine than the poppy straw or opium of the parent plant.
20         Typically, the poppy straw or the opium of a plant produced in accordance with
   a method of the invention will have a thebaine content which is about 10% or less than
   the poppy straw or opium of the parent plant on a w/w basis. For example, the poppy
   straw or opium of the plant may have a thebaine content which is about 15%, 20%,
   25%, 30% or even 40% less on a w/w basis compared to the straw or opium of the
25 parent plant.
           Typically, the poppy straw or the opium of a plant embodied by the invention
   will have a thebaine to codeine ratio of about 25%, 24%, 23%, 22%, 21%, 20%, 19%,
   18%, 17%, 16%, 15%, 14%, 13%,12%, 11%, or 10% or less on a w/w basis, more
   preferably about 9.5%, 9.0%, 8.5%, 8.0%, or 7.5% or less on a w/w basis and most
30 preferably, about 7.0% w/w or less, 6.5% w/w or less, about 6% w/w or less, about
   5.5% w/w or less, or even about 5% w/w or less..

                                                 -27
            Typically, the poppy straw or opium of a plant embodied by the invention will
   have a codeine content that is at least about 2.5% or greater on a w/w basis of the
   poppy straw or opium and more preferably, about 3.0% or greater on a w/w basis,
   about 3.5% or greater on a weight by weight basis, or even about 4.0% or greater on a
 5 w/w basis (e.g., 2.5%, 2.6%, 2.7%, 2.8%, 2.9%, 3.0%, 3.1%, 3.2%, 3.3%, 3.4%, 3.5%,
   3.6%, 3.7%, 3.8%, 3.9%, 4.0%, 4.1%, and even 4.2% or greater on a w/w basis).
            The term "%w/w" or "/ow/w basis" or the like as used herein in the context of
   the content of a specified alkaloid relative to poppy straw is meant the content of the
   alkaloid in poppy straw obtained from mature, field dried Papaversomniferum.
10          As described herein, in at least some embodiments of the invention, plants
   having a noticeably lighter leaf colour than the parent plant from which they were
   derived were found to nevertheless have an increased codeine content than the parent
   plant, the colour ranging from a visually lighter green to yellow coloured leaves. To
   evaluate the colour of the leaves, spectroscopic measurements were taken to obtain
15 three-dimensional (3D) colour coordinates. Chromaticity coordinates were then
   calculated from the spectrophotometer results in order to reduce the dimensionality of
   the data and to obtain dominant wavelength values for each plant line evaluated. The
   dominant wavelength, as measured in nanometers (nm), is a measure of the hue of an
   object's colour and is used herein to describe leaf colour. Methods of colour
20 measurement and colour description as described herein are well known in the art and
   are described in colourimetry texts including, for example, Wyszecki, G., & Stiles, W.
   S. (1982), Color Science: concepts and methods, quantitative data and formulae (2nd
   Ed.; New York: Wiley).
            The dominant wavelength values of the measured leaves of plants described
25 herein corresponded to the green-yellow spectral wavelength region. Thus, the
   respective plants can be described as all having green-yellow leaves, and plants
   embodied by the invention having lighter coloured leaves than the parent plant can be
   described as having e.g., light green-yellow leaves or for instance, very light green
   yellow leaves, compared to the parent plant.
30          Hence, the term "green-yellow" as used herein in the context of the leaf colour
   of a plant embodied by the invention and/or parent plant, is to be taken to mean green
   yellow in the context of the green-yellow colour spectrum.

                                                -28
            Plants embodied by the invention that have a lighter leaf colour as described
   herein and which are grown in the field (and so are exposed to ambient weather
   conditions during their development) typically have leaves that are lighter in colour
   than if those plants were grown in a greenhouse or polyhouse. As such, plants of the
 5 invention that are field grown will typically have a dominant wavelength value that is
   greater than that if the plants were greenhouse or polyhouse grown plants. Thus,
   typically, a plant of Papaversomniferum having a lighter leaf colour embodied by the
   invention as described above will have green-yellow leaves with a dominant
   wavelength value in a range of from about 561nm to 568nm or greater, but not
10 exceeding 570nm. Thus, most typically, the dominant wavelength value will be in a
   range of from about 561nm to about 568nm e.g., a dominant wavelength value of about
   562nm, 563nm, 564nm, 565nm, 566nm, 567nm, or 568nm. It will also be understood
   that all ranges with the dominant wavelength values identified above are expressly
   encompassed. For instance, a plant embodied by the invention having a lighter leaf
15 colour may have a green-yellow leaf colour with a dominant wavelength value in a
   range of from about 561nm to about 570nm, from about 561nm to about 569nm, from
   about 561nm to about 568nm, from about 562nm to about 568nm, from 562nm to
   about 567nm, or from 563nm to about or 566nm. A method for the measurement of the
   dominant wavelength is exemplified below.
20          The leaf colour can be evaluated at any stage up until maturity of a plant
   embodied by the invention and compared with the leaf colour of the parent plant at the
   same stage of development, such as running up, late running up, bud in apex, early
   hook, hook, mid-hook, upright bud and first flower stages. In particularly preferred
   embodiments, leaf colour is assessed in the early hook or hook stages and more
25 preferably in the early to mid-hook growth stages. As the leaf colour difference in
   light-leaf colour plants embodied by the invention is more pronounced in field grown
   plants compared to field grown parent plants, it is desirable that the evaluation of leaf
   colour is undertaken on field grown plants. Likewise, it is preferable that leaf colour
   comparisons be made between plants grown in the same location and/or under the same
30 conditions. The determination of conditions for growing plants for purposes of leaf
   colour comparisons are well within the expertise of a person of ordinary skill in the art.

                                                 -29
   Conditions suitable for growing plants in a glasshouse or polyhouse for the purpose of
   leaf colour comparisons are, for instance, further described below.
           Whilst dominant wavelength is exemplified herein as a measure of the leaf
   colour, other parameters may be used to evaluate leaf colour of a plant embodied by the
 5 invention relative to a parent plant as described herein. For example, other methods for
   measuring leaf colour may include evaluating the content of one or more pigments in
   leaves responsible for the leaf colour a plant, such as cholorophyll, (e.g., cholorophyll a
   and/or chlorophyll b), accessory pigments such as one or more carotenoid(s),
   anthocyanins, and mixtures of the foregoing, and all suitable alternative methods are
10 expressly encompassed.
           As used herein, the term "field grown" is to be taken to mean plants grown in
   situ from seed sown in the field and plants that are grown to maturity in the field after
   transplanting seedlings raised from seed in a greenhouse or polyhouse.
           Recovering the codeine from dried poppy straw, opium or concentrate of poppy
15 straw is a process well established in the art. Until now, thebaine has been extracted
   from this plant species either as a part of the process of extracting morphine and
   codeine, or more recently as part of the process of extracting thebaine and oripavine.
           For example, the poppy straw can be treated with a small amount of lime and
   water to soften the capsules and to form a free base of the alkaloids. Countercurrent
20 extraction of the softened straw with methanol, ethanol or other suitable solvent forms
   a solvent/water extract or "miscella" containing the alkaloids, with morphine at a
   concentration of about 1 g/L where the straw is from standard Papaversomniferum.
   The volume of the miscella is reduced about 30 x under vacuum to produce an aqueous
   concentrate. Any thebaine can be extracted from the aqueous concentrate using one or
25 more liquid/liquid partitioning extraction steps using suitable solvent(s) (e.g., toluene or
   xylene), adjusting pH for the best separation of thebaine. Codeine remains in the
   aqueous phase and Codeine CPS can be precipitated from the aqueous phase by pH
   adjustment.
           An alternative means of producing alkaloids is to grow plant cells or plant
30 organs such as shoots or roots in culture. Cell culture or organ culture are means of
   producing alkaloids without being subject to the vagaries of climate and other
   uncertainties associated with crop production. The general methods of establishing cell

                                                -30
   cultures, root cultures and shoot cultures for the purpose of alkaloid production are
   provided by M.F. Roberts, Production of alkaloids in plant cell culture. In Alkaloids,
   Biochemistry, Ecology, and Medicinal Applications, Edited by Roberts and Wink,
   Plenum Press, New York 1998, pages 159-197, the contents of which is hereby
 5 incorporated by reference in its entirety. The first step in producing cell cultures is to
   establish growth of callus. One way of achieving this for Papaversomniferum is
   provided by Chitty et al.(2003)., Genetic transformation in commercial Tasmanian
   cultivars of opium poppy, Papaversomniferum L., and movement of transgenic pollen
   in the field. Functional Plant Biology 30: 1045-1058. In this method, seeds are surface
10 sterilized by washing for 30-60 seconds in 70% ethanol, then in 1% (w/v) sodium
   hypochlorite solution plus 1-2 drops of autoclaved Tween 20 for 20 minutes with
   agitation. Seeds are then rinsed three to four times in sterile distilled water, or until no
   smell of bleach remains, and placed on B50 agar medium (Gamborg et al. 1968
   Nutrient requirements of suspension cultures of soybean root cells. Experimental Cell
15 Research 50, 151-158). Dishes are sealed with parafilm and imbibed at 4'C for 24 to
   48 hours. Seeds are germinated at 24'C in a 16 hour light-8 hour dark cycle.
   Hypocotyls are excised from seedlings after 7-8 days of culture, cut into 3-6 mm pieces
   (usually 1-3 explants per seedling) and placed onto callusing media. Culture media
   consists of B50 macronutrients, micronutrients, iron salts and vitamins (Gamborg et al.
20 1968) and sucrose at 20 g/L. pH can be adjusted with IM KOH to pH 5.6 and 0.8%
   Sigma agar (A1296) can be used as a gelling agent.
            All media should be autoclaved at 121 C for 20 minutes. B50 medium contains
   no growth regulators and is used to germinate seeds aseptically, maintain embryogenic
   callus, and regenerate shoots and plantlets. Callusing Medium (CM) is B50 medium
25 plus 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D) at 1 mg/l, added prior to the medium
   being autoclaved.
            To generate a cell suspension culture (method from Staba et al. 1982, Alkaloid
   production from Papaver tissue cultures, Journal of Natural Products, 43,256-262),
   callus cultures can be transferred into 125mL Erlenmeyer flasks containing 25 mL of
30 liquid RT medium (Khanna and Khanna 1976, Ind J Exp Biol 14,628) supplemented
   with either 5ppm BA for the growth of shoots or 0.1 ppm 2,4-D for the development of
   cell suspensions. Cultures can be grown at 28'C on an orbital shaker (78 rpm) with 15

                                                 -31
   hours of light per day. In particular, cell cultures can be grown as a batch culture where
   the cells multiply in a liquid medium which is being continuously agitated to maintain
   the cells as small aggregates and to maintain oxygen levels. Typically, after the initial
   inoculation there is a lag phase, followed by an exponential growth phase, which is
 5 then followed by a stationary phase where the growth becomes limited by lack of some
   components of the medium. Often, secondary plant products such as alkaloids are
   accumulated while the culture is in the stationary phase. For some products, alkaloid
   production can be induced by adding elicitors such as fungal cell extracts. There are
   also systems of continuous or semi-continuous culture where fresh medium is added
10 either continuously or semi-continuously while cells or media are likewise removed for
   alkaloid recovery. Critical to the success of any cell culture system is the establishment
   of high yielding cell lines. Generally, selection is required to select individual plants,
   or individual cell cultures that produce the required alkaloid. For the production of
   codeine, a rapid HPLC or UPLC method such as those described in this application
15 could be modified to test cell lines for codeine production.
            Techniques such as root culture including hairy root culture where roots are
   transformed with Agrobacterium rhizogenes may also be a viable means of producing
   codeine in culture. A method for transformation of Papaversomniferum cultures with
   A. rhizogenes is, for instance, described in Yoshimatsu and Shimomura (1992),
20 Transformation of opium poppy (Papaversomniferum L.) with Agrobacterium
   rhizogenes MAFF 03-01724. Plant Cell Reports 11,132-136. A person skilled in the
   art of cell and organ culture would also be able to envisage other means of growing
   plant cells derived from plants embodied by the present invention in order to produce
   codeine.
25          Methods for sampling leaf latex, and measuring the content of codeine,
   thebaine, morphine, oripavine and other alkaloids as described herein in poppy straw,
   latex, opium and concentrate or of poppy straw are well known to the skilled person,
   see for instance WO 2009/143574 and WO 2009/109012.
            The invention is further described below with reference to a number of
30 Examples. The Examples are not intended and should not be construed as limiting the
   invention in any way.

                                                  -32
   EXAMPLE 1:               EMS mutagenesis treatment of seed of a Papaver somniferum
   line commercially grown for the production of codeine
            The seed of a stably reproducing Papaversomniferum "Tasman" parent line
 5 (PW08-2308) which produces codeine as the predominant alkaloid and relatively low
   levels of thebaine and essentially no morphine or oripavine as described in WO
   2009/143574 was subjected to EMS mutagenesis treatment.
            In brief, 2 x 2g lots of seed from the commercially grown Papaversomniferum
   "Tasman" line (PW08-2308) were utilised in the present study. Each 2g seed lot was
10 placed in a 15cm x 15cm square of porous mesh curtain material and the corners of the
   material were tied together to form a pouch. The bags of Tasman seed were placed in
   separate 250mL flasks filled with chilled (4'C) 100mM phosphate buffer (pH 7). The
   flasks were sealed with a rubber stopper and placed in a refrigerator at 4'C) where they
   were left overnight.
15          The next the day the bags of seed were removed from the phosphate buffer
   solution, and a new solution of 0.7% EMS (ethyl methanesulfonate) in phosphate
   buffer was prepared by adding 1.75mL of EMS to 250 mL phosphate buffer. The bags
   of seed were added to the EMS solution, the flask was capped and the solution stirred
   on a magnetic stiffer (without heat). Seed was treated in this way for 5 hours.
20          At the end of each treatment period the bags of seed were removed from the
   EMS solution and rinsed under running water for 30 minutes. The seed was then left
   overnight in 200mL distilled H2 0 at 4'C. The next day seeds were again rinsed under
   running water for 30 minutes, spread thinly on a layer of tissue paper and left to air-dry
   for 2 hours to facilitate ease of handling when sowing.
25          The air-dried mutagenized M1 seed was immediately sown in 14cm diameter
   pots filled with potting soil (a 50:50 mix of coarse and composted pine bark, with
   OsmocoteTM slow release fertiliser added). Seeds were sown at the rate of about 10 per
   pot and 96 pots of each line/EMS treatment combination were sown. After sowing the
   seed was covered with a fine layer of vermiculite. Watering was via overhead
30 sprinklers for the first 14 days followed by drip irrigation through to maturity. Plants
   were fertilised by weekly application of a liquid fertiliser. The M1 generation was
   grown in an enclosed (plastic covered) greenhouse under natural day lengths in

                                                -33
   Westbury, Tasmania, Australia. Individual M1 plants were self-pollinated through the
   use of a paper bag placed and secured over individual flower buds prior to anthesis.
            At maturity, M2 seed was harvested from each M1 plant and placed in a
   separate labelled seed packet. An equal amount (0.08g) of M2 seed was then taken
 5 from each packet to produce four bulk M2 seed samples.
            Bulked M2 seed was sown in a field breeding nursery (Weetah, Tasmania,
   Australia) on 22 September 2011. The seed was sown in 5m long x 1.6 wide plots,
   with 6 rows per plot, using a custom-built-trial-seed drill. Seventy plots of the
   Tasman/5 hr treatments were sown, with approximately 0.24 g of seed used to sow
10 each plot. Basal fertilizer was incorporated into the soil at the time of sowing.
            Plants were inspected regularly throughout development to screen for
   interesting and potentially useful phenotypes. At early stages of development plants
   with phenotypes of interest were marked with a flag to ensure they were examined
   further. After 'running up' all of these plants were tagged with a label that described
15 their phenotype. All labelled phenotypic mutants were self-pollinated by placing and
   securing a paper bag over the primary flower bud prior to anthesis. In addition, 1200
   'Tasman' M2 plants, with normal phenotypes, were selected at random and self
   pollinated by securing a paper bag over the primary flower bud prior to anthesis.
            M3 seed from each of the M2 plants was harvested separately when plants were
20 fully mature and dry (February 2012) and were assigned line numbers starting with
   EM3 or EM4.
            M3 seed from 'Tasman' phenotypic mutant lines was grown in the greenhouse
   during April 2012 to further examine their phenotype and bulk M4 seed for future field
   trials. Plants were grown 6-per-pot in 14cm diameter pots in commercial potting soil,
25 under a 16hr photoperiod.
   EXAMPLE 2:           M3 field trials
   1.      M3 alkaloid/phenotype screening trial
30
            A number of M2 mutant plants with interesting phenoytpes were identified in
   the M2 populations grown (Weetah, Tasmania, Australia) during the 2011/12 season as

                                                   -34
   outlined in Example 1. Some of the phenotypes observed in the M2 field grown plants
   were not evident when the M3 generation was grown in the greenhouse, and these M3
   lines were excluded from further investigations. Overall, 982 M3 lines that appeared
   worthy of further investigation were advanced to field trials (Hagley, Tasmania,
 5 Australia) during the 2012/13 poppy growing season.
           M3 'Tasman' mutant lines produced in Example 1 were sown in one or more of
   three different field trials, to assess, various aspects of their alkaloid content, alkaloid
   profiles and/or phenotypes.
           The first of these trials, the M3 alkaloid screening trial, was conducted in a
10 paddock (Hagley, Tasmania, Australia) during the 2012/13 poppy growing season.
   Each M3 line was sown in a single, 5m long row within a 5m x 1.8 m plot that
   contained six such rows. Multiple replicates of the 'Tasman' parent line were grown
   throughout the trial. A visual assessment of plant phenotype was conducted prior to
   flowering. Plants were allowed to mature and dry under field conditions, and all
15 capsules from each row (each of the parent and M3 lines) were harvested for analysis
   of alkaloid content and profile. Capsules were weighed and, threshed to remove seed
   to produce poppy straw. The straw was then weighed and ground using a Retsch
   Grindomix GM 200 in preparation for alkaloid extraction. 2g of the ground straw was
   placed in a plastic tube and suspended in 40mL of extraction solution (consisting of
20 2% acetic acid and 10% ethanol in distilled water), then shaken on an orbital shaker for
   90 minutes. 240 pL of extractant solution from each sample was filtered through a
   0.45 pM Pall filter prior to the analysis of alkaloid content using a Waters Acquity
   ULPC* (Ultra High Performance Liquid Chromotography) system. Sample
   components were separated on a Waters Acquity UPLC BEH C18 Column (Part No.
25 186002352) by a gradient method using A. 2% acetic acid in water and B. acetonitrile
   (HPLC grade). The column temperature was maintained at 44 'C and the detector
   wavelength was set at 284nm. Chromatographic peak areas were analysed and alkaloid
   content (%w/w) calculated using Empower software.
           The results for each single replicate M3 line were compared to a mean value for
30 the parent line (PW08-2308) included in the trial. Two other Papaversomniferum
   lines with a codeine chemotype, namely PW 1-4063 and PW10-0149 derived from a
   breeding program, were included in the trial for comparison with the mutant M3 lines.

                                                  -35
            Of the 982 M3 lines screened, 80 M3 lines exhibited increased codeine content
   relative to the parent line (PW08-2308), and 139 M3 lines exhibited a thebaine/codeine
   ratio (T/C) lower than the parent line PW08-2308 (T/C of 0.06, that is a reduced
   amount of codeine relative to thebaine, the best lines being (EM3-0281, EM3-0538,
 5 EM3-0832 and EM3-0515, with a T/C of 0.01). No data was obtained for 68 M3 lines
   as a result of poor establishment in one section of the trial. Due to the high-vigour
   phenotype of the PW08-2308 parent line, M3 lines having mutations that affected plant
   health and vigour were very obvious. A total of 16 M3 lines were identified as
   showing very low vigour. Determined levels of codeine, thebaine, morphine and
10 oripavine in selected M3 lines are shown in Table 1. A graph illustrating the codeine
   and thebaine content of the poppy straw from the best 20 codeine producing M3 lines is
   shown in Fig. 1
   Table 1:          Alkaloid content of poppy straw of selected Papaversomniferum M3
15 lines
                                                                                            00
                                                                                             0
                                                                                000
                                                             P    809    9 60
                                                             P.    87 0       0
                                                                .0
                                                  0                           0
         EM-47    38     0.0    0.0    0.0   41         0.0      12     12u          oen
          EM-10   36     0      0.0016       37       04         1101              odie/
     EM3-0034     3.60   0.00   0.00   0.530 4.13       0.15     1214   123         codeine
     EM3-0076     3.59   0.00   0.00   0.37  3.96       0.10     114    118         codeine

                                 -36
EM3-0106 3.50 0.00 0.00 0.28 3.77    0.08 111 112   codeine
EM3-0505 3.49 0.00 0.00 0.33 3.82    0.09 111 114   codeine
EM3-0023 3.46 0.00 0.00 0.28 3.74    0.08 110 111   codeine
EM3-0539 3.43 0.00 0.00 0.17 3.59    0.05 109 107 codeine, T/C
EM3-0285 3.42 0.00 0.00 0.22 3.63    0.06 108 108   codeine
EM3-0506 3.41 0.00 0.00 0.31 3.73    0.09 108 111   codeine
EM3-0619 3.41 0.00 0.00 0.19 3.60    0.06 108 107   codeine
EM3-0191 3.40 0.00 0.00 0.49 3.90    0.15 108 116   codeine
EM3-1199 3.40 0.00 0.00 0.26 3.65    0.08 108 109   codeine
EM3-1124 3.39 0.00 0.00 0.40 3.80    0.12 108 113   codeine
EM3-0331 3.39 0.00 0.00 0.22 3.61    0.06 108 107   codeine
EM3-0584 3.37 0.00 0.00 0.18 3.55    0.05 107 106 codeine, T/C
EM3-0072 3.36 0.00 0.00 0.09 3.46    0.03 107 103 codeine, T/C
EM3-1196 3.36 0.00 0.00 0.20 3.55    0.06 107 106   codeine
EM3-0390 3.35 0.00 0.00 0.06 3.41    0.02 106 102 codeine, T/C
EM3-0476 3.35 0.00 0.00 0.19 3.54    0.06 106 105   codeine
EM3-0095 3.34 0.00 0.00 0.27 3.62    0.08 106 108   codeine
EM3-1147 3.34 0.00 0.00 0.19 3.53    0.06 106 105   codeine
EM3-1166 3.34 0.00 0.00 0.26 3.59    0.08 106 107   codeine
EM3-0552 3.34 0.00 0.00 0.39 3.72    0.12 106 111   codeine
EM3-0674 3.33 0.00 0.00 0.29 3.62    0.09 106 108   codeine
EM3-0551 3.32 0.00 0.00 0.20 3.52    0.06 105 105   codeine
EM3-1026 3.32 0.00 0.00 0.20 3.52    0.06 105 105   codeine
EM3-1138 3.32 0.00 0.00 0.24 3.56    0.07 105 106   codeine
EM3-0205 3.31 0.00 0.00 0.24 3.55    0.07 105 106   codeine
EM3-0408 3.31 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.45    0.04 105 103 codeine, T/C
EM3-1195 3.30 0.00 0.03 0.49 3.82    0.15 105 114   codeine
EM3-0361 3.30 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.44    0.04 105 102 codeine, T/C
EM3-1011 3.30 0.00 0.00 0.38 3.67    0.12 105 109   codeine
EM3-0307 3.29 0.00 0.00 0.31 3.60    0.09 105 107   codeine
EM3-1112 3.29 0.00 0.00 0.30 3.58    0.09 104 107   codeine
EM3-0585 3.29 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.42    0.04 104 102 codeine, T/C
EM3-1125 3.28 0.00 0.00 0.39 3.67    0.12 104 109   codeine
EM3-1171 3.28 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.44    0.05 104 102 codeine, T/C
EM3-0618 3.27 0.12 0.00 0.46 3.85    0.14 104 115   codeine
EM3-0111 3.27 0.00 0.00 0.18 3.45    0.06 104 103   codeine
EM3-0426 3.27 0.00 0.00 0.23 3.49    0.07 104 104   codeine
EM3-1020 3.26 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.42    0.05 104 102 codeine, T/C
EM3-1122 3.26 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.38    0.04 104 101 codeine, T/C
EM3-1179 3.26 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.40    0.05 103 101 codeine, T/C
EM3-1136 3.25 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.40    0.04 103 101 codeine, T/C
EM3-0519 3.25 0.00 0.00 0.10 3.35    0.03 103 100 codeine, T/C
EM3-0637 3.25 0.00 0.00 0.50 3.75    0.16 103 112   codeine

                                 -37
EM3-0352 3.24 0.00 0.00 0.34 3.58    0.10 103 107 codeine
EM3-0438 3.24 0.00 0.00 0.19 3.42    0.06 103 102 codeine
EM3-0058 3.24 0.00 0.00 0.27 3.50    0.08 103 104 codeine
EM3-0532 3.24 0.00 0.00 0.27 3.50    0.08 103 104 codeine
EM3-0733 3.23 0.00 0.00 0.52 3.76    0.16 103 112 codeine
EM3-0449 3.23 0.00 0.00 0.44 3.66    0.14 102 109 codeine
EM3-0320 3.22 0.00 0.00 0.40 3.62    0.12 102 108 codeine
EM3-0943 3.22 0.00 0.00 0.26 3.47    0.08 102 103 codeine
EM3-0826 3.21 0.00 0.00 0.22 3.43    0.07 102 102 codeine
EM3-1132 3.21 0.00 0.00 0.28 3.49    0.09 102 104 codeine
EM3-0350 3.21 0.00 0.00 0.27 3.48    0.08 102 103 codeine
EM3-0592 3.21 0.00 0.00 0.19 3.40    0.06 102 101 codeine
EM3-1164 3.21 0.00 0.02 0.42 3.64    0.13 102 108 codeine
EM3-0607 3.21 0.00 0.00 0.26 3.47    0.08 102 103 codeine
EM3-1191 3.20 0.00 0.00 0.51 3.71    0.16 102 111 codeine
EM3-0587 3.20 0.00 0.00 0.71 3.91    0.22 102 116 codeine
EM3-1007 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.31 3.50    0.10 101 104 codeine
EM3-0536 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.33 3.53    0.10 101 105 codeine
EM3-0455 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.34 3.53    0.11 101 105 codeine
EM3-0241 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.27 3.46    0.09 101 103 codeine
EM3-0411 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.47 3.65    0.15 101 109 codeine
EM3-0392 3.18 0.00 0.00 0.22 3.39    0.07 101 101 codeine
EM3-1131 3.18 0.00 0.00 0.21 3.39    0.07 101 101 codeine
EM3-0139 3.18 0.00 0.00 0.33 3.50    0.10 101 104 codeine
EM3-0311 3.18 0.00 0.00 0.26 3.44    0.08 101 102 codeine
EM3-0084 3.18 0.00 0.00 0.21 3.38    0.07 101 101 codeine
EM3-1079 3.17 0.00 0.00 0.22 3.39    0.07 101 101 codeine
EM3-0158 3.17 0.00 0.00 0.25 3.42    0.08 101 102 codeine
EM3-0200 3.17 0.09 0.00 0.34 3.60    0.11 101 107 codeine
EM3-1163 3.17 0.00 0.00 0.33 3.50    0.10 101 104 codeine
EM3-0646 3.16 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.32    0.05 100 99    T/C
EM3-1161 3.15 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.31    0.05 100 98    T/C
EM3-0484 3.12 0.00 0.00 0.17 3.28    0.05 99  98    T/C
EM3-1039 3.12 0.00 0.00 0.08 3.20    0.03 99  95    T/C
EM3-0698 3.09 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.24    0.05 98  96    T/C
EM3-1113 3.09 0.00 0.00 0.17 3.25    0.05 98  97    T/C
EM3-1116 3.07 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.20    0.04 98  95    T/C
EM3-1159 3.07 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.22    0.05 98  96    T/C
EM3-0151 3.07 0.00 0.00 0.08 3.15    0.03 98  94    T/C
EM3-1022 3.07 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.20    0.04 97  95    T/C
EM3-1110 3.05 0.00 0.00 0.06 3.10    0.02 97  92    T/C
EM3-1183 3.05 0.00 0.00 0.08 3.13    0.02 97  93    T/C
EM3-0501 3.04 0.00 0.00 0.10 3.14    0.03 96  93    T/C

                                 -38
EM3-0273 3.02 0.00 0.00 0.07 3.09    0.02 96 92 T/C
EM3-0498 3.02 0.00 0.00 0.10 3.12    0.03 96 93 T/C
EM3-0843 3.01 0.00 0.00 0.06 3.07    0.02 96 91 T/C
EM3-1066 3.01 0.00 0.01 0.16 3.18    0.05 96 95 T/C
EM3-0183 3.01 0.00 0.00 0.08 3.09    0.03 96 92 T/C
EM3-0664 3.01 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.14    0.05 95 94 T/C
EM3-0617 3.00 0.00 0.00 0.11 3.11    0.04 95 93 T/C
EM3-0208 2.99 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.11    0.04 95 93 T/C
EM3-0284 2.98 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.12    0.05 95 93 T/C
EM3-0071 2.98 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.14    0.05 95 94 T/C
EM3-0653 2.98 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.14    0.05 95 93 T/C
EM3-0577 2.98 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.13    0.05 94 93 T/C
EM3-1117 2.96 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.13    0.05 94 93 T/C
EM3-0573 2.96 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.08    0.04 94 92 T/C
EM3-0730 2.96 0.00 0.06 0.16 3.17    0.05 94 94 T/C
EM3-1184 2.96 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.07    0.04 94 91 T/C
EM3-0515 2.95 0.00 0.00 0.04 3.00    0.01 94 89 T/C
EM3-0638 2.95 0.09 0.00 0.08 3.11    0.03 94 93 T/C
EM3-0990 2.94 0.00 0.00 0.06 3.00    0.02 93 89 T/C
EM3-0301 2.94 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.09    0.05 93 92 T/C
EM3-0333 2.94 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.07    0.05 93 91 T/C
EM3-0132 2.93 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.07    0.05 93 91 T/C
EM3-0467 2.93 0.00 0.00 0.10 3.03    0.03 93 90 T/C
EM3-0424 2.92 0.00 0.00 0.08 2.99    0.03 93 89 T/C
EM3-0611 2.92 0.00 0.00 0.09 3.00    0.03 93 89 T/C
EM3-0633 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.05    0.05 93 91 T/C
EM3-1069 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.06    0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-0477 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.06    0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-0094 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.05    0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-1162 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.02    0.04 92 90 T/C
EM3-0635 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.02    0.04 92 90 T/C
EM3-0898 2.90 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.05    0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-0170 2.90 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.02    0.04 92 90 T/C
EM3-0737 2.90 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.05    0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-0414 2.90 0.00 0.01 0.16 3.06    0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-0555 2.89 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.02    0.04 92 90 T/C
EM3-0871 2.89 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.05    0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-1009 2.89 0.00 0.00 0.11 2.99    0.04 92 89 T/C
EM3-0868 2.88 0.00 0.01 0.14 3.04    0.05 92 90 T/C
EM3-0928 2.88 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.01    0.04 91 90 T/C
EM3-0558 2.87 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.02    0.05 91 90 T/C
EM3-0383 2.87 0.00 0.00 0.07 2.93    0.02 91 87 T/C
EM3-0726 2.86 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.96    0.03 91 88 T/C

                                 -39
EM3-0832 2.86 0.00 0.00 0.04 2.89    0.01 91 86 T/C
EM3-0670 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.99    0.05 91 89 T/C
EM3-0434 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.14 2.99    0.05 91 89 T/C
EM3-0066 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.08 2.92    0.03 90 87 T/C
EM3-0925 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.95    0.03 90 88 T/C
EM3-1182 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.98    0.05 90 89 T/C
EM3-1032 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.06 2.91    0.02 90 87 T/C
EM3-1108 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.11 2.95    0.04 90 88 T/C
EM3-1076 2.84 0.00 0.00 0.16 2.99    0.05 90 89 T/C
EM3-0496 2.84 0.00 0.00 0.09 2.93    0.03 90 87 T/C
EM3-0181 2.83 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.95    0.04 90 88 T/C
EM3-1002 2.82 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.95    0.04 90 88 T/C
EM3-0428 2.82 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.93    0.04 89 87 T/C
EM3-0304 2.81 0.00 0.00 0.14 2.95    0.05 89 88 T/C
EM3-1148 2.81 0.00 0.00 0.09 2.90    0.03 89 86 T/C
EM3-0480 2.81 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.90    0.03 89 86 T/C
EM3-0533 2.80 0.12 0.00 0.14 3.06    0.05 89 91 T/C
EM3-0365 2.79 0.00 0.00 0.05 2.84    0.02 89 85 T/C
EM3-0238 2.78 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.91    0.04 88 86 T/C
EM3-1197 2.78 0.00 0.00 0.09 2.87    0.03 88 85 T/C
EM3-0435 2.78 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.90    0.04 88 86 T/C
EM3-0788 2.77 0.00 0.00 0.09 2.85    0.03 88 85 T/C
EM3-0731 2.76 0.00 0.00 0.14 2.91    0.05 88 86 T/C
EM3-0984 2.76 0.00 0.00 0.08 2.84    0.03 88 84 T/C
EM3-1001 2.74 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.85    0.04 87 85 T/C
EM3-0729 2.73 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.87    0.05 87 85 T/C
EM3-0549 2.73 0.00 0.00 0.11 2.84    0.04 87 84 T/C
EM3-0371 2.73 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.86    0.05 87 85 T/C
EM3-0791 2.72 0.00 0.00 0.09 2.81    0.03 86 84 T/C
EM3-0739 2.71 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.81    0.04 86 84 T/C
EM3-0283 2.70 0.00 0.00 0.14 2.84    0.05 86 85 T/C
EM3-1114 2.70 0.00 0.00 0.14 2.84    0.05 86 85 T/C
EM3-0651 2.70 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.82    0.04 86 84 T/C
EM3-0566 2.70 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.81    0.04 86 84 T/C
EM3-0131 2.69 0.00 0.00 0.15 2.84    0.05 86 85 T/C
EM3-0358 2.68 0.00 0.00 0.06 2.74    0.02 85 82 T/C
EM3-0382 2.68 0.00 0.00 0.05 2.73    0.02 85 81 T/C
EM3-1151 2.67 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.81    0.05 85 84 T/C
EM3-0275 2.67 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.78    0.04 85 83 T/C
EM3-0713 2.66 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.76    0.04 84 82 T/C
EM3-1036 2.66 0.00 0.00 0.05 2.71    0.02 84 81 T/C
EM3-0728 2.65 0.00 0.00 0.11 2.77    0.04 84 82 T/C
EM3-0834 2.65 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.78    0.05 84 83 T/C

                                                    -40
      EM3-0281    2.64   0.00   0.00   0.02    2.67      0.01      84       79    T/C
      EM3-0376    2.64   0.00   0.00   0.09    2.73      0.04      84       81    T/C
      EM3-0615    2.64   0.00   0.00   0.14    2.78      0.05      84       83    T/C
      EM3-0528    2.63   0.00   0.00   0.12    2.75      0.05      84       82    T/C
      EM3-0305    2.63   0.00   0.00   0.10    2.73      0.04      84       81    T/C
      EM3-0322    2.61   0.00   0.00   0.12    2.74      0.05      83       81    T/C
      EM3-0560    2.60   0.09   0.00   0.12    2.81      0.05      83       84    T/C
      EM3-0492    2.60   0.00   0.00   0.10    2.70      0.04      82       80    T/C
      EM3-0293    2.59   0.00   0.00   0.11    2.70      0.04      82       80    T/C
      EM3-0794    2.58   0.00   0.00   0.08    2.67      0.03      82       79    T/C
      EM3-0894    2.57   0.00   0.00   0.10    2.66      0.04      81       79    T/C
      EM3-0608    2.56   0.17   0.00   0.12    2.85      0.05      81       85    T/C
      EM3-0767    2.55   0.00   0.00   0.10    2.65      0.04      81       79    T/C
      EM3-1118    2.55   0.00   0.00   0.13    2.68      0.05      81       80    T/C
      EM3-0538    2.55   0.00   0.00   0.02    2.57      0.01      81       76    T/C
      EM3-0892    2.53   0.00   0.00   0.13    2.65      0.05      80       79    T/C
      EM3-0857    2.49   0.09   0.00   0.13    2.71      0.05      79       81    T/C
      EM3-0246    2.48   0.00   0.00   0.07    2.56      0.03      79       76    T/C
      EM3-0389    2.42   0.10   0.00   0.05    2.57      0.02      77       76    T/C
      EM3-0298    2.36   0.00   0.00   0.06    2.42      0.03      75       72    T/C
      EM3-0825    2.32   0.00   0.00   0.09    2.42      0.04      74       72    T/C
      EM3-0297    2.30   0.00   0.00   0.10    2.40      0.04      73       71    T/C
      EM3-0644    2.25   0.00   0.00   0.07    2.31      0.03      71       69    T/C
      EM3-1075    2.12   0.00   0.00   0.07    2.19      0.03      67       65    T/C
   MOCT is the alkaloid combination of morphine, oripavine, codeine and thebaine.
   2.       M3 Disease resistance/phenotype screening trial
 5          A disease resistance screening field trial (Hagley, Tasmania, Australia) was also
   conducted during the 2012/13 poppy growing season. A subset of 11 mutant lines
   identified on the basis of phenotype in the M2 (field) and M3 (greenhouse) generations
   described above were selected for inclusion in this trial, including the 'Tasman' line
   EM4-0045 derived from parent line PW08-2308 by mutagenesis treatment with EMS
10 as described in Example 1. The primary aim of this trial was to determine if the altered
   phenotypes resulted in any improvement in resistance to, or tolerance of, downy
   mildew (Peronosporameconosidis, previously known as Peronosporaarborescens)
   infection. This trial was also an additional opportunity to further study plant
   phenotypes under field conditions.

                                                  -41
            M4 seed, bulked from multiple M3 plants of each line grown in the greenhouse
   over the winter of 2013, was used to sow this trial. The trial was a randomized
   complete-block-design with 3 blocks/replicates per line, each replicate was sown a
   1.8m wide x 2.0m long plot. The trial crop was not sprayed with any preventative or
 5 curative fungicides. Plants were allowed to mature and dry under field conditions, and
   30 capsules were then harvested from each plot and combined for each individual
   replicate assay. Each 30-capsule-sample was threshed to remove seed to produce
   poppy straw, the straw was then weighed and ground, and the ground straw was
   extracted in 2% acetic acid and 10% ethanol in distilled water as described above. An
10 aliquot of the extract was filtered prior to the UPLC analysis of alkaloid content and
   alkaloid profile as also described above. Data derived from the three replicate plots
   was analysed in Agrobase Generation II (Agronomix Software) using GLM (General
   Linear Model) analysis to produce an overall trial mean for each alkaloid in each M3
   line.
15          There was no expectation that altered phenotypes of the mutant lines would
   result in an increase in alkaloid content, so the actual mutagenesis parent line (PW08
   2308) was not been entered in the trial for comparison. However, 'Tasman' mutant
   line EM4-0045 surprisingly exhibited high-total alkaloid content and an altered leaf
   phenotype characterized by light-green leaves (see Fig. 2).
20          In a subsequent field trial (data not shown), the EM4-0045 light-green 'Tasman'
   mutant line exhibited a 5% increase in codeine relative to the parent line PW08-2308.
   Apart from the light green leaf colour, the phenotype of this line appears to be
   unchanged relative to the parent line, PW08-2308. As such, there appears to be no
   reason why the EM4-0045 mutant cannot be grown commercially.
25
   3.       Discussion
            Various M2 plants were selected on the basis of altered phenotypes as outlined
   in Example 1. Some of these phenotypes were also present when M3 plants, derived
30 from these M2 plants, were grown in various M3 screening trials. This demonstrates
   that these phenotypes are the result of stable, heritable, genetic changes, as the altered
   phenotypes were consistent across generations and environments.

                                                 -42
           An unexpected result from these trials was the identification of mutant lines
   that exhibited lighter coloured leaves (i.e., lighter green or yellow) and which
   contained high alkaloid content, suggesting a possible relationship between the altered
   leaf colour in these lines and alkaloid accumulation. These plants were not initially
 5 considered as being of interest in the M2 screen, and were harvested simply as a
   curiosity. Growing M3 seed from these lines in the greenhouse highlighted that these
   mutant phenotypes were both stable and heritable. Mutant line EM4-0045 in particular
   showed remarkably good vigour and its phenotype was largely unchanged relative to
   the parent line PW08-2308 other than the obvious difference in leaf colour. This line
10 was included in the 2012/2013 disease resistance screening field trial to assess whether
   their phenotypic differences altered their level of resistance to downy mildew infection
   (Peronosporameconosidis). Whilst this proved to not to be the case and no apparent
   enhancement in protection against downy mildew infection was observed, the EM4
   0045 (light-green leaf) 'Tasman' mutant exhibited very high codeine content with low
15 thebaine contamination, a most striking and unexpected result. As a consequence, the
   EM4-0045 line was advanced to additional field trials for further assessment.
           Overall, M3 Papaversomniferum mutant 'Tasman' lines were identified which
   showed an increase in codeine content relative to the parent line from which they were
   derived, as well as mutant 'Tasman' lines which also exhibited a reduction in thebaine
20 content relative to codeine content. Given the nature of mutagenesis, the complex
   nature of alkaloid biosynthesis pathways in Papaversomniferum and the involvement
   of feedback mechanisms and the like as described above, it could not be predicted at
   the outset if any desirable changes in alkaloid content or profile were possible or if they
   could even be achieved via mutagenesis, which typically results in point mutations that
25 either knock out or have a detrimental effect on gene function. Further, it could not be
   ascertained or predicted in advance as to whether any plants having altered phenotypes
   could be useful commercially.
   EXAMPLE 3:              Breeding material field trial (Hagley, Tasmania, Australia)
30
           A total of 82 mutant 'Tasman' M3 lines produced in Example 1 and their parent
   line, PW08-2308, were included in this field trial. The trial was conducted in a

                                                 -43
   paddock (Hagley, Tasmania, Australia) during the 2013/14 poppy growing season, and
   was sown on 6 September 2013. The trial was a randomized-complete-block design
   consisting of 2 blocks/replicates of each M3 line. Each replicate was sown in a single,
   5m long row within a 5m x 1.8 m plot that contained five individual rows. A visual
 5 assessment of plant phenotype was conducted prior to flowering. Plants were allowed
   to mature and dry under field conditions, and all of the capsules from plants in each
   row were then harvested (on 5 February 2014) and pooled for analysis of seed and
   straw weight, and alkaloid content and profile. Capsules were weighed and threshed to
   remove seed to produce straw. The straw was weighed and ground, and the ground
10 straw was extracted in 2% acetic acid and 10% ethanol in distilled water as described
   above. An aliquot of the extract was filtered prior to UPLC analysis of alkaloid
   content and alkaloid profile as also described above. The results for each M3 line were
   analysed in Agrobase Generation II (Agronomix Software) using GLM (General
   Linear Model) analysis and compared to the parent line, PW08-2308, and are set out
15 below in Table 2.
   Table 2:        Alkaloid content of poppy straw of selected Papaversomniferum M3
   lines
                      Line   Codeine    Thebaine      %C     Total   T/C  Codeine
                                (C)       (T)           of   T+C    ratio   yield
                             (%w/w)     (%w/w)       PW08-  (%w/w)        (kg/Ha)
                                                      2308
                PW08-2308       3.5       0.4          100    3.9   0.11    29.0
                 EM3-0352       4.2       0.5          120    4.6   0.11    43.9
                 EM3-0006       4.1       0.1          119    4.2   0.02    49.8
                 EM3-0106       4.1       0.3          118    4.4   0.07    34.5
                 EM3-0587       4.1       0.4          116    4.5   0.11    39.4
                 EM3-0455       4.0       0.3          116    4.3   0.07    39.8
                 EM3-1026       4.0       0.2          116    4.2   0.04    70.6
                 EM3-0426       4.0       0.1          116    4.2   0.04    26.3
                 EM3-1123       4.0       0.3          115    4.3   0.07    41.3
                 EM3-0505       4.0       0.4          115    4.4   0.09    58.2
                 EM3-0350       4.0       0.3          114    4.3   0.07    60.3
                 EM3-0766       3.9       0.5          113    4.4   0.13    21.7
                 EM3-1125       3.9       0.3          113    4.2   0.04    37.3
                 EM3-1136       3.9       0.2          112    4.1   0.06    46.9

                 -44
EM3-0479 3.9 0.2     112 4.1 0.05 56.7
EM3-1164 3.9 0.2     112 4.1 0.05 49.4
EM3-1179 3.9 0.1     112 4.1 0.02 39.0
EM3-0733 3.9 0.3     111 4.2 0.08 69.6
EM3-0408 3.9 0.1     111 4.0 0.04 47.3
EM3-1045 3.9 0.8     111 4.6 0.20 34.2
EM3-0407 3.8 0.3     110 4.2 0.08 49.6
EM3-0686 3.8 0.3     109 4.2 0.09 61.5
EM3-1124 3.8 0.1     109 3.9 0.04  2.9
EM3-1138 3.8 0.1     109 3.9 0.04 17.3
EM3-0056 3.8 0.2     108 4.1 0.06 30.3
EM3-0826 3.8 0.2     108 4.0 0.05 43.2
EM3-0285 3.8 0.2     108 4.0 0.07 58.4
EM3-0331 3.8 0.4     108 4.3 0.10 57.3
EM3-0023 3.8 0.2     108 4.1 0.06 51.2
EM3-0411 3.8 0.4     108 4.1 0.10 41.3
EM3-0191 3.7 0.3     107 4.3 0.05 29.0
EM3-1196 3.7 0.3     107 4.1 0.09 21.5
EM3-0592 3.7 0.4     107 4.1 0.10 46.3
EM3-0072 3.7 0.3     107 4.1 0.08 45.1
EM3-0111 3.7 0.3     107 4.0 0.07 28.2
EM3-1122 3.7 0.2     107 3.9 0.05 30.1
EM3-0018 3.7 0.3     107 4.0 0.04 45.0
EM3-1112 3.7 0.4     106 4.1 0.12 25.1
EM3-0448 3.7 0.5     106 4.3 0.13 35.0
EM3-0607 3.7 0.3     106 4.0 0.09 72.0
EM3-0674 3.7 0.4     106 4.1 0.10 43.2
EM3-0637 3.7 0.2     106 3.9 0.05 24.7
EM3-0076 3.7 0.4     105 4.1 0.11 40.6
EM3-0519 3.7 0.3     105 4.0 0.08 64.2
EM3-0476 3.7 0.1     105 3.8 0.02 47.9
EM3-1011 3.7 0.4     105 4.1 0.11 57.7
EM3-1007 3.7 0.2     105 3.9 0.06 22.0
EM3-0619 3.6 0.3     104 4.0 0.09 42.4
EM3-1132 3.6 0.4     104 4.1 0.12 37.6
EM3-1166 3.6 0.3     103 3.9 0.09 16.2
EM3-0585 3.6 0.4     103 4.0 0.11 22.0
EM3-0390 3.6 0.2     103 3.8 0.06 45.3
EM3-0241 3.6 0.3     103 4.0 0.09 53.4
EM3-0584 3.6 0.3     103 3.9 0.09 34.0
EM3-0058 3.6 0.5     102 4.1 0.08 60.6
EM3-1020 3.5 0.2     102 3.8 0.07 46.8
EM3-0552 3.5 0.3     101 4.0 0.09 30.0
EM3-1180 3.5 0.2     101 3.9 0.07 37.3

                                                  -45
                  EM3-0539       3.5        0.2        101      3.8    0.07   23.7
                  EM3-0764       3.5        0.9        101      4.4    0.13   58.7
                  EM3-0034       3.5        0.5        101      4.0    0.16   36.0
                  EM3-0551       3.5        0.4        101      3.9    0.06   47.7
                  EM3-0307       3.5        0.2        100      3.8    0.06   34.0
                  EM3-1131       3.5        0.3        100      3.7    0.07   71.7
                  EM3-0205       3.5        0.3        100      3.8    0.08   39.4
                  EM3-0801       3.5        0.5         99      4.0    0.14   32.9
                  EM3-0361       3.4        0.2         99      3.9    0.04   58.4
                  EM3-0506       3.4        0.4         99      3.9    0.13   49.0
                  EM3-1147       3.4        0.4         98      3.8    0.06   46.5
                  EM3-1198       3.4        0.9         97      4.3    0.27   30.4
                  EM3-1171       3.3        0.4         95      3.7    0.11   28.5
                  EM3-0095       3.3        0.5         94      3.9    0.14   27.7
                  EM3-1199       3.3        0.8         94      4.1    0.28   50.1
                  EM3-0320       3.3        0.7         94      4.0    0.23   43.9
                  EM3-1191       3.2        0.5         92      3.9    0.19   27.2
                  EM3-0449       3.2        0.7         91      3.8    0.22   23.3
                  EM3-0532       3.1        0.4         90      3.6    0.12   21.5
                  EM3-0934       3.1        0.4         88      3.7    0.14   33.5
                  EM3-0643       2.9        0.5         84      3.8    0.19   21.0
                  EM3-1195       2.9        0.3         84      3.8    0.11   25.1
                  EM3-0438       2.8        0.2         81      3.8    0.06   25.8
                  EM3-0618       2.8        0.6         81      3.6    0.10   38.7
                  EM3-0536       2.5        0.6         71      3.1    0.32   30.7
            Of the 82 lines tested, 61 showed improvement in codeine content relative to
   the PW08-2308 parent line. The best of these M3 lines, EM3-0352, exhibited a 20%
   improvement in codeine content. Interestingly, the next best M3 line, EM3-0006,
 5 which exhibited a 19% improvement in codeine content, also exhibited a very obvious
   light yellow-leaf phenotype. This result is consistent with the study described in
   Example 2 above which show high-alkaloid content in other M3 lines that exhibit a
   similar light leaf colour phenotype compared to the parent line PW08-2308. The co
   occurrence of the lighter (light-green and light-yellow) leaf colour traits in several
10 independent mutant lines suggests mutations in genes that can either directly, or
   indirectly, influence leaf colour as well as alkaloid content and alkaloid profile.
            In addition to those lines that exhibited increases in codeine content, 56 M3
   lines also exhibited lower thebaine content relative to codeine (T/C), than PW08-2308,
   which exhibited a T/C value of 0.11. The best of these M3 lines were EM3-0006 (light

                                                  -46
   yellow leaf phenotype), EM3-1179 and EM3-0476, which all exhibited a T/C of 0.02.
   This suggests that, in the current trial location and season these lines were more
   efficient at converting thebaine through to codeine. When coupled with a high codeine
   content this low T/C trait is particularly valuable as it maximizes the amount of
 5 codeine available for extraction whilst reducing the level of thebaine that needs to be
   removed during factory processing.
   EXAMPLE 4:                Multi-location trials
10          Six field trials were sown in the 2014/15 poppy growing season with the
   purpose of identifying mutant Tasman lines with wide adaptability to different growing
   regions. The trials contained 18 entries including 3 commercially grown high codeine
   'Tasman' Papaversomniferum producing lines, namely PW08-2308, PW1 1-4027 and
   PW 11-4118. The trials were sown across a wide geographical distribution (Tunbridge,
15 Cressy, Perth, Hagley, Latrobe, and North Motton), representing a diverse range of
   poppy growing regions in Tasmania, Australia. Each trial was sown within a poppy
   paddock and was treated the same as the surrounding crop in regards to herbicide,
   fertilizer, fungicide and irrigation treatments. Trial plants were not sprayed with any
   plant growth regulators.
20          Plants were allowed to mature and dry under field conditions. Immediately
   prior to the harvest of the surrounding commercial crop, all capsules from within a
   designated quadrat were hand-harvested from each trial plot. The harvested straw
   samples therefore consisted only of plant capsules and seed and contained no plant
   stems. All harvested material was stored for up to one month before being threshed to
25 remove seed. These straw samples were ground, and the ground straw was extracted in
   2% acetic acid and 10% ethanol in distilled water as described above. An aliquot of
   the extract was filtered prior to UPLC analysis of alkaloid content and alkaloid profile
   as also described above.
            For each individual trial site, the alkaloid (%w/w) results for the three replicates
30 of each M3 line were analysed in Agrobase Generation II (Agronomix Software) using
   "Alpha" analysis to produce a mean value for that M3 line at that trial site. An overall
   trial mean for each alkaloid (%w/w), from across the 6 trial sites, was then determined

                                                  -47
   in Agrobase Generation II using the GxE Analysis function "ANOVA-combined
   RCBD: ENV. X ENTRY model. These overall trial means for codeine and thebaine
   content and related traits for these trials are shown in Table 3.
 5 Table 3:        Codeine and thebaine content of poppy straw from Papaversomniferum
   lines in 2014/2015 field trials
                                                                                    C
                                                                          C
             PW08-2308     3.50   0.35    3.89    0.09  47.78  6.00  100  100 100 100
             PW11-4027     3.52   0.29    3.85    0.09  45.79  4.43  101   83  99   96
             PW11-4118     3.57   0.29    3.90    0.10  44.68  4.45  102   81 100   94
              EM4-0045     4.01   0.20    4.21    0.06  49.26  2.29 115 56    108  103
              EM3-1204     3.88   0.21    4.07    0.06  48.86  2.99 111 61    105  102
              EM3-1217     3.83   0.31    4.17    0.09  49.44  5.60 11091 90  1071 1031
              EM3-0056     3.73   0.41    4.16    0.12  44.30  5.32 107 116   107   93
              EM4-0270     3.64   0.30    3.95    0.08  42.53  3.87 104 85    102   89
              EM3-1203     3.44   0.56    4.02    0.18  44.60  8.36 98 159    103   93
              EM3-1213    13.39   0.33    3.77    0.07  37.41  4.23 97     94  97   78
           Of the 7 mutant 'Tasman' lines evaluated in the present trials, 5 of the lines
10 showed an improvement in codeine content (relative to the predominant commercial
   variety, PW08-2308) of between 4 and 15 % on a %w/w basis. The best of these new
   lines was the light-green leaf mutant line EM4-0045, which exhibited the highest
   codeine content at 4 of the 6 trial sites.
           Mutant lines EM3-1204 and EM3-1217 both showed high vigour and exhibited
15 improvements in codeine content of 11% and 9 %w/w, respectively, compared to
   PW08-2308.

                                                   -48
             Although thebaine is the precursor to codeine in the alkaloid synthesis pathway
   it is considered to be an undesirable 'impurity" in poppy straw and latex for the
   production of codeine as it has negative implications for codeine extraction efficiency
   and thereby yield. A key criteria is, therefore, to minimize the amount of thebaine in
 5 poppy straw harvested for codeine production. The relevant measure of this trait, "tc",
   is the amount of thebaine relative to the main alkaloid, codeine (tc=thebaine/codeine).
   In the 2014/15 season, the tc was 0.09 in PW08-2308, 0.10 in PW1 1-4118 and 0.09 in
   PW 11-4027. In the present field trials, the mutant 'Tasman' lines with the highest
   codeine content (EM4-0045 and EM3-1204) both had a tc value of 0.06 in the trials.
10 Moreover, both the EM4-0045 light green leaf mutant line and the EM3-1204 line
   displayed a substantially reduced level of thebaine relative to codeine compared to the
   parent line PW08-2308 from which they were derived.
             Whilst of the 3 Papaversomniferum commercial lines both PW 11-4118 and
   PW1 1-4027 exhibited lower thebaine to codeine levels than the PW08-2308, the 3 lines
15 otherwise displayed very similar impurity profiles in the present trials. Other than the
   altered codeine and thebaine content of the poppy straw of the mutant 'Tasman' lines,
   those lines also showed very similar levels of impurity alkaloids the parent line PW08
   2308 from which they were derived.
            Papaversomniferum 'Tasman' lines generally exhibit even development, high
20 vigour, and early flowering, a near absence of the twisted stem trait, and moderate
   resistance to down mildew (DM) infection. In the present field trials all but 1 (EM3
   0056), exhibited very suitable phenotypes for being grown commercially.
             In particular, of the 7 mutant lines included in these trials, EM3-1204, EM3
   1217, and EM3-1203 all showed exceptional vigour. Clearly these lines do not contain
25 mutations that have a negative visible impact on plant growth and development. The
   EM4-0045 (light-green leaf mutant) line in particular showed very good vigour across
   all trials, and a growth habit that was consistent with the commercially grown parent
   'Tasman' line (PW08-2308) from which it was derived. This was unexpected given
   the light-green coloration of the leaves of these plants particularly during the vegetative
30 stages of plant development. This colour difference between the mutant and the parent
   line was less obvious closer to flowering although it was still readily apparent in flower
   stems and capsules.

                                                 -49
           The observed increased codeine content and decreased t/c ratio of the EM4
   0045 line relative to the parent line PW08-2308 is consistent with results for the EM4
   0045 line from other field trials.
           Given the above results it appears the mutation that results in the light green
 5 leaves in the EM4-0045 line does not cause negative pleiotropic effects on plant vigour
   and further, that this line does not contain other unrelated EMS-induced mutations that
   visibly affect plant growth, development and/or plant vigour.
   EXAMPLE 5:             Evaluation of leaf colour of Papaver somnferum line EM4
10 0045
           In addition to alkaloid differences, the EM4-0045 line exhibits a substantially
   lighter leaf and stem colour in comparison to the parental line PW08-2308. This colour
   difference is highly marked in field grown plants. To quantify this colour difference,
15 spectrophotometer analysis was conducted on leaf tissues obtained from polyhouse
   grown plants. Also included in this analysis was a second high codeine line (EM3
   0006) which has a light yellow leaf colour phenotype.
   1.      Plant growing conditions
20         Plants were grown in a polyhouse at Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty Ltd, Westbury,
   Tasmania during the 2016 winter season. Seeds were sown on 23 June 2016 in 20cm
   diameter pots which contained a potting mix consisting of equal parts peat moss and
   composted pine bark. Once sown, seeds were covered with a thin (~0.5 cm) layer of
   vermiculite and grown under an 18 hour light/8 hour dark photoperiod through use of
25 supplemental lighting (high pressure sodium lamps; Horti Master greenPower, 600W
   400v, E40). Automated irrigation and climate control systems were used to maintain
   pot moisture content at 30-40%volume and polyhouse day and night temperatures at
    ~20'C and ~15'C, respectively.
           Following germination, seedlings were thinned to 5 plants per pot. A granular
30 slow-release fertiliser was added to each pot on 9 August 2016 (~1 g of Basacote Plus
   3M; COMPO GmbH & Co. KG).

                                                  -50
   2.      Tissue sampling
           A single leaf from each of ten individual EM4-0045, EM3-0006 and PW08
   2308 plants was analysed by spectrophotometry. Leaves were abscised at the stem and
   immediately transferred to the Chemical Research and Development laboratory at
 5 Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty Ltd, Westbury, Tasmania for analysis. As Papaver
   somniferum plants grow, older leaves towards the base of the plant begin to show
   visible signs of senescence. Therefore, younger leaves occurring towards the top of the
   stem which showed no visible signs of senescence and which were of a suitable size for
   spectrophotometer analysis (> 10 cm long       x > 5 cm wide) were selected for analysis.
10 For 19 out of 20 EM4-0045 and PW08-2308 plants, the fifth youngest leaf was sampled
   from plants (e.g., the leaf at the fifth leaf node down from the apical meristem). One
   PW08-2308 plant was sampled at the fourth youngest leaf due to the fifth leaf being
   damaged. In comparison to EM4-0045 and PW08-2308 lines, plants of the EM3-0006
   line exhibit reduced vigour and delayed plant development. All plants were sampled
15 on 18 August 2016, 57 days after sowing. At this time, plants of EM4-0045 and
   PW08-2308 lines were 70-90 cm tall and in the early- to mid-hook developmental
   stage. In contrast, EM3-0006 line plants were shorter and in the running up stage.
           The plants sampled for spectrophotometer analysis had been grown as part of a
   larger study involving two additional lines. In total, the experimental population
20 comprised nine pots of each of five lines sown in a complete randomised block design.
   To obtain the 10 plants used for spectrophotometer analysis, a single plant was sampled
   from each of the nine PW08-2308, EM4-0045 and EM3-0006 pots, respectively, with
   each plant being randomly selected from within each pot. A tenth plant for each line
   was then obtained by sampling a second plant from one randomly selected pot.
25
   3.      Spectrophotometer analysis
           Spectrophotometry measurements were performed using a HunterLab UltraScan
   PRO spectrophotometer (Hunter Associates Laboratory, Virginia, USA). Reflectance
   (specular included) was measured on the upper-third region of each leaf (adaxial
30 surface) using D65 illumination. Leaves were backed by a white tile and held against
   the 0.390" port by the instrument's spring loaded clamp arm. Using reflectance
   measurements, CIE 1976 L*a*b* and tristmulus XYZ values were calculated using

                                                     -51
      EasyMatch QC software (Hunter Associates Laboratory, Virginia, USA). To obtain the
      dominant wavelength values for each line, chromaticity x,y coordinates were firstly
      obtained by calculating CIE xyY values from XYZ values; where x = X / (X + Y + Z)
      and y = Y / (X + Y +Z). Each of these sample coordinates, in addition to the x,y
 5    coordinates of the D65 illuminant (x    =  0.31382, y  = 0.33100; CIE 1964 10'), were then
      plotted on a chromaticity graph drawn in Microsoft Excel 2010 using CIE 1964 10'
      chromaticity coordinates (0.lnm interval values). A straight line was then drawn
      between the x,y coordinates of each line and the illuminant, respectively, with the line
      extrapolated out so as to intersect with the spectral locus    XD (i.e., the dominant
10    wavelength value).
      4.       Results
               Spectrophotometer results and dominant wavelength values are presented in
      Table 4 for each of the three lines examined. As expected, the yellow leaf EM3-0006
15    line was detected as being substantially lighter in colour (L* = 66.92 vs. 43.82 to 45.25;
      where L* = 0 is black) and more yellow (b* = 57.698 vs. 18.20 to 22.69; where greater
      positive values on the b* axis represent higher yellow colour values) in comparison to
      both PW08-2308 and EM4-0045 lines. These differences were reflected in dominant
      wavelength values, with the EM3-0006 line having a higher dominant wavelength of
20    568nm (Table 4).
      Table 4:         Spectrophotometry results (mean values for each line) and dominant
      wavelength values
                                                                          CIE xyY colour
                  CIE 1976 L*a*b*        CIE 1931 XYZ colour space              space         Dominant
    Line                                                                                     wavelength
               L*         a*      b*       X           Y         Z          x           y       (nm)
   PW08-
                                                                                                 560
   2308      43.822     -9.858  18.200   11.5824     13.7306   8.2301     0.3453      0.4093
   EM4-
                                                                                                 561
   0045      45.250    -11.040  22.690   12.3415     14.7912   7.6749     0.3546      0.4249
   EM3-
                                                                                                 568
   0006      66.920     -7.449  57.698  32.6997      36.6827   8.3704     0.4206      0.4718
      aCalculated using CIE 1964 100 standard observer and illuminant D65
25

                                                -52
   5.       Discussion
            When grown under common field conditions, the leaves of plants of the
   EM4-0045 line have a distinct light green-yellow appearance when compared to typical
   green Papaversomniferum poppy plants such as PW08-2308. Although the colour
 5 distinction between the polyhouse-grown EM4-0045 and PW08-2308 line plants
   examined in this study was less pronounced than what is typically observed under field
   conditions, spectrophotometry analysis did identify colour differences and detect the
   EM4-0045 line as being lighter and more yellow in colour, as evidenced by a dominant
   wavelength value of 561nm for EM4-045 in comparison to 560nm for PW08-2308 (see
10 Table 4).
            The dominant wavelength values indicate that all three lines had leaf colours
   within the green-yellow colour spectrum. Thus, the three lines can be described as
   having green-yellow (PW08-2308), light green-yellow (EM4-045) and very light
   green-yellow (EM3-0006) leaf colours.
15
            While the foregoing specification teaches the principles of the present invention,
   with examples provided for the purpose of illustration, it will be understood that the
   practice of the invention encompasses variations, adaptations and/or modifications as
   come within the scope of the following claims.
20

                                               -53
   CLAIMS
   1.      A poppy straw yielded by poppy capsules harvested from a mutated plant of
   Papaversomniferum derived from a parent plant and having a stably heritable codeine
 5 chemotype characterised by a higher codeine content by weight than a combined
   morphine and thebaine content, or from a descendent of the mutated plant, wherein the
   codeine chemotype of the mutated plant is such that the poppy straw has a higher
   codeine content by weight and a lower thebaine to codeine ratio than the parent plant.
   2.      The poppy straw according to claim 1 wherein the mutated plant has a trait for
10 light leaf colour whereby the leaves of the plant have a colour that is visually lighter
   relative to the leaves of the parent plant.
   3.      The poppy straw according to claim 2, wherein the colour of the leaves is in the
   green-yellow colour spectrum and has a dominant wavelength in a range of from about
   561nm to about 568nm as determined by reflective spectrophotometry of the adaxial
15 leaf surface using D65 illumination.
   4.      The poppy straw according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the trait is associated with
   the codeine content and lower thebaine to codeine ratio of the poppy straw, and the
   parent plant does not have the trait.
   5.      The poppy straw according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the poppy straw
20 has a codeine content of about 2.5% or greater on a w/w basis.
   6.      The poppy straw according to claim 5, wherein the poppy straw has a codeine
   content of about 3.0% or greater on a w/w basis.
   7.      The poppy straw according to claim 6, wherein the poppy straw has a codeine
   content of about 3 .5% or greater on a w/w basis.
25 8.      The poppy straw according to claim 7, wherein the poppy straw has a codeine
   content of about 4% or greater on a w/w basis.
   9.      The poppy straw according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the poppy straw
   has a thebaine to codeine ratio of about 25% or less on a w/w basis.
   10.     The poppy straw according to claim 9, wherein the poppy straw has a thebaine
30 to codeine ratio of about 15% or less on a w/w basis.
   11.     The poppy straw according to claim 10, wherein the poppy straw has a thebaine
   to codeine ratio of about 10% or less on a w/w basis.

                                               -54
   12.     The poppy straw according to claim 11, wherein the poppy straw has a thebaine
   to codeine of about 7.5% or less on a w/w basis.
   13.     The poppy straw according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein there is
   substantially no morphine or oripavine in poppy straw of the parent plant.
 5 14.     The poppy straw according to any one of claims I to 13, wherein there is
   substantially no morphine in the poppy straw of the mutated plant.
   15.     The poppy straw according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein there is
   substantially no oripavine in the poppy straw of the mutated plant.
   16.     A method for producing codeine, comprising;
10         (a)     obtaining a poppy straw from poppy capsules harvested from a plant of
   P. somniferum with a stably heritable codeine chemotype as defined in any one of
   claims 1 to 15, or from a descendant plant thereof; and
           (b)     extracting the codeine from the poppy straw obtained in step (a).
   17.     The method according to claim 16, wherein the poppy straw obtained in step (a)
15 has a codeine content which is about 4% or greater than poppy straw of the parent plant
   on a w/w basis.
   18.     The method according to claim 17, wherein the poppy straw obtained in step a)
   has a codeine content which is about 10% or greater than poppy straw of the parent
   plant on a w/w basis.
20 19.     The method according to claim 18, wherein the poppy straw obtained in step a)
   has a codeine content which is about 15% or greater than poppy straw of the parent
   plant on a w/w basis.
   20.     The method according to any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein the poppy straw
   obtained in step a) has a thebaine content which is about 40% or less than poppy straw
25 of the parent plant on a w/w basis.
   21.     The method according to claim 20, wherein the poppy straw obtained in step a)
   has a thebaine content which is about 20% or less than poppy straw of the parent plant
   on a w/w basis.
   22.     The method according to claim 21, wherein the poppy straw of the plant
30 obtained in step a) has a thebaine content which is about 10% or less than the poppy
   straw of the parent plant on a w/w basis.

                                                -55
   23.     A concentrate of poppy straw being a concentrate of the poppy straw of any of
   claims I to 15.
   24.     A latex for the extraction of codeine being a latex of the plant having a stably
   heritable codeine chemotype as defined in any one of claims I to 15, or of a descendent
 5 plant thereof.
   25.     An opium for the extraction of codeine being an opium of the plant having a
   stably heritable codeine chemotype as defined in any one of claims I to 15, or of a
   descendent plant thereof.
   26.     Codeine extracted from the poppy straw of any one of claims I to 15, the
10 concentrate of poppy straw of claim 23, the latex of claim 24, or the opium of claim 25.
   27.     A poppy straw, concentrate of poppy straw, latex, opium or codeine obtained
   from a plant of Papaversomniferum, wherein the plant is produced by a method
   comprising the steps of:
           a)      providing at least one poppy seed of a Papaversomniferum parent plant,
15 the parent plant being a plant which upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules will yield
   a poppy straw having codeine constituting about 40% by weight or greater of an
   alkaloid combination comprising morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine or
   alternatively, or which upon the drying of latex from its immature poppy capsules will
   yield an opium having codeine constituting about 40% by weight or greater of the
20 alkaloid combination;
           b)      exposing the at least one poppy seed to a mutagenzing agent;
           c)      growing the at least one poppy seed exposed to the mutagenizing agent
   to produce one or more further plants, optionally through one or more self-fertilised
   generations;
25 d)      providing a plant identified from the one or more further plants produced in step
   c) to be a plant having a stably heritable codeine chemotype and which upon the
   harvesting of its poppy capsules or upon the drying of latex from its immature poppy
   capsules, will yield a poppy straw or opium having a higher absolute codeine content
   and a lower thebaine to codeine content, than poppy straw or opium of the parent plant;
30 and
           e)      providing the poppy straw, concentrate of poppy straw, latex, opium or
   codeine from the plant identified in step d), or from a descendent plant thereof.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
