ABSTRACT
An animal monitoring device configured as a bolus for oral administration to reside in an
animal's stomach. The bolus has a substantially inert solid body with a hollow inside space to
receive the animal monitoring device. The animal monitoring device includes a radio frequency
generator, an animal identification information encoder for outputting the animal identification
information of the particular animal. The animal monitoring device can further include sensors to
detect physiological and non-physiological animal characteristics such as temperature and a
sensed animal characteristic encoder for outputting sensed animal characteristic information. The
animal monitoring device intermittently transmits encoded animal identification information and
sensed animal characteristic information to a receiver which transmits the encoded information
as packets to a specialized computer which allows a computer user access to decoded animal
identification information and sensed animal characteristic information as numeric values.

WO 20121054085     PCT/US2011/001788
               1/7

                                    ANIMAL MONITORING SYSTEM
             This patent application claims the benefit of United States Provisional Patent
   Application No. 61/455,419, filed October 19, 2010, hereby incorporated by reference herein.
   1.        TECHNICAL FIELD
 5           Generally, an animal monitoring device is configured as a bolus for oral administration
   to reside in an animal's stomach. The bolus has a substantially inert solid body which is
   contained within an animal monitoring device. The animal monitoring device includes a radio
   frequency generator, an animal identification information encoder for outputting animal
   identification information of the particular animal. The animal monitoring device can further
10 include sensors to detect one or more physiological and non-physiological sensed animal
   characteristics and a sensed animal characteristic encoder for outputting sensed animal
   characteristic information. The animal monitoring device intermittently transmits encoded
   animal identification information and encoded sensed animal characteristic information to a
   radio frequency reader which assembles and transmits encoded information as data packets to a
15 reception device which allows a specialized computer to display decoded animal identification
   information and decoded sensed animal characteristic information as numeric values which can
   be accessed by a user.
   IL        BACKGROUND
             A variety of animal monitoring devices are in use to remotely track animal location and
20 remotely sense the temperature of animals. Certain of these devices include an orally
   administered, inserted, or ingested bolus containing microprocessors for processing animal
   identification information and signals from sensors to provide encoded data representations which
   can be transmitted by radio-frequency to a radio-frequency receiver. However, certain problems
   remain unresolved which relate to the structure and function of the bolus electrical circuitry and
25 the transmission of encoded data representations by these conventional animal monitoring
   devices.
             One problem related to conventional bolus may be that there is no magnet located
   within the bolus which generates a magnetic field to collect metal materials ingested by the
   animal such as wire, nails, screws, tacks, barbed wire, or the like. Alternately, conventional
30 bolus may contain within one or more magnets, but the magnetic field generated may dispose
   attracted metal elements in an orientation which projects outwardly from the bolus. These
   projecting metal elements can cause injury to the animal.
                                                       1

             Another problem related to conventional bolus can be that the magnet has a location
   sufficiently close to or as a part of the components generating the radio-frequency which carries
   encoded data representations generated by the microcontroller or processor elements resulting in
   loss of encoded data representations during transmission to the radio frequency receiver.
 5           Another problem related to conventional bolus may be that the mass of the animal in
   which the bolus has a location can demodulate the frequency of the radio signal such that the
   radio signal has a different frequency at the point of transmission than the frequency of the radio
   signal after passing through the mass of the animal. Accordingly, encoded data representations
   can be intermittently interrupted or portions or all of the transmitted encoded data representations
10 can be lost.
             The animal monitoring system described herein provided is directed to overcoming or at
   least ameliorating one or more of the problems described above.
   III.      DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION
             In accordance with an aspect of the invention, an animal monitoring system comprises a)
15 an inert bolus body adapted to allow oral administration to a ruminant animal; b) an animal
   monitoring device having a location inside said inert bolus body; and c) a first magnet having a
   location inside inert bolus body. The animal monitoring device includes i) at least one sensor
   which generates a signal which varies in relation to change in a sensed animal characteristic; ii) a
   sensor signal encoder which encodes said signal generated by said at least one sensor as encoded
20 sensed animal characteristic information; iii) a radio frequency signal generator which generates a
   radio frequency signal capable of carrying said encoded sensed animal characteristic information;
   iv) an antenna which transmits said radio frequency signal; and v) a power source which supplies
   power to said animal monitoring device.
             In accordance with a further aspect of the invention a method of monitoring an animal
25 comprises the steps of: a) orally administering to a ruminant animal a monitoring device and a
   first magnet contained inside of an inert bolus body; and b) accessing said encoded sensed animal
   characteristic information carried by said radio frequency signal. The animal monitoring device
   includes: i) at least one sensor capable of generating a signal which varies in relation to change in
   a sensed animal characteristic; ii) a signal encoder which encodes said signal generated by said
30 sensor as encoded sensed animal characteristic information; iii) a radio frequency signal generator
   which generates a radio frequency signal capable of carrying said encoded sensed animal
   characteristic information; iv) a power source which supplies power to said animal monitoring
   device; and v) an antenna capable of transmitting said radio frequency signal carrying said
   encoded sensed animal characteristic information.
                                               2 (followed by 2A)

             Disclosed herein is a method of producing an animal monitoring system, comprising: a)
   providing an inert bolus body adapted to allow oral administration to a ruminant animal; b)
   locating an animal monitoring device inside of said inert bolus body, said animal monitoring
   device including: i) at least one sensor capable of generating a signal which varies in relation to
 5 change in a sensed animal characteristic; ii) a sensor signal encoder which encodes said signal
   generated by said sensor as encoded sensed animal characteristic information; iii) a first radio
   frequency signal generator including an oscillator which generates a first radio frequency signal
   capable of carrying said encoded sensed animal characteristic information from a location inside of
   a ruminant animal to a location outside of said ruminant animal; iv) a radio frequency signal
10 receiver capable of receiving a second radio frequency signal generated by a second radio
   frequency generator having a location outside of said ruminant animal; v) a microcontroller having
   a programmable module operable to process said second radio frequency signal to reprogram said
   programmable module to alter said first radio frequency generated by said first radio frequency
   generator while said inert bolus resides inside of said ruminant animal; vi) a power source which
15 supplies power to said animal monitoring device; and vii) an antenna which transmits said first
   radio frequency signal and receives said second radio frequency signal.
             Disclosed herein is a method of producing an animal monitoring system, comprising: a)
   providing an inert bolus body adapted to allow oral administration to a ruminant animal; b)
   locating an animal monitoring device inside of said inert
                                              2A (followed by 3)

   bolus body, said animal monitoring device including: i) at least one sensor which generates a signal
   which varies in relation to change in a sensed animal characteristic; ii) a sensor signal encoder which
   encodes said signal generated by said at least one sensor as encoded sensed animal characteristic
   information; iii) a first radio frequency signal generator which includes an oscillator which generates a
 5 first radio frequency signal capable of carrying said encoded sensed animal characteristic information
   to a location outside of said ruminant animal; iv) a radio frequency signal receiver capable of receiving
   a second radio frequency signal generated by a second radio frequency generator having a location
   outside of said ruminant animal; v) a microcontroller having a programmable module operable to
   process said second radio frequency signal to reprogram said programmable module to alter said first
10 radio frequency generated by said first radio frequency generator while said inert bolus resides inside
   of said ruminant animal; vi) an antenna which transmits said first radio frequency signal and receives
   said second radio frequency signal; and vii) a battery which supplies power to said animal monitoring
   device; and c) a first magnet having a location inside said inert bolus body, wherein said first magnet
   has a pair of opposed faces defining a north pole and a south pole, said south pole disposed in inward
15 facing relation to said animal monitoring device, said north pole disposed in outward facing relation to
   said animal monitoring device.
              Disclosed herein is a method of producing an animal monitoring system, comprising: a)
   providing an inert bolus body adapted to allow oral administration to a ruminant animal; b) locating an
   animal monitoring device inside of said inert bolus body, said animal monitoring device including: i)
20 at least one sensor which generates a signal which varies in relation to change in a sensed animal
   characteristic, wherein said at least one sensor is selected from the group consisting of: a tilt sensor, a
   blood pressure sensor, and a dissolved gases sensor; ii) a sensor signal encoder which encodes said
   signal generated by said at least one sensor as encoded sensed animal characteristic information; iii) a
   first radio frequency signal generator which includes an oscillator which generates a first radio
25 frequency signal capable of carrying said encoded sensed animal characteristic infonnation to a
   location outside of said ruminant animal; iv) a radio frequency signal receiver capable of receiving a
   second radio frequency signal generated by a second radio frequency generator having a location
   outside of said ruminant animal; v) a microcontroller having a programmable module operable to
   process said second radio frequency signal to reprogram said programmable module to alter said first
30 radio frequency generated by said first radio frequency generator while said inert bolus resides inside
   of said ruminant animal; vi) an antenna which transmits said first radio frequency signal and receives
   said second radio frequency signal; and vii) a battery which supplies power to said animal monitoring
   device.
                                                 3 (followed by 3A)

              Disclosed herein is a method of producing an animal monitoring system, comprising: a)
   providing an inert bolus body adapted to allow oral administration to a ruminant animal; b) locating an
   animal monitoring device inside of said inert bolus body, said animal monitoring device including: i) at
   least one sensor which generates a signal which varies in relation to change in a sensed animal
 5 characteristic; ii) a sensor signal encoder which encodes said signal generated by said at least one sensor
   as encoded sensed animal characteristic information; iii) a first radio frequency signal generator
   including an oscillator which generates a first radio frequency signal capable of carrying said encoded
   sensed animal characteristic information to a location outside of said ruminant animal; iv) a radio
   frequency stabilizer which maintains said first radio frequency signal within a selected radio frequency
10 range; v) a radio frequency signal receiver capable of receiving a second radio frequency signal
   generated by a second radio frequency generator having a location outside of said ruminant animal; vi)
   a microcontroller having a programmable module operable to process said second radio frequency
   signal to reprogram said programmable module to alter said first radio frequency generated by said first
   radio frequency generator while said inert bolus resides inside of said ruminant animal; vii) a network
15 frequency match element which compensates for demodulation of said first radio frequency signal
   caused by passing through the mass of said ruminant animal to maintain said first radio frequency
   signal at a selected transmitted frequency outside of said ruminant animal; viii) an antenna which
   transmits said radio frequency signal and receives said second radio frequency signal; and ix) a battery
   which supplies power to said animal monitoring device.
20            Disclosed herein is a method of monitoring an animal, comprising the steps of: a) orally
   administering to a ruminant animal a monitoring device and a first magnet contained inside of an
   inert bolus body, said animal monitoring device including: i) at least one sensor capable of generating
   a signal which varies in relation to change in a sensed animal characteristic; ii) a signal encoder which
   encodes said signal generated by said sensor as encoded sensed animal characteristic information; iii)
25 a first radio frequency signal generator which includes an oscillator which generates a first radio
   frequency signal capable of carrying said encoded sensed animal characteristic information from a
   location inside of a ruminant animal to a location outside of said ruminant animal; iv) a radio
   frequency signal receiver capable of receiving a second radio frequency signal generated by a second
   frequency generator having a location outside said ruminant animal; v) a microcontroller having a
30 programmable module operable to process said second radio frequency signal to reprogram said
   programmable module to alter said first radio frequency generated by said first radio frequency
   generator
                                                3A (followed by 3B)

   while said inert bolus resides inside of said ruminant animal; vi) a power source which supplies
   power to said animal monitoring device; and vii) an antenna capable of transmitting said first radio
   frequency signal carrying said encoded sensed animal characteristic information and receiving said
   second radio frequency signal; b) accessing said encoded sensed animal characteristic information
 5 carried by said radio frequency signal; and c) a first magnet having a location inside said inert bolus
   body, wherein said first magnet has a pair of opposed faces defining a north pole and a south pole,
   said south pole disposed in inward facing relation to said animal monitoring device, said north pole
   disposed in outward facing relation to said animal monitoring device.
              The present disclosure also provides a bolus orally administratable for retention in the
10 digestive tract of an animal which contains an animal monitoring device having a structure and a
   function which improves transmission of encoded animal identification information and encoded
   sensed animal characteristic information from within an animal to a radiofrequency reader.
              The present disclosure also provides a bolus which includes one or more magnets disposed
   to generate one or more magnetic fields having a configuration which attracts metal objects to the
15 external surface of the body of the bolus but avoids disposing such metal objects in outwardly
   projecting relation the external surface of the body of the bolus.
              The present disclosure also provides an animal monitoring device on a printed circuit
   board which can be sufficiently isolated from the one or more magnets to allow transmission of
   encoded animal identification information and sensed animal characteristic information without
20 interruption or loss of encoded information.
              The present disclosure also provides a network frequency match element which
   functions as part of the animal monitoring device to compensate for the mass of the animal such
   that the radio frequency signal generated by the animal monitoring device antenna located inside
   the animal can be received by the radio frequency reader antenna located outside of the animal.
25            Naturally further features and advantages of the invention are disclosed throughout the
   detailed description of the preferred embodiments of the invention and the figures.
              As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise"
   and variations of the tern, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not
   intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
30 IV.        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
              Figure 1 is a diagram which shows a particular method of using an embodiment of the
   animal monitoring system.
              Figure 2 is a block diagram which shows a particular embodiment of a specialized
   computer in relation to a particular embodiment of a radio frequency reader and bolus.
                                                3B (followed by 3C)

          Figure 3 is a block diagram which shows a particular embodiment of a radio frequency
  reader.
          Figure 4 is an exploded view of a particular embodiment of the bolus.
          Figure 5 is an exploded view of another particular embodiment of the bolus.
5         Figure 6 is a block diagram of a particular embodiment of the animal monitoring device
  which can be contained in various embodiments of the bolus.
                                          3C (followed by 4)

        WO 20121054085                                                        PCT/US2011/001788
            Figure 7 is a bar graph which compares strength of radio frequency transmission
   against orientation of magnetic field of a first magnet contained in bolus.
            Figure 8 is a bar graph which compares strength of radio frequency transmission
   against orientation of magnetic field of a first magnet contained in the bolus when
   magnetically coupled to a second magnet outside of the bolus.
            Figure 9 is a bar graph which compares strength of radio frequency transmission with
   the first magnet contained in the bolus oriented to provide greatest strength of radio frequency
   transmission as compared to strength of radio frequency transmission with the first magnet
   contained in the bolus oriented to provide greatest strength of radio frequency transmission
   with a second magnet outside of the bolus magnetically coupled to the first magnet.
 i V.       MODE(S) FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
            Now referring primarily to Figures 1 and 2, which illustrates a general computer
   implemented method of using an animal monitoring system (1) to monitor one or more sensed
   physiological and non-physiological parameters ("animal characteristics (2)") of an animal (3).
   A bolus (4) can be orally administered to reside in a reticulum (5) of the animal (3)(although
   the bolus (4) can be implanted in the animal (3) to reside at other locations). The bolus (4) can
   include an animal monitoring device (6)(see for example Figures 4 and 5) including one more
   sensors (9) which can sense animal characteristics (2). A microcontroller (7) having one or
   more processors (8) continually or intermittently transform analog or digital signals from the
5  one or more sensors (9) to generate encoded sensed animal characteristic information (10).
   The encoded sensed characteristic information (10) varies in relation to monitored change in
   the sensed animal characteristics (2). The animal monitoring device (6) can further generate
   encoded animal identification information (11) associated the individual monitored animal (3).
   The animal monitoring device (6) can further operate to generate and transmit a radio
0   frequency signal (12) (also referred to as an "RF signal") which can carry encoded animal
    identification information (IH) and encoded sensed animal characteristic information (10).
             Again referring primarily to Figures I and 2, one or more radio frequency reader(s)(13)
   can be located to receive the radiofrequency signal (12) carrying the encoded animal
                                                     4

        WO 20121054085                                                       PCT/US2011/001788
   identification information (11) and the encoded sensed animal characteristic information (10).
   As to particular embodiments, the one or more radiofrequency readers (13) can further operate
   to decode the received radiofrequency signal (12) and generate one or more bit segments (14)
   representing the encoded animal identification information (11) and representing the encoded
   sensed animal characteristic information (10)(see for example Figure 3). As to particular
   embodiments, the one or more radio frequency readers (13) can further operate to assemble the
   bit segments (14) into a data packet (15) which can be transmitted and received by a wired or
   wireless reception device (16). The reception device (16) can transfer the data packet (15) to a
   specialized computer (17) for transforming the bit segments (14) to output an animal
   identification value (18) and to output a sensed animal characteristic value (19). A computer
   user (20) can access the sensed animal characteristic value (19) associated with the animal
   identification value (18)(along with other information encoded by the animal monitoring
   device (6) or the radio frequency reader (13) or a remote second computer (21)) by use of a
   specialized computer (17).
            Now referring primarily to Figure 2, the specialized computer (17) configured to allow
    access by the computer user (20) of the sensed animal characteristic values (19) associated
    with the animal identification value (18) is described herein in terms of functional block
    components, screen shots, and various process steps. It should be appreciated that such
 I  functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware or software components
    configured to perform the specified functions. For example, the computer implemented animal
    management system (1) may employ various integrated circuit components which function
    without limitation as: memory elements, radio frequency signal modulators, processing
    elements, logic elements, look-up tables, or the like, which may carry out a variety of
5   functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices.
            Similarly, the software elements of the present invention may be implemented with any
    programming or scripting language such as C, C++, Java, COBOL, assembler, PERL,
     Labview or any graphical user interface programming language, extensible markup language
0   (XML), Microsoft's Visual Studio NET, Visual Basic, or the like, with the various algorithms
    or Boolean Logic being implemented with any combination of data structures, objects,
    processes, routines or other programming elements. Further, it should be noted that the present
     invention might employ any number of conventional wired or wireless techniques for data
    transmission, signaling, data processing, network control, and the like.
                                                    5

        WO 20121054085                                                        PCT/US2011/001788
          It should be appreciated that the particular computer implementations shown and
   described herein are illustrative of the invention and its best mode and are not intended to
   otherwise limit the scope of the present invention in any way. Indeed, for the sake of brevity,
   conventional data networking, application development and other functional aspects of the
   systems (and components of the individual operating components of the systems) may not be
   described in detail herein. Furthermore, the connecting lines shown in the various figures
   contained herein are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and/or physical
   couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional
   functional relationships or physical connections may be present in a practical animal
   montioring system (1).
           As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, the present invention may be
   embodied in the alternative as a method, a data processing system, a device for data
   processing, a computer program product, or the like. Accordingly, the present invention may
   take the form of an entirely software embodiment, an entirely hardware embodiment, or an
   embodiment combining aspects of both software and hardware. Furthermore, the present
   invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer-readable storage
   medium having computer-readable program code means embodied in the storage medium.
 I Any suitable computer-readable storage medium may be utilized, including hard disks, CD
   ROM, optical storage devices, magnetic storage devices, ROM, flash RAM, or the like.
           The present invention may be described herein with reference to screen shots, block
   diagrams and flowchart illustrations of the data encoder-decoder system to describe computer
5  programs, applications, or modules which can be utilized separately or in combination in
   accordance with various aspects or embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that
   each functional block of the block diagrams and the flowchart illustrations, and combinations
   of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations, respectively, can be
    implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be
0   loaded onto a general purpose computer, special purpose computer or other programmable
   data processing apparatus to produce a machine, such that the instructions which execute on
   the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus for implementing the functions
   specified in the flowchart block or blocks.
                                                   6

       WO 20121054085                                                        PCT/US2011/001788
           These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer-readable
  memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to
  function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer-readable
  memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the
  function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may
  also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a
  series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus
  to produce a computer-implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the
  computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions
  specified in the flowchart block or blocks.
           Accordingly, functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations
  support combinations of means for performing the specified functions, combinations of steps
  for performing the specified functions, and program instruction means for performing the
  specified functions. It will also be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams
  and flowchart illustrations, and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and
  flowchart illustrations, can be implemented by either special purpose hardware based
  computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps, or suitable combinations of
  special purpose hardware and computer instructions.
            Again referring to Figure 2, the computer implemented animal monitoring system (1)
  can include a specialized computer (17) for receiving, processing and transforming signals
   from a reception device (16) to generate animal identification values (18) and sensed animal
  characteristic values (17) accessible by the computer user (20)). The specialized computer (17)
5 can include at least one processing unit (22), a memory element (23), and a bus (24) which
  operably couples components of the computer (17), including, without limitation the memory
  element (23) to the processing unit (22). The computer (17) may be a conventional computer,
   a distributed computer, or any other type of computer which may contain all or a part of the
   elements described or shown to accomplish the functions described herein; the invention is not
0  so limited. The processing unit (22) can comprise without limitation one central-processing
   unit (CPU), or a plurality of processing units which operate in parallel to process digital
   information, or a digital signal processor (DSP) plus a host processor, or the like. The bus (24)
   can be without limitation any of several types of bus configurations such as a memory bus or
   memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus
                                                   7

        WO 20121054085                                                      PCTIUS2011/001788
  architectures. The memory element (23) can without limitation be a read only memory
  (ROM)(25) or a random access memory (RAM)(26), or both. A basic input/output system
  (BIOS)(27) containing routines that assist transfer of data between the components of the
  specialized computer (17), for example during start-up, can be stored in ROM (25). The
  computer (17) can further include a hard disk drive (28) for reading from and writing to a hard
  disk (not shown), a magnetic disk drive (29) for reading from or writing to a removable
  magnetic disk (30), and an optical disk drive (31) for reading from or writing to a removable
  optical disk (32) such as a CD ROM or other optical media.
           The hard disk drive (28), magnetic disk drive (29), and optical disk drive (31) and the
  reception device (16) can be connected to the bus (24) by a hard disk drive interface (33), a
   magnetic disk drive interface (34), and an optical disk drive interface (35), and a reception
  device interface (36), respectively. The drives and their associated computer-readable media
   provide nonvolatile storage of computer-readable instructions, data structures, program
   modules and other data for the computer (17). It can be appreciated by those skilled in the art
   that any type of computer-readable media that can store data that is accessible by a computer,
   such as magnetic cassettes, flash memory cards, digital video disks, Bernoulli cartridges,
   random access memories (RAMs), read only memories (ROMs), RFID devices or the like,
   may be used in the exemplary operating environment.
)
           The computer (17)     can further include an operating system (37) and an animal
   monitoring program (38)(AMP) which as to particular embodiments of the invention can
   include an animal monitoring device encoder-decoder module (39)(AMD encoder-decoder
   module) for programming animal identification values (18) to the animal monitoring device
5  (AMD)(6) using an animal monitoring device programmer (40) connected to the bus (24) by
   an AMD interface (41). The AMD encoder-decoder module can be stored on or in the hard
   disk, magnetic disk (30), optical disk (32), ROM (25), in RAM (26) the specialized computer
   (17) or alternately the functionalities of the AMD encoder-decoder module (39) may be
    implemented as an application specific integrated chip (ASIC) or file programmable gate array
0   (FPGA), or the like.
           The computer user (20) can enter commands and information into the computer (17)
    through input devices such as a keyboard (42) and a pointing device (43) such as a mouse.
    Other input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish,
                                                   8

        WO 20121054085                                                       PCTIUS2011/001788
  scanner, magnetic strip of a card, or the like. These and other input devices are often
  connected to the processing unit (22) through a serial port interface (44) that can be coupled to
  the bus (24), but may be connected by other interfaces, such as a parallel port, game port, or a
  universal serial bus (USB). A monitor (45) or other type of display device can also be
  connected to the bus (24) via interfaces such as a video adapter (46), or the like. In addition to
  the monitor (45), the computer (17) can further include a peripheral output device (51), such as
  speakers and printers.
            A "click event" occurs when the computer user (20) operates at least one function of
  the AMP (38) or the animal monitoring device encoder-decoder module (39), or other program
  or other application function, through an action or the use of a command which for example
   can include pressing or releasing a left mouse button (47) while a pointer element (48) is
   located over a control icon (49) displayed on the monitor (45). However, it is not intended that
   a "click event" be limited to the press and release of the left mouse button (46) while a pointer
   element (45) is located over a control icon (49). Rather, the term "click event" is intend to
   broadly encompass any action or command by the computer user (20) through which a
   function of the operating system (37) or animal monitoring program (38), animal monitoring
   device encoder-decoder module (39), or other program or application is activated or
   performed, whether through clickable selection of one or a plurality of control icon(s) (49) or
   by computer user (20) voice command, keyboard stroke(s), mouse button, touch screen, touch
   pad, or otherwise. It is further intended that control icons (49) can be configured without
   limitation as a point, a circle, a triangle, a square (or other geometric configurations or
   combinations or permutations thereof), or as a check box, a drop down list, a menu, or other
    index containing a plurality of selectable options, an information field which can contain or
5  which allows input of a string of alphanumeric characters such as a street address, zip code,
   county code, or natural area code, animal identification number or by inputting a
    latitude/longitude or projected coordinate X and Y, animal pen number, or other notation,
    script, character, or the like.
0            The computer (17) may operate in a networked environment using logical connections
    (50) to one or a plurality of remote second computers (21). These logical connections (50) can
    be achieved by a communication device (52) coupled to or a part of the computer (17). Each of
    the plurality of remote computers (51) can include a part or all of the elements as included in
    the specialized computer (17) although only a single box has been illustrated in Figure 2 for
                                                    9

       WO 20121054085                                                          PCTIUS2011/001788
  the remote second computer (51). The logical connections (50) depicted in Figure 2 can
  establish a local-area network (LAN) or a wide-area network (WAN). Such networking
  environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and
  the Internet (53).
           When used in a LAN-networking environment, the computer (17) can be connected to
  the local network through a network interface (54). When used in a WAN-networking
  environment, the computer (17)         typically includes a modem (55), or other type of
  communications device, for establishing communications over the wide area network, such as
  the Internet (53). The modem (55), which may be internal or external to the specialized
  computer (17), can be connected to the bus (24) via the serial port interface (44). In a
  networked environment, the animal monitoring program (38), or portions thereof, may be
  stored in any one or more of the plurality of remote second computers (51). It is appreciated
  that the logical connections (50) shown are exemplary and other hardware means and
  communications means can be utilized for establishing a communications link between the
   specialized computer (17) and one or more of the a plurality of remote second computers (21).
           While the computer means and the network means shown in Figure 2 can be utilized to
   practice the invention including the best mode, it is not intended that the description of the best
   mode of the invention or any preferred embodiment of the invention be limiting with respect
   to the utilization of a wide variety of similar, different, or equivalent computer means or
   network means to practice embodiments of the invention which include without limitation
   hand-held devices, such as personal digital assistants or camera/cell phone, multiprocessor
   systems, microprocessor-based or programmable            consumer electronics, network PCs,
5  minicomputers, mainframe computers, PLCs, or the like.
           Now referring primarily to Figures 1 and 3, the animal monitoring system (1) can
   further include one or more radio frequency readers (13)(RF readers). The RF reader (13) can
   receive a radio-frequency signal (12) from an AMD (6) within a bolus (4) implanted in,
0  retained by, or held in the reticulum (5) of an animal (3). The AMD (6) within the bolus (4)
   can send encoded animal identification information (10) and the encoded sensed animal
   characteristic information (2) using the radio-frequency signal (12), as above described.
         One non-limiting embodiment of the RF reader (13) as shown in Figures I and 3,
                                                    10

        WO 20121054085                                                       PCTIUS2011/001788
  provides a reader microcontroller (56) which includes a reader processor (57) which controls
  the functions of a variety of reader processor elements (58) stored in a reader memory element
  (59) each of which provides a response to events related to receiving the radio-frequency
  signal (12) from the AMD (6) within the bolus (4) carrying encoded animal identification
  information (11) and sensed animal characteristic information (10), or receiving reader sensor
  signals (60) from reader sensors (61) which monitor environmental parameters proximate the
  RF reader (13) such as ambient temperature; or generating data packets (15) which include all
  or parts of such information, or sending data packets (15) to the computer (17) or a remote
  second computer (21) for access by a computer user (20). A reader microcontroller (56)
  suitable for use with embodiments of the RF reader (13) can be obtained from Microchip
  Technology. Inc., 2355 West Chandler Blvd., Chandler, Arizona, Part No. PIC18F4620-I/PT,
  or similar or equivalent components can be suitable as a reader microcontroller (56)
  programmable to perform the above-described functions of the RF reader (13).
           Again referring primarily to Figure 3, a reader antenna (62) can receive encoded
   animal identification information (10) and encoded sensed animal characteristic information
   (11) and other information generated by operation of the AMD (6) within the bolus (4) within
   an animal (3). The reader antenna (62) can be tuned to the radio-frequency signal (12)
   generated by the AMD (6) by a reader matching network element (63). A reader receiver
   (64)(or transceiver) can be controlled by a first reader processor element (65) to convert the
   radio-frequency signal (12) received by the reader antenna (62) from analog to digital
   baseband signals.
           Again referring primarily to Figure 3, the reader sensor (61) can take the form of an
5  ambient temperature sensor (66) which can be located to sense the ambient temperature (67)
   surrounding the RF reader (13). The ambient temperature sensor (66) can take the form of a
   thermistor. A suitable thermistor for use in embodiments of the RF reader (13) is available
   from Microchip Technology, Inc., 2355 West Chandler Blvd., Chandler, Arizona, Part No.
   MCP98242, and similar and equivalent parts. The ambient temperature sensor (66) can be
0  operated under the control a second reader processor (68) which functions to regulate power to
   the ambient temperature sensor (66) and converts the reader sensor signal (60) from the
   ambient temperature sensor (66) into a digital representation of the ambient temperature (67).
   The second reader processor (68) can further function to encode or re-encode from time to
                                                   II

       WO 20121054085                                                       PCTIUS2011/001788
  time an amount of reader temperature calibration data (70) which allows calculation and
  output of an ambient temperature value (71).
          Again referring primarily to Figure 3, a clock element (72) can operate under the
  control of a third reader processor element (73) which functions to generate a date and time
  signal (74) that represents a date and time value (75).
          Again referring primarily to Figure 3, a fourth reader processor element (76) can
  function to assemble data packets (15)       which include a representation of, the ambient
  temperature value (71) and the date and time value (75) at which the information from the
  AMD (6) was received by the RF reader (13). The assembled data packet (15) can be stored
  and retrieved from the reader memory element (59) under the control of the fourth reader
  processor element (76).
          Again referring primarily to Figure 3, a fifth reader processor element (77) can
  function to provide an ether net interface (78) for an ether net controller (79) to receive
  requests from the computer (17)(or remote computer (21) and retrieve from the reader memory
  element (59) one or more data packets (15) containing information relating to one or a
  plurality of animals (3) which entrain a bolus (4) with an AMD (6). The fifth reader processor
  element (77) can further function to send the retrieved data packets (15) to the ether net
  controller (79) for transmission to the computer (17).
          Now referring primarily to Figures 4 through 6, embodiments of the animal monitoring
  system (1) can include an inert bolus (4) orally administrable to an animal (or implantable in
5 an animal) (3) containing the AMD (6) which includes one or more of a microcontroller (7),
  one or more processors (8), at least one sensor (9), and a radio frequency generator (81)
   including one or more of an oscillator (80), a radio frequency stabilizer (82), an antenna (83),
  and a power source (84) which operate to generate the radio frequency signal (12). Depending
  on the embodiment, a first magnet (85)(see example shown in Figure 5) or a pair of magnets
  (94)(see example shown in Figure 4) can be further included in the inert bolus (4). Certain
  configurations of the bolus (4) can be orally administered to ruminate animals (3), such as
  cows, deer, and sheep, and be retained in a part of the stomach, such as the reticulum (5), as
  shown in Figure 1; although the invention is not so limited, and certain embodiments of the
  bolus (4) can be implanted or be otherwise affixed to an animal (3).
                                                  12

       WO 20121054085                                                        PCT/US2011/001788
          Embodiments of the bolus (4) which are orally administered to an animal (3) can
  provide an inert bolus body (86) having external dimensional relations adapted to allow oral
  administration and retention of the bolus (4) in a part of the stomach, such as the reticulum (5)
  of a particular species of animal (3). As one non-limiting example, the inert bolus body (86)
  can include an amount of cured plastic resin (87) cast about the animal monitoring device (6)
  and as to particular embodiments about the pair of magnets (94) or the first magnet (85) along
  with any spacers. The amount of cured plastic resin (87) can for example comprise a plastic
  resin such as urethane resin, epoxy resin, polyester resin, or the like used in accordance with
  the manufacturer's instructions. As to other embodiments, the inert bolus body (86) can
  comprise a sealable container (88) which defines a hollow inside space (89) which receives
  said animal monitoring device (6) and said first magnet (85). As to other embodiments, the
  salable container having the animal monitoring device (6) received in the hollow space
  (89)(and as to particular embodiments further including the first magnet (85) received in the
  hollow space) can have the amount of plastic resin (87) cast about the animal monitoring
  device (6) and the first magnet (85) located within said salable container (88).
          As one illustrative example, a bolus (4) suitable for oral administration to an animal (3)
  can be generally cylindrical with a diameter in perpendicular cross section in the range of
  about one-half inch to about one inch and having a length disposed between a first bolus end
  (90) and a second bolus end (91) in the range of about two inches and about five inches.
  Particular embodiments of the bolus (4) can have a length of about three and one-half inches
  and a diameter in perpendicular cross section of about three-quarters of an inch. While the
   Figures show the bolus (4) in the constructional form of a cylinder with end caps; the
5 invention is not so limited, and the bolus (4) can have numerous and varied external surface
  configurations which allow oral administration and retention within the reticulum (5)(or other
  part of the digestive tract) of an animal (3). Typically, retention of the bolus (4) in a part of a
  stomach or retention by way of implant will be for all or a substantial portion of the life of the
  animal (3). The inert bolus body (86) can be molded, cast, or machined from biocompatible (or
0 biologically inert) non-magnetic materials which allow transmission of the radio frequency
  signal (12) from within the bolus (4) to outside of the animal (3). As examples, the inert bolus
  body can be made from plastics such as nylon, fluorocarbon, polypropylene, polycarbonate,
  urethane, epoxy, polyethylene, or the like; or metals such as stainless steel; or other materials
  such as glass can be utilized.
                                                  13

       WO 20121054085                                                       PCT/US2011/001788
          The hollow inside space (89) inside of the inert bolus body (86) can be of sufficient
  volume to house one or more of the microcontroller (7), the sensor (9), the oscillator (80) the
  radio frequency stabilizer (82), the antenna (83) and the power source (84) along with the
  associated circuitry. Now referring primarily to Figure 4, as to certain embodiments of the
  bolus body (86), the hollow inside space (89) can have sufficient volume to further house non
  conductive insulators (92), and non-conductive spacers (93) to establish a particular distance
  between a pair of magnets (94), while as to embodiments of the invention similar to that
  shown in Figure 5, the hollow inside space (89) can have sufficient volume to further house a
  first magnet (85). As to embodiments of the bolus (4) as shown in Figures 4 and 5 or similar
  embodiments, the hollow inside space (89) can be configured as a cylindrical volume having a
  diameter of about three-eighths of an inch and about five-eighths inch and a length disposed
  between the first bolus end (90) and the second bolus end (91) of between about two inches
  and about four inches. A particular non-limiting embodiment of the hollow inside space (89)
  can be about one-half inch in diameter and having a length of about three inches.
          As to those embodiments of the bolus (4) including a salable container (88), as above
  described, the sealable container (88) can further provide at least one end cap (95) removably
  sealable with a first bolus end (90) or a second bolus end (91) or both ends (90)(91) of the
  bolus (4) to allow access to the hollow inside space (89) for location of the various
  components of the animal monitoring device (6). As to certain embodiments of the invention,
  the bolus (4) can take the form of a closed end tube having one end cap (95) or a cylindrical
  tube having an end cap (95) fitted to each of the first bolus end (90) and the second bolus end
  (92). The end cap(s) (95) can also take the form of a plug sealably inserted into one or both
5 ends of the sealable container (88), as shown in Figures 4 and 5. Alternately, the end cap (95)
   and the bolus (4) can provide rotatably matable spiral threads. Additionally, the end cap (95)
   can take the form of a permanent seal to one or both ends of the salable container (88) of the
   bolus (4) such as a castable polymer which cures to seal one or both ends of the bolus (4). The
   bolus (4) can also take the form of matable halves (whether longitudinal or latitudinal) which
0  can avoid the use of end caps (95).
           The bolus (4) having a hollow inside space (89) can be generated by a wide variety of
   procedures such as molding, casting, fabrication or the like. As one non-limiting example, a
   cylindrical tube having an external diameter and an internal diameter, as above described, can
                                                  14

        WO 20121054085                                                       PCT/US2011/001788
  be divided into sections of suitable length to which the end caps can be fitted. Alternately, a
  bore can be made in a cylindrical solid rod having an external diameter, as above described, to
  provide a closed end tube with the bore having sufficient dimension to provide the hollow
  inside space (89). An end cap (95) or seal can be fitted to the open end of the closed end tube.
          Now referring primarily to Figures 4 through 6, a printed circuit board (96) can be
  utilized to mechanically support and electrically connect the microcontroller (7), the sensor
  (9), the oscillator (80), the radio frequency stabilizer (82), and the antenna (83). The printed
  circuit board (96) can be configured as a disk having a circular boundary (97) and a thickness
  disposed between two generally planar surfaces (98)(99). The disk shaped printed circuit
  board (96) can be disposed with the planar surfaces (98)(99) in substantially perpendicular
  relation to a longitudinal axis (100) of the hollow inside space (89) when configured as a
  cylindrical volume, as shown in Figures 4 or 5; however, the invention is not so limited, and
  the components can be mounted on any suitable supporting surface in any configuration or
  arrangement which allows the components to function as further described below.
          Again referring primarily to Figure 6, which provides a block diagram which
  represents the various integrated circuit components of the animal monitoring device (6) which
   function as processing elements, memory elements, logic elements, look-up tables, or the like,
  to carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other
  control devices, as further described below. In the particular embodiments of the invention
   shown in Figures 4 through 6, the microcontroller (7) can take the form of a small computer
   on one or more integrated circuits having one or more processors (8) which control the
   functions of a variety of processing elements (101) stored in a programmable memory element
5  (102) each of which provides a response to events related to the surveillance, identification,
   and measurement of values in relation to an individual animal (3) or other object. A
   microcontroller (7) as available from Microchip Technology. Inc., 2355 West Chandler Blvd.,
   Chandler, Arizona, Part Nos. PIC18LF14K22 or PIC18LFISK22, or similar or equivalent
   components, can be suitable for use with embodiments of the animal monitoring device (6).
0
           A first processor element (103)       can function to encode and continuously or
   intermittently output an amount of encoded animal identification information (11) which can
   represent a an animal identification value (18) such bolus identification number (104), an
                                                   15

       WO 20121054085                                                       PCT/US2011/001788
  animal identification value (105), or other value which associates information received from a
  bolus (4) to a particular animal (3) or object.
          A second processor element (106) can function to intermittently encode and output an
  amount of encoded sensed animal characteristic information (10) representing a sensed animal
  characteristic (2) of an animal (3) or object. For the purposes of this invention, an animal
  characteristic (2) of an animal (3) or object can include any one or more of a physiological
  characteristics of the animal (3) such as temperature, pH, heart rate, blood pressure, partial
  pressures of dissolved gases, or the like; or a non-physiological parameter such as animal
  location, animal tilt, humidity, or the like. The second processor element (106) can in part
  function to receive analog signals or digital signals from a sensor (9) configured to sense a
  particular animal characteristic (2). As a non-limiting examples, the sensor (9)(or sensors) can
  be an omnidirectional tilt and vibration Sensor (PN SQ-SEN-200) distributed by Signal Quest
  Precision Microsensors; a betachip thermistor (PN 1K2003) distributed by BetaTHERM
  Sensors; a humidity sensor (PN HCZ-D5) distributed by Ghitron Technology CO., Ltd; an
  ultra miniature pressure transducer (PN COQ-062) distributed by Kulite, a proximity sensor
  (PN PY3-AN-3) distributed by Automation Direct.com.
          Variation of the sensed animal characteristic(s)(2) can be continuously or intermittently
  updated by encoding or re-encoding the a digital representation of the signal generated by the
  sensor (9). The second processor element (106) can further function to encoded or re-encoded
  from time to time an amount of calibration data (128) which allows calculation and output of a
  sensed animal characteristic value (19) of the animal (3). As to the particular embodiment of
  the invention shown in Figures 4 and 5, the second processor element (106) can receive and
5 encode signals received from a thermistor (a type of resistor whose resistance varies with
  change in temperature). A suitable thermistor for use in embodiment of the invention is
  available from Microchip Technology, Inc., 2355 West Chandler Blvd., Chandler, Arizona,
  Part No. MCP98242, and similar and equivalent parts.
0         A third processor element (107) functions to control the oscillator (80) to generate a
  stable radio frequency signal (12). An oscillator (80) suitable for use with the invention is
  available from Freescale Semiconductor, Part No. MCl3I9x, MCI320x, MCI321x, and
  MC1322x, and similar or equivalent parts. The third processor element (107) can further
  function to control a radio frequency stabilizer (82) which functions to offset oscillator (80)
                                                  16

       WO 20121054085                                                         PCT/US2011/001788
  wave flux caused by changes in temperature or power to the oscillator (80). A frequency
  stabilizer (82) suitable for use with the invention is available from Hope Microelectronics Co.,
  Ltd, Part No. HF433E, RIF Monolithics, Inc.. Part No. RFI 172C, and similar or equivalent
  parts. In regard to the particular embodiment of the invention shown in Figures 4 and 5, the
  oscillator (80) and frequency stabilizer (82) can generate a radio frequency signal (12) stable
  between about 410MHz and about 440MHz. A particular embodiment of the invention
  generates a radio frequency signal (12) of about 433MHz to be received by the RF reader (13).
           A fourth processor element (108) functions to control a network frequency match
  element (109). The network frequency match element (109) can include capacitors and
  resistors in combination to deliver a particular radio frequency signal (12) under the conditions
  of the method utilized (for example the method above described) to the antenna (83). As a
  non-limiting example, the network frequency match element (109) can detune a 433 MHz
  radio frequency signal (12) to generate a signal of between about 418-425 MHz. The detuned
  signal can compensate for demodulation of the radio frequency signal (12) due to interaction
  with the mass of animal (3). The degree of demodulation can be substantially consistent and
  repeatable from animal (3) to animal (3). Accordingly, the network frequency match element
  (109) can be configured to compensate for the signal demodulation due to the mass of the
  animal (3) such that the radio frequency signal (12) transmitted outside of the mass of the
  animal (3) can be at about 433 MHz (or other selected frequency).
           As to particular embodiments, the antenna (83) can be imprinted on the printed circuit
  board (96) proximate the circular boundary (97) to provide an antenna (83) of generally partial
  circular configuration having a length of about 37 millimeters and a width of about 1
5 millimeter (see for example Figures 4 and 5). The antenna (83) operates to transmit the radio
  frequency signal (12) at the wavelengths above described. An advantage of this configuration
  of antenna (83) can be that it does not require winding upon or interaction with the magnetic
  field (110) of the first magnet (85) or one or both of a pair of magnets (95)(or any magnet) to
  transmit a radio frequency signal (12). Accordingly, this configuration of antenna (83) can
D provide a lesser amount of interference from the magnetic field (110) of the one or more
  magnets (85)(95) contained in the bolus (4) resulting a lower incidence of loss of the radio
  frequency signal (12), less modulation of the radio frequency signal (12) which results in a
  greater consistency (or lesser amount of lost data) in transmission of animal identification
  information (II) and sensed animal characteristic information (10).
                                                   17

        WO 20121054085                                                         PCTIUS2011/001788
           Again referring to Figures 4 and 5, the bolus (4) can further include a power source
  (84) located within the hollow inside space (89). The power source (84) shown in Figures 4
  and 5 takes the form of a battery (I 11) such as a AA battery, a AAA battery, or the like. The
  battery (11l)    can be inserted or stacked within the hollow inside space (89) proximate the
  printed circuit board (96). A non-conductive insulator (112) can be disposed between the
  printed circuit board (96) and the power source (84). The power source (84) provides power to
  the electronic components supported on the printed circuit. board (96). A first battery lead
  (113) connects the positive battery terminal (109) of the printed circuit board (96) to the
  positive pole (114) of the battery (11l)     (or power source) and a second battery lead (115)
  connects the negative battery terminal (116) of the printed circuit board (96) to the negative
  pole (116) of the battery (I I ])(or power source).
           Now referring primarily to Figure 4, in particular embodiments of the invention a first
  non-conductive spacer (117) can be disposed in the hollow inside space (89) of the bolus (4)
   adjacent to the printed circuit board (96) and a second non-conductive spacer (118) can be
   disposed in the hollow inside space (89) of the bolus (4) adjacent the battery (I 11). A first of
   the pair of magnets (95) can be disposed adjacent the first non-conductive spacer (117) and a
   second of the pair of magnets (95) can be disposed adjacent the second non-conductive spacer
   (118). The first of the pair of magnets (94) and the second of the pair of magnets (94) can be
   configured as magnetic disks or cylinders each having a pair of opposed circular faces
   disposed a distance apart by the thickness of the magnet. By providing a pair of magnets (94)
   disposed a distance apart, a first magnetic field (119) generated by the first of the pair of
   magnets (95) and a second magnetic field (120) generated by the second of the pair of magnets
5  ( ) can attractingly interact with metal objects (121), such as coins, washers, wire, nails, tacks,
   barbs from barbed wire, or the like, ingested by the animal (3) to magnetically engage these
   metal objects (121) with the external surface of the bolus (4) such that the metal objects (121)
   generally align with the longitudinal axis (100)   of the bolus (4), for example, substantially the
   entire length of the metal object (121) can lie against the external surface of the bolus (4) as
0  shown in Figure 4 as opposed to projecting outwardly from the external surface of the bolus
   (4). Depending upon the configuration of the external surface of the bolus (4), the size, power,
   and distance separating the first of the pair of magnets (94) and the second of the pair of
   magnet (95) can be adjusted to correspondingly adjust the interaction of the first magnetic
   field (119) and the second magnetic field (120) to act on metal objects (121), as above
                                                    18

       WO 20121054085                                                       PCTIUS2011/001788
  described. For example, in the embodiment of the invention shown in Figure 4, either the
  particular configuration of the first of the pair of magnets (94) and the second of a pair of
  magnets (94)(dimensional relations and power) or the particular configuration of the first non
  conductive spacer (117) and the second non-conductive spacer (118) can be adjusted to allow
  metal objects (121) to interact with the external surface of the bolus (4). A second advantage
  of providing a pair of magnets (94) disposed a distance apart, can be that the printed circuit
  board (96) can be located between, and a sufficient distance from, either of the pair of magnets
  (94) to reduce interference with the transmission of the radio frequency signal (12).
          Again referring primarily to Figure 4, the printed circuit board (96) supporting the
  electronic components, the non-conductive insulator (112),          the non-conductive spacers
  (117)(l18), and the pair of magnets (95) can be overwrapped with a non-conductive wrap
  element (122) to allow the several elements to moved as a single piece. As one non-limiting
  example, the non-conductive wrap element (122) can comprise a plastic tube shrinkable in
  dimension by application of heat to conform the external surface of the components aligned as
  above described. Accordingly, the overwrapped elements can be inserted into the hollow
  inside space (89) as a single piece and the at least one end cap (95) can be sealably engaged
  with first bolus end (90) or second bolus end (91) of the bolus (4). The non-conductive wrap
  element (122) can have one or more apertures (123). An amount of plastic resin (87), as above
  described, can flow through the one more apertures to be cast about the components of the
   animal monitoring device (6).
           Now referring primarily to Figure 5, other embodiments of the invention can have a
   constructional as above described and shown in Figure 4 with the exception of the form and
5  placement of the pair of magnets (94). In the embodiment shown in Figure 5, the pair of
   magnets (94) and their corresponding magnetic fields (119)(120) along with the non
   conductive spacers (117)(118) can be replaced by a first magnet (85) placed adjacent the
   animal monitoring device (6) and as to those embodiments having a non-conductive wrap
   element (122) located outside of the non-conductive wrap (122). The animal monitoring
0  device (6) along with the first magnet (85) can be located inside of the inert bolus body (86)
   whether within an amount of plastic resin (87) or within a sealable container (88)(whether or
   not the salable container (88) is also filled with plastic resin (87). As to particular
   embodiments, the first magnet (85) can have a first and second opposed magnetic faces
   (123)(124) defining a south pole and a north pole, with the first magnetic face (123)(as to the
                                                  19

       WO 20121054085                                                         PCT/US2011/001788
  embodiment shown the south pole) disposed in inward facing relation to the animal
  monitoring device (6) and the second magnetic face (124)(as to the embodiment shown the
  north pole) disposed in outward facing relation to said animal monitoring device (6). As to
  certain preferred embodiments, the first magnet (85) can have a generally rectangular shape
  having four sides (125) defining the area of a first magnet face (123)(south pole) and the
  second magnet face (124)(north pole) disposed in substantially parallel opposed relation a
  distance apart with the first face (123)(south pole) disposed in inward facing relation to the
  animal monitoring device (6).
          Now referring primary to Figure 7, a bar graph plots the strength of the radio frequency
  (12) against the orientation of the first magnet (85) in relation to the animal monitoring device
  (6) located within the inert bolus body (86)(as described for embodiments similar to that
  shown in Figure 5). Importantly, the orientation of the first magnet (85) in relation to the
  animal monitoring device (6) can result in a substantial difference in the strength of the
  received radio frequency signal (12) outside of the bolus (4). Placement of the first magnet
  (85) with the second magnetic face (124)(north pole) facing outward in relation to the animal
  monitoring device (6) (north pole designated as "north up" in Figure 7) increases the strength
  of the received radio frequency signal (12) from the animal monitoring device (6) outside of
  the bolus (4) as compared to having the first magnetic face (123)(south pole) facing outward in
  relation to the animal monitoring device (6)(south pole designated as "south up" in Figure 7).
  Depending upon the type and kind of the first magnet (85), the method in accordance with
  embodiments of the invention, defines the first magnetic face (123) as the magnetic face which
  in inward facing relation to the animal monitoring device (6) increases strength of the radio
  frequency signal (12) received at the radio frequency reader (13). The first magnetic face (123)
5 may define the south pole as described; however, the invention is not so limited, and the first
  magnetic face (123) may also define the north pole of the first magnet (85), the method
  selecting the first magnetic face (123) as that face which in the inward facing relation to the
  animal monitoring device (6) produces the greater strength of radio signal frequency outside of
  the bolus (4).
0
          Additionally, having placed the first magnetic face (123)(south pole) facing inwardly
  to increase strength of the received radio signal (12), the first magnet (85) can be rotated to
  through 180 degrees to find the orientation which further increases the strength of the radio
  frequency signal (12) outside of the bolus (4). As shown by Figure 7, the first magnetic (85)
                                                  20

        WO 20121054085                                                      PCTIUS2011/001788
  having the first magnetic face (123)(south pole) facing inwardly in relation to the animal
  monitoring device (6) and the elongate body of the first magnet (85) substantially aligned with
  the longitudinal axis (100) of the animal monitoring device (6) is oriented at zero degrees of
  rotation in relation to the longitudinal axis (100) (as shown in Figure 5). As to this
  embodiment of the invention, this orientation can produce a substantially increased strength of
  received radio signal frequency (12) outside of the bolus (4) as compared to having the
  opposed ends (126)(127) oriented at 180 degrees of rotation in relation to the longitudinal axis
  (I 00)(not shown).
           Now referring primarily, to Figure 8, embodiments of the invention can further include
  a second magnet (130) having a location outside of the bolus (4). The second magnet (130)
   can be orally administered to an animal (3) in similar fashion to the bolus (4). The second
   magnet (130) can comprise a conventional magnet orally administered to animals (3) to
   magnetically capture metal objects (121)      within the rumen of the animal (3). Particular
   embodiments of the second magnet (127) can have dimensional relations the same or similar
   to the first magnet (85) located inside the inert bolus body (86). Interestingly, as shown in
   Figure 8, magnetic coupling of the second magnet (130) to the first magnet (85) within the
   bolus (4) can increase the strength of the radio frequency signal (12) outside of the bolus (4),
   regardless of orientation of the first magnet (85) within the bolus (4), even though the first
   magnet face (123)(south pole) inwardly facing and in zero degree relation to the longitudinal
   axis (100) of the animal monitoring device (6) already had the greatest strength of radio
   frequency signal (12) outside of the bolus (4)(shown as "north up" in Figure 7).
            The results set out in the example shown by Figures 7 and 8, was achieved by
5  submerging the bolus (4) of the embodiment shown in Figure 5, and as above described, in an
   amount of saline solution prepared by dissolving about 27 grams of sodium chloride per liter
   of water. The bolus (4) submerged in the saline solution was placed about 25 feet from the RF
   reader (13) to approximate receiving a signal from a bolus (4) within the rumen of a ruminant
   animal (3) at 75 feet. The bolus (4) between trials was unaltered, except for the orientation of
0  the first magnet (85) in relation to the animal monitoring device (6) contained inside the inert
   bolus body (86). The first magnet (85) was disposed in a first trial with the north face facing
   outwardly from the animal monitoring device, and in a second trial with the south face facing
   outwardly from the animal monitoring device (6). The designation of the first magnetic face
   (123) of the first magnet (85) was defined by the magnetic face which facing inwardly
                                                   21

       WO 20121054085                                                         PCTIUS2011/001788
  generates the greatest radio frequency signal (12) received by the RF reader (13). Accordingly,
  as to the particular embodiment of the invention shown in Figure 5, the south face of the first
  magnetic (85) faces inwardly toward the animal monitoring device (6) and defines the first
  magnetic face (123), while the north pole of the first magnet (85) faces outwardly in relation to
  the animal monitoring device (6) and defines the second magnetic face (124). The first face
  (123) being defined by the south pole of the first magnet (85), a third trial was conducted in
  which the first magnet (85) was rotated 180 degrees in relation to the longitudinal axis (100) of
  the animal monitoring device (6) in reversed relation to the zero degree position. The strength
  of the radio frequency signal (12) received by the RF reader (13) was determined and the first
  magnet was place in zero degree or 180 degree relation to the animal monitoring device (6).
  The results of the trials are set out in the bar graph shown in Figure 7.
          The results set out in the example shown by Figure 8, were achieved by submerging
  the bolus (4) of the embodiment shown in Figure 5 and above described in an amount of saline
  solution prepared by dissolving about 27 grams of sodium chloride per liter of water. The
  bolus (4) submerged in the saline solution was placed about 25 feet from the RF reader (13) to
  approximate receiving a signal from a bolus (4) within the rumen of a ruminant animal (3). As
  to each trial shown in Figure 7, and described above, an additional trial was conducted by
  submerging a second magnet (127) in the saline solution in which the bolus (4) containing the
  first magnet (85) was submerged. In each trial, the second magnet (127) was allowed to
  magnetically couple the first magnet (85) and the strength of the radio frequency signal (12)
  was determined. The results being summarized in the bar graph shown in Figure 8.
  Interestingly, as shown by Figure 9, magnetic coupling of the second magnet (127) with the
  first magnet (85) increased the strength of the radio frequency signal (12).
5
          The radio frequency signal (12) strength calculated based on the reads gathered by the
  RF reader (13) during a period of 15 minutes and then multiplied by the signal to noise ratio to
  produce a RF value utilized to compare strength of radio frequency. As one illustrative
  example, for a particular bolus if the reads are 2 during the 15 minute period and the signal to
0 noise ratio is 90.7 then the RF value is 181.4.
          As can be easily understood from the foregoing, the basic concepts of the present
  invention may be embodied in a variety of ways. The invention involves numerous and varied
  embodiments of animal monitoring system including the best mode.
                                                     22

       WO 20121054085                                                        PCT/US2011/001788
          As such, the particular embodiments or elements of the invention disclosed by the
  description or shown in the figures or tables accompanying this application are not intended to
  be limiting, but rather exemplary of the numerous and varied embodiments generically
  encompassed by the invention or equivalents encompassed with respect to any particular
  element thereof. In addition, the specific description of a single embodiment or element of the
  invention may not explicitly describe all embodiments or elements possible; many alternatives
  are implicitly disclosed by the description and figures.
          It should be understood that each element of an apparatus or each step of a method may
  be described by an apparatus term or method term. Such terms can be substituted where
  desired to make explicit the implicitly broad coverage to which this invention is entitled. As
  but one example, it should be understood that all steps of a method may be disclosed as an
  action, a means for taking that action, or as an element which causes that action. Similarly,
  each element of an apparatus may be disclosed as the physical element or the action which that
  physical element facilitates. As but one example, the disclosure of "an animal monitor" should
  be understood to encompass disclosure of the act of "monitoring an animal" -- whether
  explicitly discussed or not -- and, conversely, were there effectively disclosure of the act of
  "monitoring an animal", such a disclosure should be understood to encompass disclosure of
  "an animal monitor" and even a "means for animal monitoring."          Such alternative terms for
  each element or step are to be understood to be explicitly included in the description.
          In addition, as to each term used it should be understood that unless its utilization in
  this application is inconsistent with such interpretation, common dictionary definitions should
5 be understood to included in the description for each term as contained in the Random House
  Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, second edition, each definition hereby incorporated by
  reference.
          Moreover, for the purposes of the present invention, the term "a" or "an" entity refers
0 to one or more of that entity; for example, "a memory element" refers to one or more memory
  elements. As such, the terms "a" or "an", "one or more" and "at least one" can be used
  interchangeably herein. Furthermore, a compound "selected from the group consisting of'
  refers to one or more of the elements in the list that follows, including combinations of two or
  more of the elements.
                                                  23

       WO 20121054085                                                          PCT/US2011/001788
          All numeric values herein are assumed to be modified by the term "about", whether or
  not explicitly indicated. For the purposes of the present invention, ranges may be expressed as
  from "about" one particular value to "about" another particular value. When such a range is
  expressed, another embodiment includes from the one particular value to the other particular
  value. The recitation of numerical ranges by endpoints includes all the numeric values
  subsumed within that range. A numerical range of one to five includes for example the
  numeric values 1, 1.5, 2, 2.75, 3, 3.80, 4, 5, and so forth. It will be further understood that the
  endpoints of each of the ranges are significant both in relation to the other endpoint, and
  independently of the other endpoint. When a value is expressed as an approximation by use of
  the antecedent "about," it will be understood that the particular value forms another
  embodiment. The term "about" generally refers to a range of numeric values that one of skill
  in the art would consider equivalent to the recited numeric value or having the same function
  or result.
          Moreover, for the purposes of the present invention, the term "a" or "an" entity refers
  to one or more of that entity unless otherwise limited. As such, the terms "a" or "an", "one or
  more" and "at least one" can be used interchangeably herein.
          Thus, the applicant(s) should be understood to claim at least: i) each of the animal
  monitoring devices herein disclosed and described, ii) the related methods disclosed and
  described, iii) similar, equivalent, and even implicit variations of each of these devices and
  methods, iv) those alternative embodiments which accomplish each of the functions shown,
  disclosed, or described, v) those alternative designs and methods which accomplish each of the
5 functions shown as are implicit to accomplish that which is disclosed and described, vi) each
  feature, component, and step shown as separate and independent inventions, vii) the
  applications enhanced by the various systems or components disclosed, viii) the resulting
  products produced by such systems or components, ix) methods and apparatuses substantially
  as described hereinbefore and with reference to any of the accompanying examples, x) the
  various combinations and permutations of each of the previous elements disclosed.
          The background section of this patent application provides a statement of the field of
  endeavor to which the invention pertains. This section may also incorporate or contain
  paraphrasing of certain United States patents, patent applications, publications, or subject
                                                  24

       WO 20121054085                                                         PCT/US2011/001788
  matter of the claimed invention useful in relating information, problems, or concerns about the
  state of technology to which the invention is drawn toward. It is not intended that any United
  States patent, patent application, publication, statement or other information cited or
  incorporated herein be interpreted, construed or deemed to be admitted as prior art with
  respect to the invention.
          The claims set forth in this specification, if any, are hereby incorporated by reference
  as part of this description of the invention, and the applicant expressly reserves the right to use
  all of or a portion of such incorporated content of such claims as additional description to
  support any of or all of the claims or any element or component thereof, and the applicant
  further expressly reserves the right to move any portion of or all of the incorporated content of
  such claims or any element or component thereof from the description into the claims or
  vice-versa as necessary to define the matter for which protection is sought by this application
  or by any subsequent application or continuation, division, or continuation-in-part application
  thereof, or to obtain any benefit of, reduction in fees pursuant to, or to comply with the patent
  laws, rules, or regulations of any country or treaty, and such content incorporated by reference
  shall survive during the entire pendency of this application including any subsequent
  continuation, division, or continuation-in-part application thereof or any reissue or extension
  thereon.
          The claims set forth in this specification, if any, are further intended to describe the
  metes and bounds of a limited number of the preferred embodiments of the invention and are
  not to be construed as the broadest embodiment of the invention or a complete listing of
  embodiments of the invention that may be claimed. The applicant does not waive any right to
5 develop further claims based upon the description set forth above as a part of any continuation,
  division, or continuation-in-part, or similar application.
0
                                                   25

                                               CLAIMS
   1.      An animal monitoring system, comprising:
           a)     an inert bolus body adapted to allow oral administration to a ruminant animal;
 5         b)     an animal monitoring device having a location inside said inert bolus body,
   including:
                  i)       at least one sensor which generates a signal which varies in relation to
   change in a sensed animal characteristic;
                  ii)      a sensor signal encoder which encodes said signal generated by said at
10 least one sensor as encoded sensed animal characteristic information;
                  iii)      a radio frequency signal generator which generates a radio frequency
   signal capable of carrying said encoded sensed animal characteristic information;
                  iv)      an antenna which transmits said radio frequency signal; and
                  v)       a power source which supplies power to said animal monitoring device;
15 and
           c)     a first magnet having a location inside said inert bolus body.
   2.      The animal monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said inert bolus body comprises a
   cured resin cast about said animal monitoring device and said first magnet.
20
   3.      The animal monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said inert bolus body comprises a
   salable container which defines a hollow inside space which receives said animal monitoring
   device and said first magnet.
25 4.      The animal monitoring system of claim 3, further comprising a cured resin cast about
   said animal monitoring device and said first magnet located within said salable container.
   5.      The animal monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said first magnet has a pair of opposed
   faces defining a north pole and a south pole, said south pole disposed in inward facing relation
30 to said animal monitoring device, said north pole disposed in outward facing relation to said
   animal monitoring device.
   6.      The animal monitoring system of claim 5, wherein said first magnet has a generally
   rectangular shape having four sides defining the area of a first magnet face and a second magnet
                                                   26

   face disposed in substantially parallel opposed relation a distance apart, said first face disposed
   in inward facing relation to said animal monitoring device, said first face defining said south
   pole.
 5 7.      The animal monitoring system of claim 1, wherein one or more said sensed animal
   characteristics is selected from the group consisting of: temperature, pH, heart rate, blood
   pressure, and partial pressures of dissolved gases.
   8.      The animal monitoring system of claim 7, wherein one or more said sensor is selected
10 from the group consisting of a tilt sensor, a vibration sensor; temperature sensor, a blood
   pressure sensor, a dissolved gases sensor, a pH sensor, and a heart rate sensor.
   9.      The animal monitoring system of claim 1, further comprising an animal identification
   information encoder which encodes animal identification information associated with said
15 sensed animal characteristic as encoded animal identification information.
   10.     The animal monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said radio frequency generator
   comprises at least an oscillator which generates said radio frequency signal.
20 11.     The animal monitoring system of claim 10, further comprising a radio frequency
   stabilizer which operates to maintain said radio frequency signal within a radio frequency range.
   12.     The animal monitoring system of claim 11, wherein said a radio frequency stabilizer
   maintains said radio frequency signal in the range of about 410MHz and about 440MHz.
25
   13.     The animal monitoring system of claim 11, further comprising a network frequency
   match element which compensates for demodulation of said radio frequency signal passing
   through the mass of said ruminant animal.
30 14.     The animal monitoring system of claim 13, further comprising a microcontroller which
   controls one or more of said sensor signal encoder, said animal identification information
   encoder, said radio frequency signal generator.
                                                   27

   15.      The animal monitoring system of claim 14, further comprising a printed circuit board
   which supports and electrically connects one or more of said microcontroller, said sensor signal
   encoder, said animal identification information encoder, said radio frequency signal generator,
   and said antenna.
 5
   16.      The animal monitoring system of claim 15, wherein said printed circuit board has a
   circular boundary and said antenna comprises an imprinted antenna having a generally circular
   configuration disposed proximate said circular boundary of said printed circuit board.
10 17.      The animal monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said power source comprises a
   battery.
   18.      The animal monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said battery comprises a dry cell
   battery.
15
   19.      The animal monitoring system of claim 1, further comprising a second magnet adapted
   to allow oral administration to a ruminant animal separate from said inert bolus body containing
   said animal monitoring device and said first magnet.
20 20.      The animal monitoring system of claim 1 wherein said second magnet magnetically
   coupled to said first magnet increases transmission of said radio frequency signal capable of
   carrying said encoded animal identification information and said encoded sensed animal
   characteristic information.
25 21.      The animal monitoring system of claim 1, one or more radio frequency readers which
   receive and send said encoded animal identification information and said encoded sensed animal
   characteristic information.
   22.      The animal monitoring system of claim 21, further comprising a reception device which
30 receives said encoded animal identification information and said encoded sensed animal
   characteristic information sent by said one or more radio frequency readers.
                                                  28

   23.      The animal monitoring system of claim 22, further comprising a computer configured to
   receive and provide a user access to said encoded animal identification information and said
   encoded sensed animal characteristic information.
 5 24.      A method of monitoring an animal, comprising the steps of:
            a)     orally administering to a ruminant animal a monitoring device and a first magnet
   contained inside of an inert bolus body, said animal monitoring device including:
                   i)      at least one sensor capable of generating a signal which varies in relation
   to change in a sensed animal characteristic;
10                 ii)     a signal encoder which encodes said signal generated by said sensor as
   encoded sensed animal characteristic information;
                   iii)     a radio frequency signal generator which generates a radio frequency
   signal capable of carrying said encoded sensed animal characteristic information;
                   iv)     a power source which supplies power to said animal monitoring device;
15 and
                   v)      an antenna capable of transmitting said radio frequency signal carrying
   said encoded sensed animal characteristic information; and
            b)     accessing said encoded sensed animal characteristic information carried by said
   radio frequency signal.
20
   25.      The method of monitoring an animal of claim 24, further comprising the step of orally
   administrating to said ruminant animal a second magnet separate from said first magnet
   contained inside of said inert bolus body, said second magnet adapted to magnetically couple
   said first magnet contained inside of said inert bolus body to increase transmission of said radio
25 frequency signal capable of carrying said encoded animal identification information and said
   encoded sensed animal characteristic information.
   26.      The method of monitoring an animal of claim 24, wherein said encoded sensed animal
   characteristic information is selected from the group consisting of: temperature, pH, heart rate,
30 blood pressure, and partial pressures of dissolved gases, or combinations thereof.
   27.      The method of monitoring an animal of claim 26, wherein said monitoring device further
   includes an animal identification information encoder which encodes animal identification
                                                    29

   information related to said sensed animal characteristic as encoded animal identification
   information, and further comprising the steps of:
           a) accessing said encoded animal identification information carried by said radio
   frequency signal; and
 5         b) matching said encoded animal identification information with said encoded sensed
   animal characteristic information carried by said radio frequency signal.
   28.     The method of monitoring an animal of claim 27, further comprising the step of locating
   one or more radio frequency readers capable of receiving said radiofrequency signal carrying
10 said encoded animal identification information and said encoded sensed animal characteristic
   information at a distance from said animal monitoring device.
   29.     The method of monitoring an animal of claim 28, further comprising the step of
   transmitting said encoded animal identification information and said encoded sensed animal
15 characteristic information from said one or more radio frequency readers.
   30.     The method of monitoring an animal of claim 29, further comprising the step of receiving
   said encoded animal identification information and said encoded sensed animal characteristic
   information from said one or more radio frequency readers with a reception device.
20
   31.     The method of monitoring an animal of claim 30, further comprising the step of using a
   computer configured to receive and provide a user access to said encoded animal identification
   information and said encoded sensed animal characteristic information received by said
   reception device.
25
   32.     The method of monitoring an animal of claim 24, wherein said radio frequency generator
   comprises an oscillator which generates said radio frequency signal.
   33.     The method of monitoring an animal of claim 32, wherein said radio frequency generator
30 further comprises a radio frequency stabilizer which operates to maintain said radio frequency
   signal within a radio frequency range.
   34.     The method of monitoring an animal of claim 33, wherein said radio frequency stabilizer
   maintains said radio frequency signal in the range of about 410MHz and about 440MHz.
                                                  30

   35.      The method of monitoring an animal of claim 32, wherein said radio frequency generator
   further comprises a a network frequency match element which compensates for demodulation
   of said radio frequency signal passing through the mass of said ruminant animal.
 5 36.      The method of monitoring an animal of claim 35, wherein said animal monitoring device
   further includes a microcontroller which controls one or more of said sensor signal encoder, said
   animal identification information encoder, and said radio frequency signal generator.
   37.      The method of monitoring an animal of claim 36, wherein said animal monitoring device
10 further includes a printed circuit board which supports and electrically connects one or more of
   said microcontroller, said sensor signal encoder, said animal identification information encoder
   said radio frequency signal generator, and said antenna.
   38.      The method of monitoring an animal of claim 37, wherein said printed circuit board
15 defines a circular boundary having said antenna imprinted proximate said circular boundary.
   39.      The method of monitoring an animal of claim 24, wherein said power source comprises
   a battery.
20 40.      The method of monitoring an animal of claim 39, wherein said battery comprises a dry
   cell battery.
25
30
                                                  31

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
