   Abstract
   Financial institutions providing undertakings, guarantees or bonds to guarantee compliance or
   performance by a third party (the 'Insured') of a legal obligation to the benefit of another
   third party "the 'Protected Entity'), force those third parties into a market which is
 5 monopolised by a small number of institutions.
   This situation has resulted in limited or no competition in the financial market of giving of
   undertakings, guarantees or bonds for a variety of sectors, with fees, charges and other
   matters being charged to the Insured which are largely internalised risk fees.
   This application pertains to the utilisation of a security interest over a Life Insurance Bond as
.0 a means to ensure the compliance or performance by the Insured of a legal obligation, for the
   benefit of the Protected Entity in lieu of an undertaking, guarantee or bond.
   The Innovative step for this new application of security interests over Life Insurance Bonds is
   to treat the bond as general property, and use it for all purposes permitted by law, for that
   kind of property.
.5

      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

    Description
    1. Technical Problem
    There are a variety of sources of legal obligations which can arise, and generally, for
    companies, if the client (the "Insured") become insolvent, then a party that is the beneficiary
  5 of the legal obligation (the "Protected Entity") might lose money, assets or worse.
    As a result, financial instruments have been developed to use as a form of security for the
    Insured to ensure the compliance or performance with the relevant legal obligation(s).
    As those forms of security may never be called upon, financial institutions who offer those
    forms of security, may be entitled to charge fees, interest and other charges against the
 .0 Insured, without ever actually needing to take a step or do anything. This is because the
    security is a contingent liability subject to the non-compliance or failure to perform by the
    Insured.
    This situation has also given rise to monies being held in trust accounts or in non-productive
    forms, hindering the growth of the entity and the Australian economy.
 .5 The investment life is ended by the security either being replaced or no longer needed. This
    results in an artificial market disruption by removal of capital investments independent of
    market conditions. It may be inappropriate to disrupt the investment, or end the investment
    because the security is no longer needed.
    This market has been left unchecked and without legitimate competition in Australia. The
 .0 market is focused on short term investments, rather than longer term, sustainable and stable
    investments.
    2.   Solution to Problem
    A Life Insurance Bond is a place where capital can be invested with a long term vision for
    investment, usually a period exceeding 10 years.
25  A security interest over a Life Insurance Bond can be issued for the benefit of the Protected
    Entity over the Bond. This Bond provides the same level of financial security as an
    undertaking or guarantee issued from a Financial Institution.
    This form of vehicle allows:
    *   Long term progressive investment
30  e   Insured parties to plan and save for commercial ventures over longer periods of time
    *   Third parties (such as parents) to create investment vehicles for others
    This is an innovation patent, in that the new and useful step is to utilise a security interest
    over a life investment bond or similar product to meet the relevant legal obligation(s).

    3. Advantageous effects of invention
    Insured Parties benefit by:
    *  Meeting legal obligations
    *  Long term savings and capital raising for investment in non-superannuation investments
  5 9  No need to 'unwind' the investment
    0  Lower costs and fees
    *  Security
    *  Can be used as part of the succession or estate planning process
    *  The product can be tailored rather than it being solely a general insurance product
 .0 *  Broader spectrum of the kinds of products that can be used as security compliance or
       performance with the relevant legal obligation(s)
    *  Investments can be made by individuals, company's or other entities, regardless of age,
       financial situation or other unique situations
    *  Higher control over the investment of their capital in investment streams
 .5 0  Opportunity for withdrawal or reinvestment of returns
    *  Potential reduction in taxation payable on investment returns
    Protected Entities benefit by:
    *  Legal obligations owed to them being met
    *  Bonds cannot be touched without consent of Protected Entity
20  *  Broader spectrum of the kinds of products that can be used as security compliance or
       performance with the relevant legal obligation(s)
    " No accounts or other obligations being owed by the Protected Entity
    *  The product can be tailored rather than it being solely a general insurance product
    "  The deemed 'inactive' bank account / unclaimed monies provisions within the Banking
25     Act 1959 (3 years of no activity) do not apply
    *  Reduced timeframes for being able to act under the security, compared to other Financial
       Institutions
    *  Flexibility given by the interest being a security interest, subject to terms which can be
       negotiated

  Investment Funds Managers benefit by:
  *  Longer term perspective on investment
  *  No need to unwind investment when security no longer needed
  "  Regulatory and tax environment more supportive of longer term investment
5 e  Investments can be made by individuals, company's or other entities, regardless of age,
     financial situation or other unique situations
  *  The product can be tailored rather than it being solely a general insurance product
  *  Regular income payments are not made, resulting in reinvestment of capital

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

   Claims
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1. To use a security interest over a Life Insurance Bond for the benefit of the Protected
      Entity to comply with an obligation owed by the Insured Party to the Protected Entity.
 5
   2. The security interest over a Life Insurance Bond as claimed in Claim 1, can be used to
      comply with an obligation that is the provision of a Financial Assurance or other surety,
      guarantee or undertaking owed by the Insured Party to a Protected Entity.
.0 3. The security interest over a Life Insurance Bond as claimed in Claim 1, can be used to
      comply with an obligation that is required by or used for the benefit of an instrument that
      creates an interest in land, owed by the Insured Party to the Protected Entity.
   4. The security interest over a Life Insurance Bond as claimed in Claim 1, can be used to
.5    acquire or deal with an interest in property, including real or personal property.

