                                           ABSTRACT
        An electronic lock with a wireless module configured to communicate wirelessly
using a selected wireless communication protocol. The lock includes a hardware profile
selector, such as a plurality of switches, which can be configured to set the wireless protocol
used by the wireless module. For example, the hardware profile selector can be adjusted to
change the wireless protocol used by the lock.

                                  AUSTRALIA
                                 PatentsAct 1990
                              Spectrum Brands, Inc.
        ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                        STANDARD PATENT
Invention title:   Electronic Lock Having Hardware Based Multi- Wireless Profile
                   Detection And Setting
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the
best method of performing it known to us:

                                                  1
      ELECTRONIC LOCK HAVING HARDWARE BASED MULTI- WIRELESS
                           PROFILE DETECTION AND SETTING
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]        This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No 2013334760,
which is the Australian national phase application corresponding to PCT/US2013/066185
filed 22 October 2013, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application, Serial
No.61/717,141 filed on October 23, 2012, entitled Electronic Lock having Hardware Based
Multi- Wireless Profile Detection and Setting the entire contents of which are hereby
incorporated by cross-reference for all purposes
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]        The present invention relates to electronic locks, and, more particularly, to an
electronic lock having hardware based multi-wireless profile detection and setting.
BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
[0003]        Electronic locks are commercially available having a capability of
communicating via using a standardized short range wireless radio frequency (r.f.)
communication protocol, such as for example, the Zigbee and Z-Wave wireless
communications protocols. Lock and systems developers often customize their respective
commercial offerings to include customer specific communication hardware and methods
that utilize variations of standard protocols. As such, each electronic lock hardware unit has
to be customized to support a particular customer's system communications configuration of
a plurality of potential customer configurations. Thus, a manufacturer of electronic locks
must have on-hand separate electronic lock hardware units, i.e., stock keeping units (SKUs),
which satisfy the communications requirements of each of its customers, thus adding cost
and complexity in the entire supply chain in addition to potentially adding confusion in the
distribution channel for the distributors and dealers who deal with these variations.
[0004]        What is needed in the art is an electronic lock having hardware based multi
wireless profile detection and setting, wherein a single electronic lock is configurable to
enable an installer or user to set a desired wireless communication protocol profile, or
configuration, to allow the electronic lock to communicatively join the system in which the
electronic lock is to be incorporated.

                                                 2
[0005]       Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply
the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but
not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or
steps.
[0006]       Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
has been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context
for the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters
form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the
present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this specification.
[0007]       According to one aspect, the present invention provides an electronic lock
comprising:
             a latch assembly including a bolt movable between an extended position and a
retracted position;
             a circuit configured to control movement of the bolt between the extended and
retracted positions, wherein the circuit includes a processing unit, a memory unit having
stored a plurality of wireless profiles each corresponding to a wireless communications
protocol, a wireless module configured to communicate wirelessly using a selected wireless
communication protocol, and a hardware profile selector configured to set the selected
wireless communication protocol from the plurality of wireless profiles stored in the memory
unit.
[0008]       In some embodiments, A plurality of wireless profiles are stored in the memory
which correspond to wireless communications protocols. The wireless module is configured
to communicate wirelessly using a selected wireless communication protocol, which is set
by the hardware profile selector. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the wireless
profiles stored in the memory unit correspond with multiple profiles of the Zigbee wireless
protocol and/or multiple profiles of the Z-wave wireless protocol. In some cases, the
plurality of wireless profiles include profiles codes corresponding to respective wireless
protocols.

                                                3
[0009]       Depending on the circumstances, the processing unit could be a microprocessor
with a plurality of input pins electronically connected with the hardware profile selector. For
example, the hardware profile selector could include a plurality of switches configurable to
set the selected wireless protocol. In some cases, the plurality of switches may be user
actuatable switches, such as dip switches, momentary switches and/or slide switches.
[0010]       According to another aspect, the invention provides a method of selecting a
wireless protocol for an electronic lock, the method comprising the steps of:
             providing an electronic lock with a wireless module configured to facilitate
wireless communications, wherein the electronic lock includes a hardware profile selector
configured to set a selected wireless protocol used by the wireless module between a first
wireless protocol and a second wireless protocol; and
             adjusting the hardware profile selector to change the selected wireless protocol
used by the wireless module between the first wireless protocol and the second wireless
protocol.
[0011]       For example, an electronic lock could be provided with a wireless module that
facilitates wireless communications. The electronic lock may include a hardware profile
selector configured to set a selected wireless protocol used by the wireless module between a
first wireless protocol and a second wireless protocol. The hardware profile selector is
adjusted to change the selected wireless protocol used by the wireless module between the
first wireless protocol and the second wireless protocol. In some cases, the adjusting step
changes the wireless protocol between the Zigbee wireless protocol and Z-wave wireless
protocol. Embodiments are contemplated in which the hardware profile selector includes a
plurality of switches configurable to set the selected wireless protocol. For example, the
adjusting step includes changing a position of one or more of the plurality of switches.
[0012]       According to a further aspect, the invention provides an electronic lock
comprising:
             a latch assembly including a bolt movable between an extended position and a
retracted position;
             a circuit configured to control movement of the bolt between the extended and
retracted positions;

                                                 4
             a wireless module configured to communicate wirelessly using a selected
wireless communication protocol;
             a non-transitory computer-readable medium having wireless profile data
including a plurality of wireless profile codes and a computer program code stored thereon;
             a hardware profile selector configured to set the selected wireless communication
protocol;
             a processor in communication with the computer-readable memory configured to
carry out instructions in accordance with the computer program code, wherein the computer
program code, when executed by the processor, causes the processor to perform operations
comprising:
                detecting switch conditions of the hardware profile selector;
                identifying a selected wireless profile code stored in the computer-readable
medium corresponding to the switch conditions of the hardware profile selector; and
                responsive to identification of the selected wireless profile code, configuring
the wireless module to communicate using a wireless protocol corresponding to the selected
wireless profile code.
[0013]       The electronic lock includes a non-transitory computer-readable medium having
wireless profile data including a plurality of wireless profile codes and a computer program
code stored thereon. A hardware profile selector is provided that is configured to set the
selected wireless communication protocol. The lock includes a processor in communication
with the computer-readable memory configured to carry out instructions in accordance with
the computer program code. When the computer program code is executed by the processor,
the processor detects the switch conditions of the hardware profile selector. This allows the
processor to identify a selected wireless profile code stored in the computer-readable
medium corresponding to the switch conditions of the hardware profile selector. Upon
identification of the selected protocol, the wireless module is configured to communicate
using a wireless protocol corresponding to the selected wireless profile code.
[0014]       Additional features and advantages of the invention will become apparent to
those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of the
illustrated embodiment exemplifying the best mode of carrying out the invention as presently
perceived.

                                                 5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0015]       Fig. 1A is a side view of an electronic lock in accordance with an embodiment of
the present invention, installed on a door and with the door show in phantom lines.
[0016]       Fig. TB is a perspective view of the electronic lock of Fig. 1 A, as viewed from
the exterior of the door.
[0017]       Fig. IC is a perspective view of the electronic lock of Fig. 1 A as viewed from
the interior of the door.
[0018]       Fig. 2 is an exploded view of the electronic lock of Figs. 1A-IC.
[0019]       Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the interior chassis of the electronic lock of Fig. 2,
with the upper cover and daughter card removed.
[0020]       Fig. 4 is a block diagram of a portion of the control electronics of the interior
chassis of Fig. 3, according to an embodiment of the invention.
[0021]       Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the
several views. The exemplifications set out herein illustrate an embodiment of the invention,
and such exemplifications are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in
any manner.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0022]       Referring now to the drawings and particularly to Figs. 1A-IC and 2, there is
shown an electronic lock (EL) in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention
for mounting on a door D, and which includes an interior chassis 1, an exterior chassis 2, a
mounting plate 3, an adapter 4, a latch assembly 5, and a strike 6.
[0023]       As shown in Fig. 2, latch assembly 5 is of a configuration well known in the art,
and includes a bolt actuator mechanism 7, and a bolt 8. Mounting plate 3 is used to mount
the electronic lock to the door D. Adapter 4 is used to adapt the electronic lock to a particular
hole opening in the door D.

                                                  6
[0024]       Referring also to Fig. 3, interior chassis 1 includes the electronics circuitry 9 for
the electronic lock, and further includes a manual tumpiece 10. Manual turnpiece 10 is used
on the interior side of door D to operate the bolt actuator mechanism 7 of latch assembly 5,
and in turn to extend and retract bolt 8 (see also Fig. IC). The electronics circuitry 9 includes
a base board 11 and a removable daughter card 12. In Fig. 3, a removable cover 13 is
provided to cover over the base board 11 and daughter card 12, when cover 13 is in the
installed position. Daughter card 12 is a wireless communications module that facilitates
wireless communications with an external device though a desired wireless communications
protocol, e.g., Zigbee, Z-wave, etc.
[0025]       Referring again to Fig 2, exterior chassis 2 includes a keypad 14 for receiving a
user input. Keypad 14 is electrically connected to the base board 11 of electronics circuitry
9, such as for example by an electrical cable 15. When the user inputs a valid code via
keypad 14 that is recognized by the electronics circuitry 9, an electrical motor (not show) is
energized to retract the bolt 8 of latch assembly 5, thus permitting door D (see Fig. IB) to be
opened from a closed position. Alternatively, a key actuator 16, having a removable key K,
is provided for manually operating latch assembly 5 from the exterior of the door D.
[0026]       Referring particularly to Figs. 3 and Fig. 4, daughter card 12 is a wireless
communications module that facilitates wireless communications with an external device
through a desired wireless communications protocol, e.g., Zigbee, Z-wave, etc. In
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, base board 11 and/or daughter card
12 of electronics circuitry 9 is configurable to enable an installer or user to set a desired
wireless protocol Profile, i.e., configuration, corresponding to a standard wireless protocol or
a desired variation of the standard wireless protocol, so as to allow the electronic lock to
communicatively join a system into which the electronic lock is being inserted. For example,
multiple profiles could be provided for the Zigbee protocol based on different manufacturer
implementations. Likewise, as an example, multiple profiles could be provided for the Z
wave protocol based on different manufacturer implementations.
[0027]       Electronics circuitry 9 may include, for example, an EMBER Corporation
EM357 chip along with associated devices to handle all IEEE 802.15.4 operations. The chip
and associated devices is driven by a 24.00 MHz crystal which is used to produce other

                                                 7
internal clocks. Additional devices, such as LED's, switches, other integrated circuits,
antenna and others are designed into electronics circuitry 9.
[0028]       Referring to Fig. 4, electronics circuitry 9 includes a processing unit 17, a
memory unit 18, and a hardware profile selector 19. Processing unit 17 includes a
commercially available microprocessor or a custom built processing unit (ASIC        =
Application Specific Integrated Circuit) and associated input/output (I 0) circuitry, and is
configured for electronic communication with memory unit 18 and hardware profile selector
19. A number of GPIO (General Input-Output) pins are connected to the microprocessor.
The state of these GPIO pins can be set by the user (digital High "1" or Low "0") via a set of
switches of the hardware profile selector 19. Processing unit 17 is configured such that
during a system boot-up process (e.g., at power up) or a designated profile selection event,
processing unit 17 reads the configuration of these GPIO pins.
[0029]       Memory unit 18 is an electronic semiconductor memory device, such as for
example, a read only memory (ROM), erasable programmable read only memory (EPROM),
electrically erasable programmable read only memory (EEPROM), embedded memory in the
processing unit 17 etc. As shown in Fig. 4, memory unit 18 is configured to store a plurality
of wireless protocol Profiles #1-#n associated with the desired wireless communication
protocol. Each wireless protocol Profile stored in memory unit 18 corresponds to a standard
wireless protocol and/or a specific variation of the standard wireless protocol as dictated by
the wireless communications system requirements of a respective customer. Alternatively, or
in addition, it is contemplated that memory unit 18 may store a plurality of sets of wireless
protocol Profiles, with each set of wireless protocol Profiles being associated with a
respective wireless communication protocol.
[0030]       Hardware profile selector 19 is a set of switches that is used to generate a multi
digit binary number, wherein for example, a switch open condition represents a binary "0"
Low and a switch closed condition represents a binary "1"High. The number of switches
used and/or physically present in hardware profile selector 19 will determine the number of
wireless protocol Profiles that are selectable in memory unit 18. For example, three switches
may be used for the binary range of 000 through 111, thus providing eight possible
combinations that may be used to access eight different wireless protocol Profiles. In some
embodiments, other computer number systems could be used to encode the profile location

                                                  8
or position while the current invention shows a binary coded profile position. In some cases,
the hardware profile selector 19 could be configured for negative logic so a "0" corresponds
with an "on" or "high" condition.
[0031]       Hardware profile selector 19 may be a set of DIP switches, or alternatively a
combination of DIP switches and one or more momentary switches. Such momentary
switches may be a designated dual purpose switch, such as one or more of the buttons of the
keypad 14, or other momentary switch(es) on base board 11. The one or more momentary
switches, for example, would be used in wireless protocol profile selection at power up only
or at a designated profile selection event, such as at an installer' s specific request for profile
selection, when a physical interaction with the user/installer is required for switch condition
setting selection in hardware profile selector 19. However, non-momentary switches, such as
DIP switches, once set do not require physical interaction with the user/installer during
wireless protocol profile selection. In some embodiments, for example, a slide switch sold
under model number CUS-12TB by Copal Electronics could be used in combination with
one or more momentary switches and/or DIP switches of hardware profile selector 19.
[0032]       In accordance with an embodiment, on boot-up or a designated profile selection
event, processing unit 17 executes program instructions to run a profile selection scheme in
which processing unit 17 of electronics circuitry 9 reads the switch positions of hardware
profile selector 19, and automatically retrieves from memory unit 18 a desired wireless
communication protocol Profile from the plurality of wireless protocol Profiles stored in
memory unit 18. For example, a Profile code 101 of hardware profile selector 19 may be
correlated to wireless protocol Profile #1 in memory unit 18, a Profile code 110 of hardware
profile selector 19 may be correlated to wireless protocol Profile #2 in memory unit 18, etc.
Processing unit 17 then executes the selected wireless protocol Profile in configuring
electronics circuitry 9 for the communication system in which the electronic lock is being
installed.
[0033]       If no change is detected (e.g., since last boot-up), processing unit 17 will execute
a Default or Loaded Profile.
[0034]       If a change is detected (since last boot-up), then the wireless protocol Profile
corresponding to the configuration defined by the switch settings will be loaded in the

                                                  9
program execution memory of processing unit 17. Program execution memory may be
processor memory on the microprocessor module, or alternatively may be a portion of
memory unit 18.
[0035]        From this time on, the electronics circuitry 9 will execute the same profile.
[0036]        To switch to a different Profile of the wireless protocol Profiles stored in
memory unit 18, the following sequence is executed:
              a. power down electronics circuitry 9 (or use of digital switch to perform soft
reset);
              b. reconfigure state of GPIO pins through a selection of the switch conditions in
the hardware profile selector 19;
              c. power electronics circuitry 9 back up;
              d. processing unit 17 loads the new wireless protocol Profile into processor
memory from memory unit 18 based on the switch conditions set in the hardware profile
selector 19 and the new wireless protocol Profile is executed from that time on.
[0037]        While the GPIOs are typically used or read by the microprocessor of processing
unit 17, it is contemplated that any pins or input could be used that can be read at power-up
or before the Profile code is required to load.
[0038]        Advantageously, the present invention allows the flexibility to add new profiles
on the same electronic lock (EL) unit, i.e., stock keeping unit (SKU), to accommodate the
various wireless protocol Profile configuration requirements of multiple customers, without
having to create new hardware specific to a particular customer, e.g., system provider. Also,
the present invention provides flexibility during manufacturing of the electronic lock (EL)
SKU if and when a new custom wireless protocol Profile is required by a customer.
[0039]        While this invention has been described with respect to an embodiment of the
invention, the present invention may be further modified within the spirit and scope of this
disclosure. This application is therefore intended to cover any variations, uses, or adaptations
of the invention using its general principles. Further, this application is intended to cover

                                                 10
such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in
the art to which this invention pertains.
[0040]       Although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular
means, materials and embodiments, from the foregoing description, one skilled in the art can
easily ascertain the essential characteristics of the present disclosure and various changes and
modifications may be made to adapt the various uses and characteristics without departing
from the spirit and scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims.

                                                11
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.           An electronic lock comprising:
             a latch assembly including a bolt movable between an extended position and a
retracted position;
             a circuit configured to control movement of the bolt between the extended and
retracted positions, wherein the circuit includes a processing unit, a memory unit having
stored a plurality of wireless profiles each corresponding to a wireless communications
protocol, a wireless module configured to communicate wirelessly using a selected wireless
communication protocol, and a hardware profile selector configured to set the selected
wireless communication protocol from the plurality of wireless profiles stored in the memory
unit.
2.           The electronic lock as recited in claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the
wireless profiles stored in the memory unit correspond with multiple profiles corresponding
with the Zigbee wireless protocol or multiple profiles corresponding with the Z-wave
wireless protocol.
3.           The electronic lock as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of wireless
profiles include profiles codes corresponding to a respective wireless protocol.
4.           The electronic lock as recited in claim 3, wherein the processing unit is
programmed to set the selected protocol of the wireless module responsive to the hardware
profile selector.
5.           The electronic lock as recited in claim 1, wherein the processing unit is a
microprocessor with a plurality of input pins electronically connected with the hardware
profile selector.
6.           The electronic lock as recited in claim 5, wherein the hardware profile selector
includes a plurality of switches configurable to set the selected wireless protocol.
7.           The electronic lock as recited in claim 6, wherein the plurality of switches
includes one or more user-actuatable switches.
8.           The electronic lock as recited in claim 6, wherein the plurality of switches
includes one or more dip switches.
9.           The electronic lock as recited in claim 6, wherein the plurality of switches
includes one or more momentary switches.
10.          The electronic lock as recited in claim 6, wherein the plurality of switches
includes one or more slide switches.

                                                12
11.          The electronic lock as recited in claim 6, wherein the plurality of switches
includes a digital switch set by another processing unit.
12.          A method of selecting a wireless protocol for an electronic lock, the method
comprising the steps of:
providing an electronic lock with a wireless module configured to facilitate wireless
communications, wherein the electronic lock includes a hardware profile selector configured
to set a selected wireless protocol used by the wireless module between a first wireless
protocol and a second wireless protocol; and
adjusting the hardware profile selector to change the selected wireless protocol used by the
wireless module between the first wireless protocol and the second wireless protocol.
13.          The method as recited in claim 12, wherein the adjusting step changes the
wireless protocol between multiple profiles of the Zigbee wireless protocol or multiple
profiles of the Z-wave wireless protocol.
14.          The electronic lock as recited in claim 12, wherein the hardware profile selector
includes a plurality of switches configurable to set the selected wireless protocol.
15.          The electronic lock as recited in claim 14, wherein the adjusting step includes
changing a position of one or more of the plurality of switches.
16.          The electronic lock as recited in claim 15, wherein the plurality of switches
includes one or more of dip switches, momentary switches, or slide switches.
17.          An electronic lock comprising:
             a latch assembly including a bolt movable between an extended position and a
retracted position;
             a circuit configured to control movement of the bolt between the extended and
retracted positions;
             a wireless module configured to communicate wirelessly using a selected
wireless communication protocol;
             a non-transitory computer-readable medium having wireless profile data
including a plurality of wireless profile codes and a computer program code stored thereon;
             a hardware profile selector configured to set the selected wireless communication
protocol;
a processor in communication with the computer-readable memory configured to carry out
instructions in accordance with the computer program code, wherein the computer program
code, when executed by the processor, causes the processor to perform operations
comprising:

                                                13
                detecting switch conditions of the hardware profile selector;
                identifying a selected wireless profile code stored in the computer-readable
medium corresponding to the switch conditions of the hardware profile selector; and
                responsive to identification of the selected wireless profile code, configuring
the wireless module to communicate using a wireless protocol corresponding to the selected
wireless profile code.
18.         The electronic lock of claim 17, wherein the wireless profile data includes a first
wireless profile code corresponding to a first implementation of the Zigbee wireless protocol
and a second wireless profile code corresponding to a second implementation of the Zigbee
wireless protocol.
19.         The electronic lock of claim 18, wherein the hardware profile selector is
configured to switch the wireless module between multiple profiles of the Zigbee wireless
protocol or multiple profiles of the Z-wave wireless protocol.
20.         The electronic lock of claim 19, wherein the hardware profile selector is one or
more of dip switches, momentary switches, or slide switches.
21.         The electronic lock of claim 17, wherein the processor is configured to execute
the computer program code responsive to boot up of the electronic lock.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
