<removed-apn> Abstract
A media control valve includes a body, a plunger assembly of multiple components
housed in the body with a plunger control valve cap assembly secured to the body
for housing a control knob. The body and the plunger assembly include resilient seals
between adjacent multiple components of the plunger assembly to permit relative
movement therebetween during assembly and use.

       WO 20131066370                                                        PCTIUS2012/000525
                                           Title of Invention:
                                         Media Control Valve
                                               Inventors:
                                        Phuong Taylor Nguyen
                                           Corrynn Newman
                                           BACKGROUND
 [001] Field of the Invention. The present invention is related to media control and, more
 specifically, media control valves used to control the flow of a media into a fluid stream as part
of an apparatus for treatment of a surface.
 [002] Description of the Related Art. A typical manual media control valve is disclosed in U.S.
Pat. No. 4,322,058("the '058 patent"). The valve of the '058 patent is attached to a media vessel
and controls the flow of the media from the media vessel into a conduit containing a fluid stream.
This conduit terminates in a nozzle. Fluid and media pass through the nozzle at high speed and
are typically used to treat surfaces.
 [003] A more recent pneumatic actuated media control valve is the pipe side valve shown and
described in U.S. Pat. No. 3,476,440 ("the 440 patent"), issued to Thompson, et al on Mar. 30,
 1982. The valve described in this patent has been has been widely accepted in applications
where the flow of particulate material, particularly abrasive material, from a tank or hopper, is
fed into a blast line for propelling the particulate material or media through a nozzle.
[004] As shown in the '440 Patent, the valve has a unitary plunger which is movable axially
with respect to a lateral particulate material inlet between positions closing and opening the inlet.
The plunger is moved by pneumatic or spring force against the piston. The valve body passage
through which the plunger is disposed, and the plunger itself, are formed to have abrasion
resistant surfaces. A lateral air pipe nipple sealed to the valve body receives the abrasive
material flowing through the valve for use in blasting operations.
[005] Various improvements to the basic media control valve have been proposed. For
example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,407,379 ("the '379 patent") and U.S. Pat. No. 5,401,205 ("the '205
patent") disclose media control valves having a media passage between the media control valve
and the conduit. The media passage converges into a slot-shaped outlet in the conduit so as to
                                                  1

       WO 20131066370                                                       PCTIUS2012/000525
reduce the perimeter of the outlet placed perpendicular to air flow and consequently reduce
turbulence as air passes across the outlet. The media control valves disclosed in the '205 and '379
patents are particularly useful in metering and dispensing sodium bicarbonate media.
[006]   Over the years many modifications to media control valves have been proposed. For
example, U.S. Pat No. 5,810,045 ("the '045 patent") discloses a pneumatic actuated metering
control valve for introducing particulate materials into a high-pressure air stream and suggests
several uses for this valve, such as, by way of example, introducing fluid catalytic cracking
catalyst particles into fluid catalytic cracking units used to crack and reform various petroleum
based products, introducing particulate catalysts into other kinds of chemical processes and
spraying particulate ingredients on adhesive substrates as        part of various    manufacturing
processes.
[007]   U.S. Pat. No. 5,407,379 ("the '379 patent") and U.S. Pat. No. 5,401,205 ("the '205
patent") disclose a pneumatic actuated media control valve having a media passage between the
media control valve and the conduit. The media passage converges into a slot-shaped outlet in
the conduit so as to reduce the perimeter of the outlet placed perpendicular to air flow and
consequently reduce turbulence as air passes across the outlet. The '045 patent also includes the
use of multiple seals around a plunger of the valve with an exhaust therebetween to remove any
contaminants that breach the seals.
[008] Another type of valve used in the industry is the manual metering valve shown and
described in my U.S. Patent No. 7,549,911, entitled: "Media Control Valve with Pressure
Balance Loop".      The valve there shown incorporates a bypass loop for equalizing pressure
during startup operation. Specifically, the valve includes a pressure fluid inlet upstream of the
valve media outlet. When the valve system is off, the system is typically depressurized. In typical
applications, a backflow into the valve is caused by the fact that on startup the pressure increase
in the media tank is at a slower rate than the pressure increase in the blast line. Thus, there is a
backflow from the blast line into the valve until both the media tank and the blast line pressures
are equal. This continues until the valve is again equalized with the media flowing through the
valve and into the pressurized fluid stream. The valve so disclosed incorporates a balancing or
equalizing pressure loop for minimizing or reducing the backflow of pressurized fluid into the
valve through the media outlet port during startup. The valve also includes a cleanout port for
                                                  2

        WO 2013/066370                                                       PCT/US20121000525
cleaning out debris that may obstruct media flow and residue media after use. This permits clean
out of the valve without disassembly. The ability to clean out the valve after use further reduces
wear and tear on the valve and minimizes maintenance and repair.
 [009] Despite the various improvements in myriad valve designs for a variety of applications,
the valve disclosed in the Thompson patent is to this day a widely accepted valve for blasting
 operations. As desirable as this valve is, there remains room for improvement, especially with
 respect to wear reduction, as well as repair and maintenance of the valve.
 [010] One of the most critical issues with remote actuated media control valves is the life of the
 valve. The abrasive media can damage the valve beyond use in a short period of time, requiring
 replacement or substantial repair. Many of the valves of the prior art, as particularly shown in the
 '440 and '045 patents, typically have a sleeve that consists of a hardened liner (tungsten carbide
 or hardened steel) jacketed with a softer material. In these configurations, the hard liner is
jacketed and bonded with stainless steel with the ID of the jacket being flush with the ID of the
 hard liner. The valve plunger is of the same type construction, except that the jacket is a hard
 material and the inside is a softer more workable material. It is not uncommon for any of these
 valves to malfunction after some use due to the sleeve and plunger locking up, thereby not
 allowing the plunger to reciprocate within of the sleeve. In some cases, solid hardened sleeves
 are utilized.  In either case when plungers lock up or seize, accelerated wear results on the
 adjacent components of the valve such as the body, seat, and base.
 [011] The '045 patent purports to keep particulates from entering the cylinder chamber, and
 thereby improve the life of the valve. However, this patent does not address the more frequent
 mode of failure where the plunger binds against the sleeve, or is seized. A gap is required for
 assembly of the plunger into the sleeve. Any feasible designed gap will allow migration of
 particles smaller than the gap. In addition, as the plunger and sleeve are abraded, the gap will
 become progressively larger and allow larger abrasive particles to migrate.
 [012] Most, if not all of the prior art valve designs use a plunger sleeve design. All of these
 valves place the plunger seal(s) above the sleeve. While these designs have been effective at
 sealing, there are two issues. First is the accessibility of the seals. Many of these valves use a
 single plunger seal above the sleeve which is relatively easy to access but sometimes requires a
                                                  3

       WO 2013/066370                                                        PCT/US20121000525
user to completely remove the valve to properly replace the plunger seals. More recent valve
designs include up to three plunger seals with an external o-ring. At least one prior art valve has
four plunger seals with a stainless steel bushing stacked above the sleeve. in many of these
valves it is very difficult to change out the seals due to the deep location of the seals with the
inherently gritty environment In valves utilizing the multiple plunger seal design, the plunger
seals are stacked on top of each other which is a blind install that does not permit visual
verification of proper seal alignment or seal installation. Also, this will create boundaries where
two soft surfaces press against each other, and which creates an opportunity for the seals to
misalign when stressed during plunger movement or during installation or operation.
[013] It has been determined that this seizing can be attributed to several factors. First, the
stainless jacket on the sleeve wears at the ID more quickly than at the hard liner primarily
because of the difference in hardness of the two materials. This creates a beveled surface
between the sleeve stainless ID and plunger OD where particles would cause binding. Second,
the stainless ID section of the sleeve is softer than some of the abrasive media used, such as
aluminum oxide grit or hardened steel grit. These harder particles can dig into the relatively
softer yet still rigid stainless steel and cause binding between the plunger and sleeve.
 [014] Third, this design permits the accumulation of grit within the plunger-to-sleeve gap. The
reciprocating motion combined with the location of the plunger, sleeve, and piston of this valve
and its many variations results in a scooping effect that over time will bind this type of valve.
 Each time the valve is actuated, a small amount of grit or abrasives, smaller than the plunger to
sleeve gap, is scooped or dragged upward in between the sleeve and plunger. When the
pneumatic signal is removed and vented, the plunger returns to the closed position, dragging
 some of the small grit back but leaves a small residual of grit or abrasives. With each actuation,
the residual grit accumulates. After many cycles, the accumulated grit will effectively form a
 wedge that will bind the OD of the plunger against the ID of the sleeve. Easily crushable
mineral abrasives do not cause as much of a problem as more resilient abrasives such as
 hardened steel grit and Aluminum oxide. This is a problem with all plunger-sleeve designs in
the airblast industry regardless of their hardness and regardless of their material composition.
 [015] Recently, valve designs including an offset sleeve internal diameter and plunger seals of
 the spooled sleeve have been designed in an attempt to minimize the issue by not allowing or
                                                    4

        WO 2013/066370                                                          PCT/US20121000525
significantly reducing the accumulation of residual abrasives. In addition, the grit that does
bypass the seals is so small that they polish the OD of the plunger and consequently improve the
life of the seals above the first one. This is the benefit implementing the aforementioned offset
sleeve feature with the spool sleeve seals.
[016]     The current state of the art for these types of valve is a piston actuated design where a
compressed air signal is used to apply force against a spring counteracted piston sealed with
piston seals, both within a cylinder. When the compressed air signal is removed, the spring
pushes the piston back to its off position which is generally closed. The plunger which is
fastened to the piston is what directly opens and closes the abrasive flow.
[017]     The weakness of this design is that it is not tolerant of particulate contamination which is
inherent of the dusty and gritty conditions of an airblast environment. This contamination can
originate from two sources. First is the ambient environment of the equipment and valve. In the
valve as disclosed in the '058 Patent, and its many variations, the ambient dust will be sucked in
when the piston returns to the off position. As the piston travels to its off position, the volume
above the piston increases and must draw air from an ambient source. As the dust and grit laden
ambient air is drawn in, so too is the grit. Many of the prior art valves, try to mitigate this by
 installing breather vents with particulate filtration varying from 15-90 microns.           When the
 breather vent is sized properly, the particulates that pass through and enter the cylinder are not
 large enough to cause the piston to jam, or seize. Breather vents are an additional cost and
 properly sized fine breather vents are even more expensive. Some end users have even tried to
 replace the vents with cheaper larger micron vents and have experienced failures. The second
 source of grit contamination is from the compressed signal line. Blast systems with inadequately
 supplied compressed airflow tend to pull grit from the blast pot or vessel and cause dust and grit
to eventually contaminate the compressed air control line. Where the first source originates from
 ambient and will contaminate the cylinder volume above the piston, the second source of
 contamination will reside below the piston. Both have the potential to bind the piston against the
 cylinder wall.
 [0181 Typically, in the prior art designs, the piston and piston seal do not function efficiently
 and fail quickly without lubrication. The lubrication is required to reduce the piston-to-cylinder
                                                   5

        WO 2013/066370                                                         PCTUS2012/000525
 friction and reduces the response time of the valve. While lubrication serves to minimize the
 wear of the piston seal which is required for proper actuation of the valve, its consistency is like
 paste when applied. In some cases oil or light fluids are used. Both types of lubrication have a
 tendency to attract dust which can contribute to the piston to cylinder binding.
 [019] Many prior art plunger sleeve designs utilize a straight cylindrical sleeve inserted within
 a straight cylindrical cavity that is slightly larger the outsider dimensions of the sleeve. Inherent
 to this design, grit will find its way and reside between the outside of the sleeve and inside of the
 valve body. This will significantly increase the force required to remove the sleeve from the
 body. Also, due to the straight cylinder and mating cavity, the grit continues to roll and slide
 which creates friction until the sleeve is completely removed. This makes disassembly relatively
 difficult.
 [020] Many of the prior art valves use variants of a tungsten carbide plunger fused or joined to
 a stainless shaft with bolt threads to fastened the piston. Generally the wear on these occur due
 to the sliding and rubbing of the plunger against the inside of the sleeve with abrasive grit
 between them. Consequently, the wear is mainly in this area. Generally, it has been observed
 that the stainless portion of the plunger is still in good condition. However, since it is fused to
 the tungsten carbide, the still new stainless is discarded along with the worn Tungsten.
 [0211 It is desirable to improve on the various prior art designs by incorporating design changes
 which facilitate maintenance and repair of the valve. As stated, the primary wear portions of the
 valve are the plunger and the sleeve. In many prior art valves, the entire plunger assembly must
 be removed and the valve completely disassembled in order to replace the worn components.
 Likewise, the sleeve can only be replaced by disassembling the entire valve.
 [022] It is desirable to provide a media control valve permitting more cost effective
 maintenance by reducing the replacement requirements for those components which are not
 subject to wear, to provide a more effective body gasket and seal system and to permit easier
.assembly and disassembly.
                                                     6

       WO 2013/066370                                                         PCT/US20121000525
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [023] The subject invention is directed to a media control valve with a valve body having a
media inlet and a media outlet and a plunger which is positioned within the valve body. The
plunger is connected to a metering control assembly in the bore of the valve body and can be
removed without disturbing the control assembly. A sleeve is positioned in the valve body
between the valve body and the plunger.
 [024] In one aspect of the invention, the media control valve includes a diaphragm which
eliminates the piston and piston seal. The diaphragm acts as a membrane that physically isolates
and seals the chambers above and below. The pistonless design means that that there is no piston
to slide and seal against the cylinder wall. This results in less sliding friction and eliminates one
less area where grit can bind the valve.        Dust and grit from ambient or a contaminated
compressed air line will not bind the valve. The breather vent becomes less critical. In addition,
less friction means more of the mechanical forces are available to open and close the valve
resulting in quicker, more efficient, and more reliable valve action. Also, the diaphragm designs
do not require lubrication, which speeds assembly time and also minimizes the environmental
impact from the chosen lubricant.
[025]   In another aspect of the invention, the spool sleeve design has all of the plunger seals and
bushings held within the sleeve. This allows removal of all of the seals along with the removal
of the sleeve. In some cases, not all but some of the seals are inside the sleeve, which is
consistent with one aspect of the invention. Once the spool sleeve is removed, the replacement
seals and bushings can be replaced and inspected with relative ease due to the accessibility at
both ends of the sleeve. Since each plunger seal is held within its own rigid cavity, held on three
sides and not stacked on top of another seal or loose component, proper alignment is better
assured during and after installation.
[026] It is an important feature of the valve of the subject invention that the rigid assembly
between components as is common in the prior art valves has been replaced with a floating
design with components being assembled using numerous resilient seals and spacers between
rigid members, permitting the assembly to self-center or self-position. This minimizes or even
                                                 7

        WO 2013/066370                                                        PCTUS2012/000525
 eliminates the tendency of various components to bind during operation, particularly as a result
 of normal operation and normal wear.         This also assures proper alignment of the various
 components by permitting relative movement between components during operation.                 The
 floating design of the subject invention also facilitates in maintenance and repair by permitting
 the assembly to be disassembled by relying on the relative ease in removing the resilient seals.
 [027]   Even in prior art designs having a single plunger seal, the spool design of the subject
 invention will allow for additional space to include additional plunger seals or wipers which will
 improve the life and versatility of these valves, as well.         Also, the addition of a wiper
 immediately above the tungsten carbide liner keeps all the grit between carbide-to-carbide
 surfaces, thus reducing sliding friction and preventing the accumulation of residual grit between
 the plunger and sleeve.
 (028] In yet another aspect of the invention, the composite sleeve may incorporate a soft
 urethane or equivalent material to liner or encapsulate a hard abrasion resistant material such as
tungsten carbide or hardened stainless steel. The softer thermoplastic liner will allow for easy
removal while the hard lining will provide longevity and durability.
 [029]   Revising the cavity to have a taper allows the gap relative to the sleeve to increase during
extraction or removal thus decreasing the bind and rolling and allow the sleeve to release easily.
In addition, a taper, at the same angle as the mating inside surface of the body, can be utilized.
This will further ease the release of the sleeve from the body.
 [030] The modular plunger design of the subject invention utilizes fasteners to fix the tungsten
carbide to the stainless. In this design, the tungsten slides over the stainless with three seals
between them and held in place with a bolt screwed into the stainless shaft. The tungsten liner
can be removed and replaced onto the stainless. This reduces the cost of the replacement part by
reusing the stainless plunger shaft.     In addition, the two o-rings and washer seals allow the
tungsten carbide to "float" and find its concentricity within the sleeve. Although the float is
small it prevents a bind due to misaligned or eccentric sleeve and plunger centerlines. The softer
                                                   8

      WO 2013/066370                                                        PCTUS2012/000525
sleeve liner such as urethane, as mentioned above, allows the harder sleeve liner to conform for
concentric alignment with the plunger centerline.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0311 Fig. 1 is a front view of a valve incorporating the features of the subject invention.
[032] Fig. 2 is a side view of the valve shown in Fig. 1.
[033] Fig. 3A is a sectional view taken along line 3-3 of Fig. 1, showing the valve in the closed
position.
[034] Fig. 3B is a sectional view taken along line 3-3 of Fig. 1, showing the valve in the fully
open position.
[035] Fig. 4A is a sectional view taken along line 4-4 of Fig. 2, showing the valve in the closed
position.
[036] Fig. 4B is a sectional view taken along line 4-4 of Fig. 2, showing the valve in the fully
open position.
[037] Fig. 5 is a view looking in the same direction as Fig. 3a, with the valve in the fully closed
position, and with additional component views showing the plunger assembly and the sleeve
assembly.
[038] Figs. 5A and 5B are fragmentary views take from Fig. 5, showing the plunger assembly
and the liner sleeve and liner assembly, respectively.
[039] Fig. 6 is a diagrammatic sectional view of the spool sleeve and liner design.
[040]   Fig. 7 is a diagrammatic sectional view, with angles exaggerated for clarity, showing the
tapered sleeve release.
[041] Fig. 8 is a diagrammatic sectional view showing the modular plunger design.
                                                9

      WO 2013/066370                                                       PCT/US20121000525
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[042] Referring initially to Figs. 1, 2, 3A, 313, 4A and 413, the valve assembly includes a valve
body 1 for housing the valve plunger assembly, the spool sleeve assembly and the lower
diaphragm plate Sb (see, for example Figs. 3A and 38), as will be explained with reference to
Figs. 5-8. The valve cap assembly 3 is secured to the body 1 and houses the diaphragm 4 (best
shown in Figs. 4A and 4B), upper diaphragm plate 5a and the metering knob assembly
terminating in the metering knob 14. The upper valve assembly, comprising the body 1, the cap
assembly 3, knob assembly including knob 14 and the internal components are typically secured
to the valve base 2 by a series of bolts or similar fasteners 18.       Typically, a washer 19 is
positioned between each bolt head and the valve body 1, as shown.
[043]   The pressurized indexing air or control fluid is introduced into port 40, as indexed or
metered by the position of the metering knob assembly terminating in metering knob 14.
Abrasive media is introduced into the valve at port 42. The abrasive media is released into the
main flow line 44 in the base 2 through the valve outlet 46 (see Figs. 3A and 3B).Port 40 is a
pneumatic signal port which would is controlled from a remote controlled valve.              The air
pressure and flow through port 40 will allow pneumatic pressure to exert mechanical force onto
the diaphragm and lower plate 5b to actuate and open the valve. How much the plunger is
allowed to travel is determined the position of the manually adjusted knob assembly 14, which
determines how much of the sleeve orifice open, thus controlling abrasive flow.
 [044] As stated, in one aspect of the invention, the media control valve includes a diaphragm 4
which eliminates the piston and piston seal. The diaphragm acts as a membrane that physically
isolates and seals the chambers above and below. The media control valve includes a body
assembly having a valve cap assembly 3 and a lower plunger body 1. A movable plunger
assembly comprising plunger 6 and control stem 30 are housed in the body for axial movement
along the substantially central axis of the body. Typically, the valve includes an air inlet port 40.
The flexible diaphragm 4 is positioned between the upper cap assembly 3 and the plunger body I
and is in communication with the port 40. The flexible membrane or diaphragm 4 is secured to
the body and the plunger stem 60 and is adapted for movement with the plunger assembly. In
                                                10

       WO 2013/066370                                                      PCTUS2012/000525
the preferred embodiment, the diaphragm 4 is circular in shape with its outer edge being
sandwiched between the upper and lower body portions I and 3.        The diaphragm has a central
hole through which the plunger stem 60 can pass and the diaphragm is secured to the plunger
stem 60 by sandwiching the diaphragm 4 between two mounting plates Sa and 5b.                  The
diaphragm 4 moves between the nested position of Figs. 3a, 3b and 5 and the metering position
of Figs. 4A, 4B in unison with the plunger 6, as will now be explained.
 [045] The valve is shown in the fully- closed position in Figs. 3A, 4A and 5. The valve is
shown in the fully open position in Figs. 3B and 4B. The valve metering system, consisting of
the plunger assembly 6, the metering knob assembly 14 is moved to selected positions between
the fully closed position and the fully open position by turning the knob assembly in the tapped
bore 32 in the valve cap assembly 3. When fully open, the knob assembly is extended outwardly
from the cap assembly 3, the spring 15 is fully compressed when compressed air enters through
the port 40, with the metering bolt or stem limiting the travel of the plunger, as shown in Figs.
3B and 4B. The media port 42 in the body 1, and in communication with the plunger assembly
6, is also fully open. When signal at port 40 is stopped, the spring 15 acts to push the plunger
assembly downward, as drawn, and the plunger closes media port 42, while the diaphragm
moves to the position shown in Fig. 4A.
 [046] One of the novel features of the subject invention is the diaphragm assembly comprising
the diaphragm 4 and the upper and lower diaphragm plates 5a and 5b. The diaphragm 4 includes
an outer flange 50 which is positioned between the outer flange 52 of the valve body I and the
outer flange 54 of the cap assembly 3. The diaphragm is held in assembly when the valve body
is secured to the cap. The diaphragm 4 is sandwiched between the upper and lower diaphragm
plates 5a and 5b, and secured on the stem 60 of the plunger 6 by a nut or similar fastener 16. The
metering knob assembly is rotated into and out of the valve cap. This will permit the plunger 6
to move upward against spring depending upon the metering position, when compressed air is
introduced into port 40 as a pneumatic control signal, as previously described, see Figs. 3B and
4B. When compressed air flow is stopped, the spring 15 forces the plunger down, closing the
port 42, see Figs. 3B and 4B. Port 40 is usually vented to the atmosphere to allow the spring to
push the diaphragm back.
                                               11

       WO 2013/066370                                                       PCTUS2012/000525
[047]    The diaphragm design eliminates the piston and piston seal. The diaphragm acts as a
membrane that physically isolates and seals the chambers above and below. The pistonless
design means that that there is not any piston to slide and seal against the cylinder wall. This
results in less sliding friction and eliminates one less area where grit can bind the valve.
Generally, dust and grit from ambient or a contaminated compressed air line will not bind the
valve. The breather vent becomes less critical. In addition, less friction means more of the
mechanical forces are available to open and close the valve resulting in a quicker, more efficient,
and more reliable valve action. Also, the diaphragm design does not require lubrication, which
speeds assembly time and also minimizes the environmental impact from the chosen lubricant.
[048] An additional novel feature of the invention is the spool sleeve design of the valve. The
spool sleeve has all of the plunger seals and bushings held within the sleeve. Specifically, and
with particular reference to Figs. 5, 5B, 6 and 7, the spool sleeve 11 is constructed of a relatively
soft material, such as stainless steel or even polyurethane. The hardened liner 12 may be made of
tungsten carbide or another suitably hardened material.
[049]    The sleeve 11 is adapted to be received in the central bore of the valve body 1, with the
plunger 6 positioned in the central bore in communication with the sleeve assembly. The sleeve
 11 is a substantially cylindrical member having an outer diameter adapted to be received in the
central bore and an inner diameter adapted to receive the liner 12. The liner 12 has an outer
diameter adapted to be received in the sleeve inner diameter and an inner diameter adapted to
receive the plunger 6. There is at least one removable liner seal 21(see Fig. 5B) between the
sleeve inner diameter and the liner outer diameter. In the preferred embodiment the liner seal 21
comprises the o-ring.      Also, as shown, it may be desirable to include multiple seals 21.
Typically, the sleeve liner includes a circumferential channel for receiving and seating each seal
21.
 [050] The outer diameter of the cylindrical spool 11 is tapered relative to the central bore of the
media control valve, shown exaggerated in Fig. 7. In the preferred embodiment, there is at least
one removable bore seal 22 (see Fig. 5B) positioned between the central bore of the body 1 and
the outer diameter of the spool 11. While shown as on the circumference of the spool 11 in the
                                                 12

       WO 2013/066370                                                       PCT/US20121000525
drawing, see Figs. 5, 5B and 7, it can also be placed at the top of the spool between the body I
and the spool.
 [051] In the preferred embodiment the bore seal 22 is an o-ring. The sleeve outer diameter
includes a circumferential channel for receiving and seating the o-ring (see Fig. 7). it should be
understood by those who are skilled in the art that seals other than an o-ring configuration can be
employed with equal performance capability. The sleeve II is of longer longitudinal length than
the liner 12, wherein the portion of the sleeve outside the liner is of an intermediate inner
diameter larger than the inner diameter of the liner but smaller than the inner diameter of the
sleeve. This allows the particles in the blast media to disengage and roll more freely instead of
being dragged, as with the prior art. As best shown in Fig. 5B, at least one circumferential seal
23a is positioned in the intermediate diameter portion and is adapted for contacting the plunger.
In the preferred embodiment there are multiple seals 23a, 23b and guide 24. Circumferential
channels may be provided in the intermediate diameter of the sleeve I I for receiving and seating
the seals 23a, 23b and guide 24. In the preferred embodiment the plunger seal 23a is oriented
"cup-up", opposite the two lower seals 23b which are oriented "cup-down" in order to provide
maximum sealing function in both directions.
[052] During use of the valve, the wear is primarily on the liner 12. In order to facilitate repair
and replacement, all of the seals between the sleeve and liner are located on the sleeve.
Specifically, 0-ring seals 21 are located on the sleeve near the top and bottom of the liner. As
best showing in Fig. 6, packing material, generally of a soft material such as polyurethane or the
like is postioned as a pack 25, and may include integral 0-rings 70, as shown. An internal wear
ring 24 is located on the ID of the sleeve, above the liner 12 and the pack 25 An internal plunger
seal 23a is also located on the ID of the sleeve and positioned above the internal wear ring 24.
[053] This configuration permits removal of all of the seals along with the removal of the
sleeve 11 and liner 12 from the valve body 1. Once the spool sleeve is removed, the replacement
seals and bushings can be replaced and inspected with relative ease due to the accessibility at
both ends of the sleeve. Since each plunger seal 23 and 70 is held within its own rigid cavity,
held on three sides and not stacked on top of another seal or loose component, proper alignment
is better assured during and after installation, as well as during use.
                                                  13

       WO 2013/066370                                                       PCTUS2012/000525
[054J On prior art single plunger seal designs, the new spool design allows for additional space
to include additional plunger seals or wipers which will improve the life and versatility of these
legacy valves. This could dramatically improve the legacy design and even existing installed
valves. The addition of the pack seals 23, or wiper seal, above and closer to the liner 12 keeps
grit from accumulating between carbide-to-carbide surfaces on the liner 12 and the plunger wear
sleeve 7 (see Figs. 5, 5A and 8), thus reducing sliding friction and minimizing one cause of
binding.
[055] Prior art designs, such as, by way of example, the configuration shown in U.S. Patent
No. 7,300,336, permit the fine grit to pass the wiper and be lodged between the plunger OD and
sleeve and roll instead of slide. Using the configuration of the subject invention it has been
found that a super hard grit such as aluminum oxide actually polishes the plunger which
improves plunger seal life and valve life.
[056] With reference to Figs. 5, SA, SB and 6, it should be noted that the configuration of the
subject invention permits the use of a soft urethane or equivalent material for the sleeve 11, and
while the liner 12 liner is made of a hard abrasion resistant material such as tungsten carbide or
hardened stainless steel. The softer thermoplastic material will allow for easy removal while the
hard liner will provide longevity and durability. Also, a softer sleeve liner such as urethane will
allow the harder sleeve liner to conform for concentric alignment with the plunger centerline.
[057] Although the urethane sleeve 11 is much easier to remove than the tungsten or stainless
steel sleeves, it is still difficult to remove when employed in prior art designs. In the subject
invention, and as specifically shown in Fig. 7, the body cavity 76 is modified to have a taper
(shown exaggerated for clarity). In practice, the taper is very slight, but permits the gap relative
to the sleeve to increase, thus reducing the bind and rolling and allow the sleeve to release easily.
In addition, a taper, at the same angle as the mating inside surface of the body, can be utilized.
This will further ease the release of the sleeve from the body. Specifically, the taper can be
provided on the ID of the body cavity, the OD of the sleeve, or both. Mated taper surfaces may
also be used, which will eliminate the gap when the sleeve is fully seated, but permit the same
beneficial results as the sleeve is withdrawn from the valve body.
                                                 14

       WO 2013/066370                                                        PCT/US20121000525
 [058] The valve assembly of the subject invention also includes a modular plunger assembly 6,
 as best shown in Figs. 5 and 8. As is typical, the plunger assembly 6 is axially movable along
 the central axis of the body. In the subject invention the plunger assembly includes a central core
 6a having an outer diameter and made of a first material, and a plunger sleeve 7 having an inner
 diameter of sufficient size to permit the sleeve to be placed in a surrounding relationship with the
plunger core. There is at least one removable seal 20 placed between the outer diameter of the
plunger core and the inner diameter of the plunger sleeve. In the example, there is a seal 20
placed at or near the top of the sleeve 7 and a second seal placed at or near the bottom of the
sleeve 20. The outer diameter of the plunger core and the inner diameter of the plunger sleeve
are sized such that the plunger sleeve can be moved relative to the plunger core without
interference. Typically, the plunger sleeve is constructed of a harder material than the plunger
core. It may be desirable that one of the mated diameters of the plunger sleeve and the plunger
core are tapered to provide additional clearance therebetween. In some cases, it may be desirable
that both the core and the sleeve be tapered. This facilitates axial movement between the plunger
sleeve and the plunger core in one axial direction, specifically for replacement of the sleeve on
the core during assembly and maintenance. It is also desirable to provide a channel in the
plunger core for receiving and seating each seal 20.
[059] The upper portion of the plunger core 6a is of a larger outer diameter than the lower
portion and is substantially similar to the outer diameter of the sleeve 7 which is placed over the
lower, lesser diameter of the plunger core. The top edge of the sleeve 7 is positioned to provide
a gap between the sleeve and the upper portion of the plunger core. A washer seal 8 is placed in
the gap. Typically, the seal 8 is a flexible, removable seal, such as, by way of example an o-ring
seal. The removable seal has an outer diameter which is no smaller than the larger outer
diameter of the plunger core.
[060] In the preferred embodiment, the modular plunger assembly 6 includes the core 6a and an
outer plunger sleeve 7. Typically, the sleeve 7 is made of a hardened material such as tungsten
carbide and the core 6a may be made of a much softer material, such as, by way of example,
stainless steel. The sleeve 7 is secured to and lines the core 6a. In the example, the sleeve 7 is
secured to the core 6a by means of a fastener such as the retaining washer 10 and a threaded
                                                  15

      WO 2013/066370                                                         PCT/US20121000525
fastener such as the screw 17. The washer seal 8 is provided at the junction of the top of the
sleeve and the core. Internal O-rings 20 are provided between the sleeve 7 and the core 6a.
[061]   In this configuration, the tungsten sleeve 7 is adapted to slide over the stainless core 6a
with three seals 20, 20 and 8 between them, held in place with a bolt or screw 17 and flexible or
soft retaining washer 10. The tungsten sleeve or liner 7 can be removed and replaced onto the
stainless core 6.    This will reduce the cost of the replacement part by reusing the stainless
plunger shaft and core. In addition, the two o-rings 20, 20, resilient seal S and flexible washer 10
allow the'sleeve 7 to "float" and find its concentricity within the sleeve. Although the float is
small it prevents a bind due to misaligned or eccentric sleeve and plunger centerlines.
[062]   While certain features and embodiments have been described in detail herein, it will be
understood that the invention encompasses all modifications and enhancements within the scope
and spirit of the following claims.
                                                16

                                       Claims
1. A media control valve of the type having a body, a plunger assembly of multiple
   components housed in the body with a plunger control valve cap assembly secured to
   the body for housing a control knob, including resilient seals between adjacent multiple
   components of the plunger assembly to permit relative movement therebetween.
2. A media control valve of the type having a body, a plunger assembly housed in the
   body with a plunger control valve cap assembly secured to the body for housing a
   control knob and control assembly, the media control valve further comprising: a
   flexible diaphragm positioned between the body and the valve cap assembly.
3. The media control valve of claim 2, the media control valve further including a plate
   assembly mounted to the plunger assembly for securing the diaphragm to the plunger
   assembly in a manner permitting the diaphragm to move with the plunger assembly.
4. The media control valve of claim 3, wherein the plate assembly comprises an upper
   plate and a lower plate and wherein the center of the diaphragm is sandwiched between
   the upper plate and lower plate.
5. The media control valve of claim 3, wherein the body is secured to the control valve
   cap assembly and wherein the perimeter of the diaphragm is sandwiched between the
   body and the plunger control valve cap assembly for securing the diaphragm in place
   when the media control valve is fully assembled.
6. A media control valve of the type having a body, a plunger assembly housed in the
   body with a plunger control valve cap assembly secured to the body for housing a
   control knob for limiting the movement of the plunger, the media control valve further
   comprising: a flexible diaphragm positioned between the body and the valve cap
   assembly, the valve cap assembly further including an adjustable knob assembly for
   controlling the movement limits of the plunger assembly, the media control valve
   further including a plate assembly mounted on the plunger assembly including an upper
   plate and a lower plate and wherein the center of the diaphragm is sandwiched between
   the upper plate and lower plate for securing the diaphragm to the plunger assembly in
   a manner permitting the diaphragm to move with the plunger assembly, and wherein
                                          17

    the body is secured to the plunger control valve cap assembly and wherein the perimeter
    of the diaphragm is sandwiched between the body and the plunger control valve cap
    assembly for securing the diaphragm in place when the media control valve is fully
    assembled.
7. A media control valve of the type having a body assembly, and a movable plunger
    housed in the body, the body having an control port, the valve further comprising: a
    flexible diaphragm positioned between the body and plunger and in communication
    with the control port, the flexible membrane and adapted for movement in response to
    flow of a control fluid through the control port.
8. The media control valve of claim 7, the body comprising a first housing section for a
    control knob assembly and a second housing section for housing the plunger assembly,
    wherein the diaphragm is sandwiched between the first housing section and the second
    housing section.
9. The media control valve of claim 8, wherein the control assembly is movable for
    controlling and limiting the movement of the plunger.
10. The media control valve of claim 9, further including a subassembly for securing the
    diaphragm to the plunger.
11. The media control valve of claim 10, wherein the subassembly comprises an upper plate
    and a lower plate, and wherein the center of the diaphragm is sandwiched between the
    upper plate and the lower plate.
12. A media control valve having a body for housing a movable plunger assembly, the body
    having a substantially central axis and the plunger assembly being axially movable
    along the central axis, the plunger assembly comprising:
        a. A central plunger core having an outer diameter and made of a first material;
        b. A plunger sleeve having an inner diameter of sufficient size to permit the sleeve
            to be placed in a surrounding relationship with the plunger core.
13. The media control valve of claim 12, further comprising at least one removable seal
    between the outer diameter of the plunger core and the inner diameter of the plunger
    sleeve.
                                            18

14. The media control valve of claim 12, wherein the outer diameter of the plunger core
    and the inner diameter of the plunger sleeve are sized such that the plunger sleeve can
    be moved relative to the plunger core without interference.
15. The media control valve of claim 12, wherein the plunger sleeve is constructed of a
    harder material than the plunger core.
16. The media control valve of claim 12, wherein one of said plunger sleeve and said
    plunger core are tapered to provide additional clearance therebetween.
17. The media control valve of claim 16, wherein the inner diameter of the plunger sleeve
    is tapered.
18. The media control valve of claim 1, wherein the outer diameter of the plunger core is
    tapered.
19. The media control valve of claim 12, wherein the plunger sleeve and plunger core are
    tapered to facilitate axial movement therebetween in one axial direction.
20. The media control valve of claim 12, wherein the plunger sleeve is tapered to facilitate
    axial movement between the plunger sleeve and the plunger core in one axial direction.
21. The media control valve of claim 12, wherein the plunger sleeve is tapered to facilitate
    axial movement between the plunger sleeve and the plunger core in one axial direction.
22. The media control valve of 13, wherein the seal comprising an o-ring seal between the
    inner diameter of the plunger sleeve and the outer diameter of the plunger core.
23. The media control valve of claim 22, wherein the plunger core includes a
    circumferential channel for receiving the o-ring seal.
24. The media control valve of claim 22, including a plurality of o-ring seals placed along
    the axis of the plunger core.
25. The media control valve of claim 12, the plunger core having an first portion having
    outer diameter of a first diameter and a second portion having a second outer diameter
                                            19

    which is smaller than the first diameter, the plunger sleeve being adapted to be placed
    over the smaller second outer diameter.
26. The media control valve of claim 25, the plunger sleeve including a top which is
    positioned to leave a gap between the top of the plunger sleeve and the outer diameter
    first portion of the plunger core, and a removable seal positioned in the gap.
27. The media control valve of claim 26, wherein the removable seal has an outer diameter
    which is no smaller than the first outer diameter of the plunger core.
28. A plunger assembly for a media control valve, comprising:
         a. An inner substantially cylindrical core made of a first material;
         b. An outer substantially cylindrical liner made of a second material;
         c. At least one removable seal between the inner core and the outer liner.
29. The plunger assembly of claim 28, wherein the inner cylindrical core has a stepped
    outer wall with a smaller portion adapted for receiving the liner and a larger portion
    having an outer diameter substantially the same as the outer diameter of the liner, with
    the liner having an axial length such that there is a gap between the larger portion of
    the core and to top edge of the liner, the plunger assembly further including a removable
    seal in the gap.
30. The plunger assembly of claim 29, wherein the seal has an outer diameter which is at
    least as large as the outer diameter of the larger portion of the plunger core.
31. A media control valve of the type having a body with a central bore and a spool
    positioned in the central bore, the media control valve comprising:
         a. A substantially cylindrical spool in the bore, having an outer diameter adapted
             to be received in the central bore and an inner diameter;
         b. A spool liner having an outer diameter adapted to be received in the spool inner
             diameter and an inner diameter adapted to receive the plunger;
         c. At least one removable liner seal between the spool inner diameter and the liner
             outer diameter.
                                              20

32. The media control valve of claim 31, wherein the liner seal comprises an o-ring.
33. The media control valve of claim 32, wherein the spool inner diameter includes a
    circumferential channel for receiving and seating the o-ring.
34. The media control valve of claim 31, wherein the outer diameter of the cylindrical spool
    is tapered relative to the central bore of the media control valve.
35. The media control valve of claim 31, further including at least one removable bore seal
    positioned between the central bore and the outer diameter of the spool.
36. The media control valve of claim 35, wherein the bore seal comprise an o-ring.
37. The media control valve of claim 36, wherein the sleeve outer diameter includes a
    circumferential channel for receiving and seating the o-ring.
38. The media control valve of claim 31, wherein the spool is made of a first material and
    the liner is made of a second material.
39. The media control valve of claim 38, wherein the spool is made of a material which is
    softer than the material of the liner.
40. The media control valve of claim 31, the spool of longer longitudinal length than the
    liner, wherein the portion of the spool outside the liner is of an intermediate inner
    diameter smaller than the outer diameter of the liner but larger than the inner diameter
    of the liner.
41. The media control valve of claim 40, further including at least one circumferential seal
    adapted for contacting the plunger.
42. The media control valve of 41, the valve further including a media inlet port in the body
    and in communication with the bore, the circumferential seal being positioned adjacent
    the port for mnimizing a wedging action from accumulated media grit.
                                             21

43. A sleeve assembly for a media control valve, the sleeve assembly adapted to be received
    in the central bore of the media control valve, the sleeve assembly comprising:
         a. A substantially cylindrical spool having an outer diameter adapted to be
             received in the central bore, and an inner diameter;
         b. A spool liner having an outer diameter adapted to be received in the spool inner
             diameter and an inner diameter adapted to receive the plunger;
         c. At least one removable liner seal between the spool inner diameter and the liner
             outer diameter.
44. The media control valve of claim 43, wherein the liner seal comprises an o-ring.
45. The media control valve of claim 44, wherein the sleeve inner diameter includes a
    circumferential channel for receiving and seating the o-ring.
46. The media control valve of claim 45, wherein the outer diameter of the cylindrical spool
    is tapered relative to the central bore of the media control valve.
47. The media control valve of claim 43, further including at least one removable bore seal
    positioned between the central bore and the outer diameter of the spool.
48. The media control valve of claim 47, wherein the bore seal comprise an o-ring.
49. The media control valve of claim 48, wherein the sleeve outer diameter includes a
    circumferential channel for receiving and seating the o-ring.
50. The media control valve of claim 43, wherein the spool is made of a first material and
    the liner is made of a second material.
51. The media control valve of claim 50, wherein the spool is made of a material which is
    softer than the material of the liner.
52. The media control valve of claim 43, the spool of longer longitudinal length than the
    liner, wherein the portion of the spool outside the liner is of an intermediate inner
    diameter smaller than the outer diameter of the liner but larger than the inner diameter
    of the liner.
                                             22

53. The media control valve of claim 52, further including at least one circumferential seal
    adapted for contacting the plunger.
54. The media control valve of claim 43, wherein the central bore is tapered relative to the
    outer wall of the sleeve.
55. The media control valve of claim 43, wherein the outer wall of the sleeve is tapered
    relative to the central bore.
56. The media control valve of claim 55, wherein the spool OD is smaller than the central
    bore.
57. The media control valve of claim 43, wherein one of said outer wall of the sleeve and
    said central bore is tapered to provide additional clearance therebetween.
58. The media control valve of claim 43, wherein the inner diameter of the bore is tapered.
59. The media control valve of claim 43, wherein the outer diameter of the sleeve is tapered.
60. The media control valve of claim 43, wherein the outer diameter of the sleeve and inner
    diameter of the bore are tapered to facilitate axial movement therebetween in one axial
    direction.
61. The media control valve of 43, further including an o-ring seal between the inner
    diameter of the bore and the outer diameter of the sleeve.
                                            23

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012333224, is current as of 2018-04-30 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012333224, is current as of 2018-04-30 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012333224, is current as of 2018-04-30 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012333224, is current as of 2018-04-30 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012333224, is current as of 2018-04-30 21:00 AEST

