 A caravan or a camper trailer (10) having a body (12) defining an interior
space, the interior space including a first region (42) having a floor (43) at
a first level, a second region having a floor (45) at a second level that is
higher than the first level, the caravan or camper trailer including a third
region (74) located at least partially below the second floor (45), wherein a
lowermost part of the second floor (45) is located 400mm or more above
a top part (23) of a wheel arch (18) of the caravan or camper trailer

        4/s
th 4d
         4 to 4 5
             FIGURE 7
    50
       -5
                    F3I
       FIGURE 8

CARAVAN OR CAMPER TRAILER
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]        The present invention relates to a caravan or a camper trailer.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]        Caravans and camper trailers are widely used in Australia. They typically comprise a
chassis carrying wheels, a drawbar and a body mounted on or to the chassis. Caravans and
camper trailers may have pop-tops that enable a roof section to be raised upwardly to provide
increased interior room. Caravans and camper trailers may also be provided with awnings and/or
tents that can be folded outwardly or expanded outwardly to provide additional room.
[0003]        It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common general
knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0004]        The present invention is directed to a caravan or a camper trailer, which may at least
provide the consumer with a useful or commercial choice.
[0005]        In a first aspect, the present invention provides a caravan or a camper trailer having a
body defining an interior space, the interior space including a first region having a floor at a first
level, a second region having a floor at a second level that is higher than the first level, the
caravan or camper trailer including a third region located at least partially below the second
floor, wherein a lowermost part of the second floor is located 400mm or more above a top part of
a wheel arch of the caravan or camper trailer.
[0006]        In some embodiments, the lowermost part of the second floor is located between
400mm and 1200mm above a top part of a wheel arch. Within this range, the lowermost part of
the second floor may be located at least 450mm above the top part of the wheel arch, or at least
500mm above the top part of the wheel arch, or at least 550mm above the top part of the wheel
arch, or at least 600mm above the top part of the wheel arch, or at least 650mm above the top
part of the wheel arch, or at least 670mm above the top part of the wheel arch. Within this range,
the second floor may be located at a height that is not more than 1200mm above the top part of
the wheel arch, or not more than 1150mm above the top part of the wheel arch, or not more than
1100mm above the top part of the wheel arch, or not more than 1050mm above the top part of

the wheel arch, or not more than 1000mm above the top part of the wheel arch, or not more than
950mm above the top part of the wheel arch, or not more than 900mm above the top part of the
wheel arch, or not more than 850mm above the top part of the wheel arch, , or not more than
800mm above the top part of the wheel arch, , or not more than 750mm above the top part of the
wheel arch.
[0007]        In a second aspect, the present invention provides a caravan or a camper trailer
having a body defining an interior space, the interior space including a first region having a floor
at a first level, a second region having a floor at a second level that is higher than the first level,
the caravan or camper trailer including a third region located at least partially below the second
floor, the third region having a floor, the second floor being at least 400mm above the third floor.
[0008]        In some embodiments, the second floor is located from 400mm to 1400mm above
the third floor. Within this range, the second floor may be at least 450mm above the third floor,
or at least 500mm above the third floor, or at least 500mm above the third floor, or at least
550mm above the third floor, or at least 600mm above the third floor, or at least 650mm above
the third floor, or at least 670mm above the third floor, or at least 700mm above the third floor.
Within that range, the second floor may be less than 1400mm above the third floor, or less than
1350mm above the third floor, or less than 1300mm above the third floor, or less than 1200mm
above the third floor, or less than 1150mm above the third floor, , or less than 1100mm above the
third floor, or less than 1050mm above the third floor, or less than 1000mm above the third floor,
or less than 950mm above the third floor, or less than 900mm above the third floor, or less than
850mm above the third floor, or less than 800mm above the third floor.
[0009]        In these embodiments, the third region may be used as a storage region.
Alternatively, the third region may be used as a sleeping region. In embodiments where the third
region is also used as a sleeping region, the third region provides an additional sleeping region.
Advantageously, the third region has a floor space that is sufficiently large to hold mattress for
one or more persons. In some embodiments, the floor space of the third region is sufficiently
large to hold a double bed-sized mattress. The third region may be accessed from outside the
caravan or camper van through an external door or hatch. The third region may also be accessed
from inside the caravan or camper van. This is useful in instances where it is raining and access
to the second region from inside the caravan or camper van obviates the need to go out in the
rain. In some embodiments, the access opening between the first region and the third region is
sufficiently large to enable a person to move wholly out of the first region into the third region
and vice versa.

[0010]        The caravan or camper trailer may include an internal wall extending from the first
floor to the second floor. The external wall may have an access opening to provide access to the
third region from the interior volume of the caravan or camper trailer. The access opening may
be provided with a door to enable the access opening to be selectively opened and closed. For
instance, it may be desirable to close the access opening when the caravan or camper trailer is
being moved so that items located within the third region do not spill into the first region of the
caravan or camper trailer. As mentioned above, the access opening may be sufficiently large to
enable a person to move wholly between the first region and the third region.
[0011]        In a third aspect, the present invention provides a caravan or a camper trailer having
a body defining an interior space, the interior space including a first region having a floor at a
first level, a second region having a floor at a second level that is higher than the first level, the
second floor being at least 800mm above the first floor.
[0012]        In some embodiments, the second floor is from 800mm to 1200mm above the first
floor, or from 900mm to 1100mm above the first floor or from 900 mm to 1000mm above the
first floor
[0013]        In a fourth aspect, the present invention provides a caravan or a camper trailer having
a body defining an interior space, the interior space including a first region having a floor at a
first level, a second region having a floor at a second level that is higher than the first level, a
kitchen region located in a space below the second floor, the kitchen region being accessible via
an external door or hatch, the external door or hatch being mounted to the body via a hinge that
enables the external door or hatch to move from a closed position to an open position by rotating
outwardly and upwardly such that the external door or hatch acts as a roof when in the open
position. In this aspect, the external door or hatch provides a degree of protection from the
weather or the elements to a person who is using the kitchen. Advantageously, this weather
protection is provided without having to erect any external awnings or tents.
[0014]        In a fifth aspect, the present invention provides a caravan or camper trailer having a
body defining an interior space, the interior space including a first region having a floor at a first
level, a second region having a floor at a second level that is higher than the first level, a kitchen
region located in a space below the second floor, the kitchen region being accessible via an
external door or hatch, the kitchen region including a cooker and a sink, the cooker and the sink
being mounted in a fixed position. In this aspect, the kitchen fittings, in being mounted in a fixed
position, can be securely mounted within the caravan or camper trailer. This also obviates the
need to provide expensive and/or complex sliding mechanisms that would otherwise be required

to access the kitchen fittings.
[0015]        In a sixth aspect, the present invention provides a caravan or camper trailer having a
body defining an interior space, the interior space including a first region having a floor at a first
level, a second region having a floor at a second level that is higher than the first level, the
caravan or camper trailer including a third region located at least partially below the second
floor, the caravan or camper trailer including a chassis comprising a plurality of chassis rails and
services comprising one or more of water tank(s)s, pump(s), pipes, a battery, wiring and waste
receiving tank(s), the services being located entirely above a lowermost part of the chassis rails.
[0016]        In this aspect of the invention, the services are more protected from damage.
[0017]        In a seventh aspect, the present invention provides a caravan or camper trailer having
a body defining an interior space, the interior space including a first region having a floor at a
first level, a second region having a floor at a second level that is higher than the first level, the
caravan or camper trailer including a third region located at least partially below the second
floor, a pop top comprising a rigid roof movable between a retracted position and an extended
position, wherein a travel height of the caravan or camper trailer is not more than 2.0 m to the
top of the rigid roof of the pop top (excluding hatches or accessories located on the roof).
[0018]        In the seventh aspect, the travel height is measured with the pop-up in the retracted
position.
[0019]        In an eighth aspect, the present invention provides a caravan or a camper trailer
having a body defining an interior space, the interior space including a first region having a floor
at a first level, a second region having a floor at a second level that is higher than the first level,
the caravan or camper trailer including a third region located at least partially below the second
floor, the third region having a floor, the second floor being at least 400mm above the third floor,
the second floor being at least 800mm above the first floor.
[0020]        In some embodiments of the present invention, the third region is accessible through
an external door or hatch. In other embodiments, the third region is accessible from an interior
volume of the caravan or camper trailer. In other embodiments, the third region is accessible
through both an external door or hatch and from interior volume of the caravan or camper trailer.
[0021]        In embodiments of the present invention, the second region provides a region in
which a bed can be located. The bed may comprise a mattress for one or more persons. In some
embodiments, the bed may comprise a double bed mattress or a queen bed mattress.

[0022]       In some embodiments, the caravan or camper trailer has a pop-top which allows a
roof of the body to be raised and lowered. When it is desired to stop for the night, the pop-top
allows the roof to be raised to provide increased interior volume by virtue of the raised roof
height. When it is decided to travel, the pop-top may be lowered to provide a lower profile
during driving.
[0023]       In some embodiments, the first region may be provided with an interior cupboard or
storage region. In other embodiments, the first region may be provided with a refrigerator. In yet
other embodiments, the first region may be provided with a dining area, such as a dinette, or a
shower and/or toilet module combination.
[0024]       The caravan or camper trailer may also be provided with one or more fold out seats
to enable one or more people to sit in the first region. The one or more fold out seats may be
mounted to an interior wall extending between the first floor and the second floor. The one or
more fold out seats may comprise one or more seats that are hingedly mounted to the interior
wall.
[0025]       In embodiments where the caravan or camper trailer includes an external kitchen, the
external kitchen may include a cooker and sink. The external kitchen may optionally include a
refrigerator. The external kitchen may also include bench space next to the cooker or sink. By
"external kitchen" is meant that the kitchen is accessed from a region that is external to the
caravan or camper trailer. It will be appreciated that the kitchen is located within the body of the
caravan or camper trailer but that access to the kitchen is achieved from outside the caravan or
camper trailer.
[0026]       The kitchen is accessed through an opening in an external wall of the body of the
caravan or camper trailer. Desirably, in some embodiments, the opening is provided with a door
or a flap that can be used to close the opening. The door or flap may be opened to allow access to
the kitchen. The door or flap is desirably hinged along an upper edge thereof so that the door or
flap may rotate outwardly and upwardly to open access to the kitchen. In this manner, the door or
flap provides cover to a person standing below the door or flap and using the kitchen facilities.
This provides a degree of protection from the weather without the requirement to extend a
separate awning.
[0027]       The second region is suitably used as a sleeping space. The second region may be
provided with a bed, such as a queen size bed.
[0028]       The caravan or camper trailer will, in common with all caravans and camper trailers,

be provided with suspension, wheels and a drawbar so that the caravan or camper trailer may be
towed by a tow vehicle. In most embodiments, the caravan or camper trailer will also be
provided with a chassis to which the body is mounted. The chassis may comprise a plurality of
chassis rails. The chassis rails may be welded or bolted together. In some embodiments, the body
may form part of a monocoque chassis. The caravan or camper trailer will also typically be
provided with a jockey wheel, and electrical system and water storage.
[0029]       Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[0030]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0031]       Various embodiments of the invention will be described with reference to the
following drawings, in which:
[0032]       Figure 1 shows a side view of a caravan or camper trailer in accordance with one
embodiment of the present invention;
[0033]       Figure 2 shows a side view of the caravan or camper trailer shown in figure 1 but
with the pop-top raised;
[0034]       Figure 3 shows a front view of the caravan or camper trailer shown in figure 1;
[0035]       Figure 4 shows a rear view of view of an embodiment of the caravan or camper
trailer shown in figure 1;
[0036]       Figure 5 shows a rear view of the caravan or camper trailer shown in figure 4 but
with the pop-top raised;
[0037]       Figure 6 shows a rear view of another embodiment of a caravan or camper trailer as
shown in figure 1;
[0038]       Figure 7 shows a side view of the caravan for camper trailer shown in figure 1, but
with some of the interior detailing shown in dashed outline;
[0039]       Figure 8 shows a plan view of one possible interior layout of a caravan or camper

trailer in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. In this figure, some
details that would otherwise be hidden are shown in dashed outline;
[0040]        Figure 9 shows a plan view of another possible interior layout of a caravan or camper
trailer in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. In this figure, some
details that would otherwise be hidden are shown in dashed outline;
[0041]        Figure 10 shows a plan view of another possible interior layout of a caravan or
camper trailer in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. In this figure,
some details that would otherwise be hidden are shown in dashed outline;
[0042]        Figure 11 shows a plan view of another possible interior layout of a caravan or
camper trailer in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. In this figure,
some details that would otherwise be hidden are shown in dashed outline;
[0043]        Figure 12 shows a plan view of another possible interior layout of a caravan or
camper trailer in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. In this figure,
some details that would otherwise be hidden are shown in dashed outline;
[0044]        Figure 13 shows a plan view of another possible interior layout of a caravan or
camper trailer in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. In this figure,
some details that would otherwise be hidden are shown in dashed outline;
[0045]        Figure 14 shows a rear view of one embodiment of the caravan or camper trailer in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention; and
[0046]        Figure 15 shows a rear view of another embodiment of a caravan or camper trailer in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0047]        It will be appreciated that drawings have been provided for the purpose of illustrating
preferred embodiments of the present invention. Therefore, it will be understood that the present
invention should not be considered to be limited solely to the features are shown in the attached
drawings.
[0048]        Figures 1 and 2 show side views of a caravan or camper trailer in accordance with
one embodiment of the present invention. For brevity of description, the term "camper trailer"
will be used throughout the remainder of this specification. It will be understood that the terms

"caravan" and "camper trailer" are being used throughout this specification in the context of
referring to portable accommodation units that can be towed by a tow vehicle, such as a car or a
four-wheel-drive vehicle or a truck.
[0049]       The camper trailer 10 shown in figures 1 and 2 comprises a chassis that carries a
body 12. The camper trailer 10 also includes wheels 14 and a drawbar 16. The drawbar 16
connects to a tow hitch of a tow vehicle. The wheels 14 and drawbar 16 are of conventional
construction and need not be described further. The chassis may comprise a plurality of chassis
rails joined together. One of chassis rails is shown at 17. The camper trailer 10 is also provided
with wheel arches, one which is shown at 18 in figure 1.
[0050]       The body 12 includes sidewalls, a rear wall, front walls and a roof. The sidewalls,
rear walls, front walls and roof each comprise rigid panels. The roof is denoted by reference
numeral 18. The roof 18 forms part of a pop-top roof. Pop-tops are well-known in this art and the
pop top used in the camper trailer of the present invention may be of conventional construction.
Figure 1 shows the roof 18 in its lowered position and figure 2 shows the roof 18 in the raised
position. In the raised position, extendable sidewalls 22 extend between the roof 18 and the
remainder of the body 12. The extendable sidewalls 22 may be made from a fabric material, such
as canvas, or may be made from a plastic material.
[0051]       The body 12 includes a side wall 24. The side wall 24 has an opening to allow access
to an interior volume of the camper trailer 10, which interior volume provides the living space
inside the camper trailer 10. A side door 26 is hingedly mounted such that it can be opened to
provide access to the interior volume of the camper trailer. Side door 26 can also be closed when
required.
[0052]       The body 12 also includes a front boot that can be accessed by way of doors or
hatches 28, 30. The front boot may be used as a storage area.
[0053]       Figure 3 shows a front view of the camper trailer 12 shown in figure 1. Figure 4
shows a rear view of one embodiment of the camper trailer 10 shown in figure 1. As can be seen
from figure 4, two spare wheels 32, 34 are mounted to the rear of the camper trailer. Figure 5
shows the roof 18 of the pop-top being raised. In figure 3, a part 21 of the draw bar can be seen.
The draw bar is positioned below the chassis rails.
[0054]       Figure 6 shows a rear view of and an alternative embodiment of the camper trailer
shown in figure 1. In figure 6, a spare wheel 34 and a pair of jerry cans 36 are mounted to the
rear of the camper trailer 10.

[0055]        Both the chassis and the body 12 of the camper trailer 10 may be constructed in
accordance with conventional materials and construction techniques used in the manufacture of
caravans and camper trailers. For example, the body may be made from a tubular steel frame
having aluminium composite side panelling. The walls and roof may be insulated. The interior
volume of the body may be provided with plywood flooring or flooring made from other sheet
material. It will be appreciated that other materials may be used in the construction of the camper
trailer 10.
[0056]        Returning now to figures 1 and 2, the side wall 24 has an opening that is covered by
an exterior flap 38 (the exterior flap 38 may be considered to be a door or a cover that can be
used to open and close the underlying opening). The exterior flap 38 is hinged along its top edge
40 such that it can be moved from a closed position to an open position by rotating the cover
upwardly and outwardly (see figure 14 in this regard).
[0057]        Turning now to figure 7, which shows a side view of the camper trailer shown in
figure 1 but with some of the interior detailing shown in dashed outline and some of the exterior
features (such as the side door 26) being omitted for clarity, the camper trailer 10 has an interior
volume that includes a first region 42 and a second region 44. The first region 42 has a first floor
43 that it is located relatively close to the lower part of the body 12. The second region 44 has a
second floor 45 that is located at a level that is higher than the level of the first floor 43. In some
embodiments, the second floor 45 is located from 800 mm to 1200 mm above the first floor, or
from 900 mm to 1100 mm above the first floor or from 900 mm to 1000 mm above the first
floor. In the embodiment shown in figure 7, a queen size bed or other size mattress sits on
second floor 45 and the second region 44 is used as a sleeping space in the camper trailer 10. In
figure 7, the pop top has been lowered and therefore there is only a small space between the top
of the queen size bed and the roof 18. However, when the pop top is raised, the roof 18 is located
at a significantly higher level and this provides more than enough space to allow a person or
persons to sleep on the queen bed located in the second region 44.
[0058]        Providing the camper trailer with a first region having a relatively low floor level and
a second region having a relatively high floor level provides a number of advantages. Initially,
access to the first region 42 is provided through the side door 26 (omitted from figure 7 for
clarity). As the first floor 43 is positioned relatively closer to the ground level, egress through the
side door 26 into the first region 42 is relatively simple. The camper trailer 10 may be provided
with a set of foldout stairs (not shown, but which may be of conventional construction) to
facilitate entry through the side door 26. Further, provision of a second floor 45 at a relatively

high level provides a relatively large space underneath the second floor 45. This space may be
used to provide a kitchen space and additional storage or a second sleeping space. Each of these
options will be described in further detail hereunder.
[0059]       The interior volume of the body 12 also has an inner wall 46 that extends essentially
vertically between the first floor 43 and the second floor 45. The inner wall 46 may be provided
with a hatch or an opening that allows access from the interior volume of the body 12 to at least
some of the space below second floor 45. In this way, a person may access at least some of the
space underneath the second floor 45 without having to go outside the camper trailer.
[0060]       The first region 42 may also be provided with an interior storage region/cupboard 48.
The interior storage region/cupboard 48 may be provided with an optional refrigerator 50. This is
shown more clearly in figure 8. In this embodiment, the first region 42 is also provided with an
optional toilet 52. The toilet 52 may be positioned within an appropriate enclosure for privacy
reasons. The toilet enclosure may be provided with a door for access. The toilet enclosure may
also be provided with an automatic odour eliminator.
[0061]       Figure 8 also shows further details of one possible embodiment of the camper trailer
in accordance with the present invention. In figure 8, the space underneath the second floor 45
may be divided into a kitchen space (or kitchen volume) 54 and a storage space (or storage
volume) 56. The kitchen space 54 may be defined at least in part by an inner wall 58, part of the
inner wall 46, part of the real wall 59 and exterior flap 38. The kitchen space 54 is provided with
a cooker and sink 60. The cooker and sink 60 are mounted in a fixed location in the kitchen
space 54.
[0062]       The storage space 56 underneath the second floor 45 is defined by part of inner wall
46, the inner wall 58, part of rear wall 59 and an exterior flap 62. Exterior flap 62 is mounted to
side wall 64 of body 12 in a manner that is similar to that of exterior flap 38. The exterior flap 62
can be used to open and close an opening in the side wall 64 of the body 12 that allows access to
the storage space 56 from the outside or exterior of the camper trailer 10. Advantageously, the
storage space 56 may also be accessible from the first region 42. For example, an opening may
be provided in inner wall 46, with the opening, for example, being located near the location
shown by reference numeral 66 in figure 8.
[0063]       The kitchen space 54 is separated from the storage space 56 by the inner wall 58.
This prevents cooking smells from entering directly into the storage space 56 from the kitchen
space 54. It also minimises the risk of items stored in storage space 56 catching fire when meals

                                                    I I
are being cooked in the kitchen space 54.
[0064]       In the embodiment shown in figure 8, the camper trailer is also provided with fold
down steps 68, 70. The fold down steps may comprise metal plates that are hingedly mounted to
the inner wall 46. The fold down steps provide for ease of access to the second floor 45. The fold
down steps may also be used as seats in the first region 42. Figure 8 also shows the front boot
storage 72.
[0065]       The storage space 56 defines a third region within the interior volume of the body 12.
The storage space 56 has a floor 74 that is at a different level to the second floor 45. As can best
be seen in figure 7, the floor 74 is also a different level to the first floor 43. However, it will be
realised that, in some embodiments, the third floor 74 may be at the same level as the first floor
43.
[0066]       In some embodiments, the second floor is located from 400mm to 1400mm above
the third floor. In the embodiment shown in figure 7, the second floor may be located between
550 mm and 1000 mm above the third floor. In this specific embodiment, the second floor is
located approximately 670 mm above the third floor. This spacing provides for convenient
access through an external opening into the third region, it being appreciated that a lower spacing
between the second floor and the third floor will lower the height of that opening, thereby
adversely affecting access through the external opening.
[0067]       As can also be seen from figure 7, the wheel arch 18 has a top part 23. The distance
between the top part of the wheel arch and the bottom of the second floor 45 may be between
400 mm and 1200 mm, or between 500 mm and 1000 mm, or between 600 mm and 1000 mm. In
some embodiments, the distance may be approximately 720 to 800 mm. Again, this distance
allows for good access to the third region through the external or internal opening.
[0068]       Figure 9 shows a further alternative layout of the interior of the camper trailer 10.
Where the features shown in figure 9 are common with the features shown in figure 8, like
reference numerals will be used to denote those features and additional description of those
common features will not be provided. In the embodiment shown in figure 9, the first region 42
is provided with an interior shower 76. The camper trailer 10 may be provided with a water
supply system that supplies water to the interior shower 76.
[0069]       In the embodiment shown in figures 8 and 9, the storage space 56 may be divided
into storage space 57 that is accessible from the first region 42 and storage space 59 that is
accessible via external flap 62. Appropriate walls may delineate storage space 57 from storage

                                                   IC
space 59. In other embodiments, the storage space 56 may comprise a single large storage space.
[0070]       Figure 10 shows a further alternative layout of the interior of the camper trailer 10.
Where the features shown in figure 10 are common with the features shown in figure 8, like
reference numerals will be used to denote those features and additional description of those
common features will not be provided. In the embodiment shown in figure 10, the first region 42
is provided with a toilet 52. The toilet is located underneath a seat that may form part of a
dinette. The first region 42 is also provided with a dinette 78 that comprises a small table 79
surrounded by seats 80 and 81. The toilet 52 is positioned under seat 81. Advantageously, seat 81
may be folded upwardly to provide access to the toilet. When seat 81 is folded downwardly so
that it can function as a seat, the seat 81 advantageously seals off the toilet.
[0071]       The camper trailer 10 shown in figure 10 also includes an external shower tent 82.
The external shower tent 82 can be folded out when required. The camper trailer 10 shown in
figure 10 also includes a refrigerator 83 that is located in the kitchen space 54. In this
embodiment, the inner wall 58 does not extend to the inner wall 46, in order to provide
additional room for the refrigerator 83.
[0072]       Figure 11 shown a further alternative layout of the interior of the camper trailer 10.
Where the features shown in figure 11 are common with the features shown in figures 8 and 10,
like reference numerals will be used to denote those features and additional description of those
common features will not be provided. The embodiment shown in figure 11 is very similar to the
embodiment shown in figure 8 except that the storage space 56 shown in figure 8 is a sleeping
space 84 in the embodiment shown in figure 11. In this regard, the sleeping space 84 may be
provided with a double bed mattress. The sleeping space 84 may be accessible from the interior
living space of the camper trailer tent and/or it may be accessible through exterior flap 62.
[0073]       Figure 12 shown a further alternative layout of the interior of the camper trailer 10.
The layout of figure 12 is very similar to the layout of figure 9. Where the features shown in
figure 12 are common with the features shown in figure 9, like reference numerals will be used
to denote those features and additional description of those common features will not be
provided. The embodiment shown in figure 12 has a sleeping space 86 instead of storage space
56 as shown in figure 9. Again, the sleeping space 86 may be provided with a double bed
mattress. The sleeping space 86 may be accessible from the interior living space of the camper
trailer and/or it may be accessible from the exterior of the camper trailer via external flap 62.
[0074]       Figure 13 shows a further alternative layout of the camper trailer 10 in accordance

                                                   I I.,
with another embodiment of the present invention. The layout shown in figure 13 includes a first
region 42 that has a similar layout to the first region 42 shown in figure 10. The layout shown in
figure 13 also includes a sleeping space 88 instead of the storage space 56 shown in figure 10.
The refrigerator 83 of figure 10 is also moved to the position shown at 83A in figure 13. This
allows inner wall 58 to continue essentially as a straight wall, which provides additional space
for the double bed in the sleeping space 88.
[0075]        Figures 14 and 15 show rear views of the camper trailer 10. In figure 14, the kitchen
space 54 can be clearly seen. Similarly, the sleeping space 84 can clearly be seen. Double bed 85
is also shown in sleeping space 84. Similarly, standard queen size bed 90 is shown in the second
region 44. Figure 14 also shows how the external flaps 38 and 62 can fold upwardly and
outwardly in order to open the access openings that allow access from the outside of the camper
trailer to the kitchen space 54 in the sleeping space 84, respectively. As can be clearly seen in
figure 14, when the external flaps 38, 62 are opened, they effectively form a roof above a person
standing next to the side of the camper trailer. This provides a degree of weather protection to
persons standing underneath the exterior flaps 38, 62 without the requirement to extend an
awning or a tent.
[0076]        Figure 14 also shows an optional awning 92 being extended over one side of the
camper trailer and an optional tent 94 being opened out from the other side of the camper trailer.
The construction and operation of the awning 92 and tent 94 can be entirely conventional and
further description of the awning and tent need not be provided.
[0077]        Figure 15 shows an alternative arrangement in which the sleeping space 84 of figure
14 is instead a storage space 56. The level of the floor 96 of the storage space 56 can clearly be
seen in figure 15. The second floor 45 is also shown in figure 15 for comparison purposes. The
storage space 56 has a height that is set by the space between floor 45 and floor 96. In some
embodiments, the storage space may have a volume of greater than 2.0 m3 .
[0078]        Returning now to figure 7, a space 97 is positioned below the third floor 74. This
space 97 may hold a number of services for use in the camper trailer. For example, the space 97
may hold a water tank 98 and associated piping and pumps (not shown). The space 97 may also
hold one or more batteries, electrical switchgear and wiring and a waste receptacle tank.
Advantageously, none of the services extend below a lowermost part of the chassis rails. In this
manner, the services are somewhat protected from damage during travel. Further, the underbody
of the camper trailer presents a very clean appearance, with typically only suspension
components and wheels extending below the lowermost chassis rails. To further improve

protection, a lower floor 99 may be provided to define the lowermost surface of the space 97.
The lower floor 99 may be made from sheet metal or other material.
[0079]         The caravan or camper trailer of preferred embodiments of the present invention
allows for a compact vehicle that is easy to tow and move around whilst also providing for a
comfortable sleeping area underneath the pop-top and a good-sized kitchen that can be accessed
externally. Further, either a significantly large additional storage area or a second sleeping area is
provided in the space located partly under the sleeping area provided by the second region of the
inner volume of the camper trailer. This space may be sufficiently large to allow sleeping on a
double bed located in the second sleeping area. Access to the inner storage volume or the second
sleeping area can be through an external opening in the side wall of the camper trailer and/or
through an opening that is accessed from the first region of the inner volume of the camper
trailer (i.e. access can also be from the living space of the caravan and/or camper trailer). The
kitchen fittings are advantageously mounted in a fixed position to thereby avoid the necessity of
having the kitchen fittings fitted to a sliding arrangement, which can be expensive, complex and
prone to breakage.
[0080]         In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does not
exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[0081]         Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[0082]         In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is not
limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any
of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any)
appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.

CLAIMS
1.      A caravan or a camper trailer having a body defining an interior space, the interior space
including a first region having a floor at a first level, a second region having a floor at a second
level that is higher than the first level, the caravan or camper trailer including a third region
located at least partially below the second floor, wherein a lowermost part of the second floor is
located 400mm or more above a top part of a wheel arch of the caravan or camper trailer
2.      A caravan or a camper trailer having a body defining an interior space, the interior space
including a first region having a floor at a first level, a second region having a floor at a second
level that is higher than the first level, the caravan or camper trailer including a third region
located at least partially below the second floor, the third region having a floor, the second floor
being at least 400mm above the third floor, the second floor being at least 800mm above the first
floor.
3.      A caravan or a camper trailer having a body defining an interior space, the interior space
including a first region having a floor at a first level, a second region having a floor at a second
level that is higher than the first level, the second floor being at least 800mm above the first
floor.
4.      A caravan or a camper trailer having a body defining an interior space, the interior space
including a first region having a floor at a first level, a second region having a floor at a second
level that is higher than the first level, a kitchen region located in a space below the second floor,
the kitchen region being accessible via an external door or hatch, the external door or hatch being
mounted to the body via a hinge that enables the external door or hatch to move from a closed
position to an open position by rotating outwardly and upwardly such that the external door or
hatch acts as a roof when in the open position.
5.      A caravan or camper trailer having a body defining an interior space, the interior space
including a first region having a floor at a first level, a second region having a floor at a second
level that is higher than the first level, a kitchen region located in a space below the second floor,
the kitchen region being accessible via an external door or hatch, the kitchen region including a
cooker and a sink, the cooker and the sink being mounted in a fixed position.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
