1001946178
      ABSTRACT
      A method of releasing a packer or bridge plug is disclosed. The method comprises delivering
      a telescoping grip tool in a first configuration to engage the packer or bridge plug at a first
      location; equalizing pressure across the set packer or bridge plug with movement of said
      telescoping grip tool; placing said telescoping grip tool in a second configuration after said
      equalizing; engaging a second location on said packer or bridge plug with said telescoping
      grip tool in said second configuration; releasing said packer or bridge plug after said
      equalizing with movement of said telescoping grip tool in said second configuration;
      performing said equalizing and said releasing with a tensile pull on said telescoping grip tool.

1001946178
                                                    1
                  PACKER OR BRIDGE PLUG WITH SEQUENTIAL EQUALIZATION
                                      THEN RELEASE MOVEMENTS
       Inventors: Jeffery S, Pray; Antonio C. Ruffo; David S. Bishop; Kent S. Meyer and Graeme
       M. Kelbie
       RELATED APPLICATIONS
       [0001A]     This application is a divisional of Australian patent application no. 2015360606,
      the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
       [00011     The field of this invention is sequential equalization and then packer or bridge
      plug release with discrete mechanisms that are sequentially accessed with extension of the
      equalization and release tool and more particularly with a feature allowing forcible retraction
      of a lower slip cone from the lower slips should the slips fail to release with operation of the
      release mechanism.
      BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
      [0002]      Packers and bridge plugs serve as wellbore isolation devices. The main difference
     is that bridge plugs have no passage through a mandrel and are an absolute barrier, while
     packers have a mandrel passage and are usually associated with a valve to control flow
     between zones that are isolated from each other when the packer is set. In either case, these
     devices when set will have some differential pressure across them and the standard procedure
     for safe operation is to equalize the pressure across the packer or bridge plug first before
     release of the slip and seal assembly of the packer or bridge plug.
     [0003]       Very old designs involved a single movement of a mechanism to accomplish both
     tasks. This movement was in a single direction where the initial movement first equalized and
     continued movement in the same direction then released the slips and seal elements of the
    packer or plug. One potential problem with such a design is if the slips and seal of the packer
    or plug are released before the equalization has fully finished there could be a large enough
    force left on the packer to send it moving in a direction toward the surface which could send
    the tubular string attached to such packer moving out of the hole and create a dangerous
    condition. Accordingly subsequent designs sought to make the equalizing step discrete from
    the release step by using two discrete mechanisms and a grip tool that is initially blocked
    from grabbing the release mechanism as it initially grabs the equalizing mechanism by a
    plurality of dogs that act as travel stops. After the grip tool engages the equalizing mechanism
    and picks it up to equalize, a recess is presented opposite the dogs acting as a travel stop so

1001946178
                                                    2
      that on a subsequent jarring down movement after equalization, the release mechanism is
      gripped because the dogs acting as a travel stop have gone into the recess so that a subsequent
      jarring up motion then releases the slips and sealing element of the packer. This system is
      described in detail in Bishop US 8322413. Some problems inherent to this design are that
      wellbore debris could deposit near the dogs or their associated recess so that the packer
      release mechanism could not be gripped by the grip tool making release of the packer
      difficult if not impossible and dictating a milling operation for removal of the packer.
      Another issue with the Bishop '413 design was that once the lock ring below the slips was
      released to allow the packer to extend in a downhole direction for retraction of the upper and
      lower slips and sealing element there was still an issue as attempts were made to bring up the
      packer of the slips either not releasing their grip on the surrounding tubular or the slip cone
      not extending far enough away from the slips or getting pushed back under the slips as the
      packer was moved uphole causing the packer to get stuck.
      [00041      To address these issues a grip tool was designed that eliminates the need for the
      dogs that act as a travel stop by having a grip tool that is initially only capable of reaching the
      equalizing mechanism. After equalization a further force applied in the same direction as for
      the equalizing results in a reconfiguration of the grip tool and locking the grip tool in the
      reconfigured position. In the locked reconfigured position, the grip tool is capable of
      engaging with the packer or plug release mechanism with an applied force. After such
      latching the applied force direction is reversed and the tool is released with an undermining
      of the ratchet lock used initially to hold the set position. In the event of a failure to release
     just relying on the stored potential energy of the set packer element an option is provided to
      re-engage the lower ratchet lock and transfer a downhole force to the lower slip cone to push
      the lower slip cone downhole from under the slips so as to provide another opportunity to get
      the slips and packer seal to release. An emergency release is provided to be able to remove
      the grip tool if the equalizing and release mechanisms fail to operate so that the grip tool and
      associated wireline can be removed from the borehole before fishing is attempted.
      [0005       These and other features will be more readily apparent to those skilled in the art
      from a review of the description of the preferred embodiment and the associated drawings
      while keeping in mind that the full scope of the inventions described herein are to be
      determined by the appended claims.
      [0006]      Retractable slips are illustrated in US4813486 while retrievable bridge plugs and
      associated running tools are discussed in US 5366010. Also relevant to telescoping tools are
     US 6349770; completion method with telescoping perforation and fracturing tool US
      7604055; Downhole telescoping tool with radially expandable members WO 2011028812
      and method and apparatus for accommodating telescoping action US 3354950.

1001946178
                                                    3
      [0006A]     Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
      suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction
      or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded as relevant,
      and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
      SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
      [0006B]      In an aspect, the present invention provides a method of releasing a packer or
      bridge plug. The method comprising delivering a telescoping grip tool in a first configuration
      to engage the packer or bridge plug at a first location; equalizing pressure across the set
      packer or bridge plug with movement of said telescoping grip tool; placing said telescoping
      grip tool in a second configuration after said equalizing; engaging a second location on said
      packer or bridge plug with said telescoping grip tool in said second configuration; releasing
      said packer or bridge plug after said equalizing with movement of said telescoping grip tool
      in said second configuration; and performing said equalizing and said releasing with a tensile
      pull on said telescoping grip tool.
       [0007]     Also disclosed herein is a tool equalizes a packer or bridge plug before it can
      release the slips and sealing element of the packer or bridge plug with a reconfigurable grip
      tool. In one configuration the grip tool is latched only into the equalizing mechanism for the
      packer or bridge plug. Having equalized the pressure and while still latched to the
      equalization mechanism the tool is reconfigured with a force and locked into a second
      configuration. From that position the grip tool can latch and move the release mechanism for
      total release and retrieval to the surface. Release force undermines a ratchet lock for the slips
      to allow extension as the sealing element extends axially and radially retracts. If the slips fail
      to release with undermining of the ratchet lock then a set down force can be applied to re
      engage the lower slip cone to push it from the lower slips for a release.
      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
       [0008]      FIGS. l a-Id show a bridge plug in the run in position in section;
       [0009]      FIGS. 2a-2b show a section view of the grip tool in the initial configuration where
      the equalizing sleeve assembly can be gripped;
       [0010]      FIGS. 3a-3b is the view of FIGS. 2a-2b with the grip tool latched in a second and
       longer configuration so that it can reach the release sleeve;
       [0011]      FIGS. 4a-4b is the view of FIGS. 3a-3b with the grip tool engages to the release
       sleeve and ready to release the packer or bridge plug;
       [0012]      FIGS. 5a-5d show a section view of the bridge plug in the set position;

                                         4
 [0013]      FIGS. 6a-6e is the view of FIGS. 5a-5d in the released position and
 ready for removal from the borehole; and
 [0014]      FIG. 7 is an exterior view at the top of the bridge plug showing the
 alternating finger structure for the equalizing sleeve and the release sleeve.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
 [0015]      FIGS.la-ld will be used to provide a quick review of the major
 bridge plug components with the understanding that the configuration is
virtually the same for a packer except that the mandrel has a flowpath through
it. The illustrated bridge plug 10 has a seal assembly 12 with an embedded
upper band spring 14 and a lower embedded band spring 16. An upper cone 18
and lower cone 20 flank upper slips 22 and lower slips 24. An inner mandrel
26 has a through passage 28 that provides a flow path starting from ports 30,
through passage 28, to openings 32 shown in FIG. lb. Ports 34 are closed by
sleeve 36 straddling o-rings 38 and 40. Sleeve 36 is connected to equalizer
sleeve 42 at thread 44. Sleeve 42 has an exterior profile 46 which is initially
retained by the grip tool shown in FIGS. 2-4. The grip tool can be lowered into
the FIG. 2 position on wireline, slickline, coiled or rigid tubing. When used
with wireline or slickline, the assembly further features a jar tool of a type
known in the art for force application as needed in opposed directions as will
be explained below. Equalizing the set plug 10 happens with movement of
sleeve 36 away from overlapping at least o-ring 40. This happens when the top
end 48 of sleeve 42 is picked up with the grip tool and raised against travel
stop 50 as shown in FIG. 3a.
[0016]       Packer or plug release sleeve 52 has a similar exterior profile 54 as
the previously described profile 46 except the locations for the multiple
profiles 54 that appear on ends of a finger structure 56 shown in FIG. 7 are
circumferentially offset from the profiles 46 that appear on another set of axial
fingers 58 shown in FIG. 7. The release sleeve 52 initially traps collet heads
60 in groove 62 to prevent movement of upper mandrel 64 that is secured to
inner mandrel 26 at thread 66. Mandrel body 68 is connected to support collet
body 70 at thread 72. Lower collet 74 is connected at thread 76 to the lower
end of mandrel body 68. Opposed arrows 78 and 80 represent the location a
well-known setting tool applied force for setting the plug 10. A wireline
setting tool such as the E-4 sold by Baker Hughes Incorporated of Houston TX

                                        5
can be used to set the plug 10. The setting axially compresses the plug 10 to
force out the slips 22 and 24 and the sealing assembly 12 in a known manner.
An upper ratchet ring 82 will then engage a profile 84 on mandrel body 68 that
starts out located further downhole before the setting of the plug 10 as shown
in FIG. lb. At the lower end a lower collet 74 has an exterior profile 86
engaged to profile 88 and held engaged by the placement of surface 90 of
inner mandrel 26. A recess 92 can be selectively aligned with profiles 86 and
88 to release them from each other when the plug 10 is released. Profile 88 is
on lock ring 96. Lower cone 20 has a ratchet profile 94 configured to allow
ratchet profile 86 to ratchet over it when profile 86 moves uphole for release
but when profiles 86 and 94 are re-engaged there is only force transmission
into the lower cone 20 and no ratcheting action. This feature comes into play if
the slips 22 and 24 do not release when recess 92 aligns with lower collet 74.
In that event the mandrel body 68 is moved down to engage profiles 86 and 94
for tandem movement which has the result of pushing the lower cone 20 down
and away from lower slips 24 to effect the release of the plug 10. This new
feature goes beyond typical lock ring arrangements that simply are defeated in
an attempt to release the packer. At times the potential energy in the packer
element is insufficient to extend the sealing element and slip arrangement.
Alternatively, on the way out of the hole the slips can re-engage the
surrounding tubular as the lower cone works its way back under the lower
slips. The arrangement of ratchet profiles allows addressing such events by
engaging profiles 86 and 94 for tandem downhole oriented movement to break
the slips loose for another attempt to get the plug or packer to come out of the
hole.
[0017]      The grip tool 100 is illustrated in FIGS. 2-4. Its purpose is to
initially equalize the plug or packer 10 from the set position and then release
and retrieve it. It is delivered in a variety of ways as mentioned above but a
wireline (not shown) connected at 102 is preferred. Upper housing 104
advances until surfaces 106 and 108 shoulder out as shown in FIG. 2a. Vent
ports 110 allow fluid displacement from internal chamber 114 going over the
shear stud 112 that is shown un-sheared. Normally, the E-4 wireline setting
tool mentioned above is secured to the shear stud to apply a force in the
direction of arrow 80 as shown in FIG. la and discussed above. Normally the

                                        6
small diameter part of the shear stud 112 is supposed to be the shear location
but sometimes the stud remains whole so that internal chamber 114 is sized to
accept the whole shear stud 112 for those situations. Shear pins 116 allow for
release of the tool 100 from the plug or packer 10 in the event the packer fails
to equalize and release so that the wireline (not shown) and the tool 100 can be
removed so that a fishing tool can be attached to profile 118 or alternatively
the plug or packer 10 can be milled out.
[0018]      The profile 46 is initially gripped as outer collet support ring 120
and the grip collet ring 122 that is concentrically mounted to support ring 120
are deflected radially outwardly over the profiles 46 that exist at ends of
extending fingers 58 as shown in FIG. 7 and snaps back by the time surfaces
106 and 108 shoulder out. This initial movement can be accomplished with a
downward jarring to get surfaces 106 and 108 to connect. A subsequent
upward jarring with the collet ring 122 supported by ring 120 against the
profile 46 results in movement of sleeve 36 away from o-ring 40 to open ports
34 for equalization of pressure through passage 28 as described above. The
open position for sleeve 36 is also shown in FIG. 6a-6b where o-ring 38 has
also been uncovered as the plug 10 is being removed.
[0019]      Having equalized pressure across the seal assembly 12 a further
upward jar force is applied to tool 100 while still engaged to the profile 46 so
that shear pins 124 fail as seen by comparing FIGS. 2 and 3. With pins 124
sheared the upward applied force results in telescopingly extending the tool
100 in an axial direction and locking in the extension with a snap ring 126
extending radially into surrounding groove 127 as shown in FIG. 3a. This
creates a gap between surfaces 128 and 130 which were previously abutting. It
also locks in a greater distance between surface 108 and grip surface 132 such
that when surface 108 acts as a travel stop when jarring down again the
position of surface 132 will be below profiles 54 that are on fingers 56. As
shown in FIG. 4a, an upward jar force then applied will pull up profiles 54 for
the release of the plug or packer 10. Sleeve 52 is pulled up to the point of
engaging ring 134 after shearing screws 136, which is best seen in comparing
FIGS. 3 and 4. Movement of sleeve 52 releases collet heads 60 from their
respective groove 62 which then allows upper mandrel 64 to move in the
direction of arrow 138. With upper mandrel 64 moving, inner mandrel 26

                                         7
moves up to present recess 92 even up with locked profiles 86 and 88 so that
they can then separate under the potential energy in the sealing element 12 to
push the lower cone 20 out from under the lower slips 24. A pickup force on
the tool 100 should then get surfaces 140 and 142 to shoulder out as shown in
FIG. 6c so that the tool 100 can remove the plug 10 from the borehole. As
explained above, if the plug 10 does not release this way, jarring down on tool
100 brings profiles 86 and 94 back together for tandem movement in a
downhole direction to force the lower cone 20 downhole and out from under
the lower slips 24.
[0020]      Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the extendable nature of
the tool overcomes a risk of debris preventing the dogs in US 8322413 from
retracting. Such a failure of the dogs to retract into a recess will prevent plug
or packer release as the tool in that patent would be precluded from reaching
the release sleeve. By providing an extendable tool that is run in to release the
packer or plug the exposure of components to wellbore debris is minimized
thereby insuring operability when needed to equalize and release the packer.
Instead of the dog design of the past, the telescoping feature of the tool 100
allows for a simple way to integrate the ability to change the reach of the tool
to sequentially equalize and then release the plug or packer. The use of the
ratchet profiles that lock together for tandem movement in a downhole
direction provides a backup way to get the slips and sealing element to release
in the event that jarring up on the release sleeve and reliance on the potential
energy in the sealing element 12 does not allow the slips and sealing element
to extend axially so that they retract radially to allow plug removal.
[0021]      The above description is illustrative of the preferred embodiment
and many modifications may be made by those skilled in the art without
departing from the invention whose scope is to be determined from the literal
and equivalent scope of the claims below:

1001946178
                                                       8
      CLAIMS
      The claims defining the invention are as follows:
               1. A method of releasing a packer or bridge plug, comprising:
               delivering a telescoping grip tool in a first configuration to engage the packer or
      bridge plug at a first location;
               equalizing pressure across the set packer or bridge plug with movement of said
      telescoping grip tool;
               placing said telescoping grip tool in a second configuration after said equalizing;
               engaging a second location on said packer or bridge plug with said telescoping grip
      tool in said second configuration;
               releasing said packer or bridge plug after said equalizing with movement of said
      telescoping grip tool in said second configuration; and
               performing said equalizing and said releasing with a tensile pull on said telescoping
      grip tool.
               2.    The method of claim 1, comprising:
               increasing the length of said telescoping grip tool in tension at said first location after
      said equalizing and while still engaged to said first location on said packer or bridge plug.
                3.   The method of claim 1, comprising:
                engaging at said first location a first profile on a sleeve assembly for movement in
      tandem under tension with said telescoping grip tool;
                exposing a port on one side of a sealing element for said packer or bridge plug that
       leads to a passage terminating in a second open port on an opposite side of said sealing
       element.
                4.   The method of claim 3, comprising:
                deflecting at least one collet of said telescoping grip tool over said first profile such
       that a subsequent pickup force on said telescoping grip tool engages said at least one collet to
       said first profile for tandem movement of said first profile with said telescoping grip tool.
                5. The method of claim 4, comprising:
                retaining said at least one collet secured to said first profile after said equalizing;

1001946178
                                                      9
               applying a greater force to said first profile through said telescoping grip tool than
      said pick up force applied for said equalizing to telescope said telescoping grip tool into said
      second configuration.
               6.   The method of claim 5, comprising:
               allowing a snap ring to extend into a recess of said telescoping grip tool to lock said
      telescoping grip tool in said second configuration.
               7.   The method claim 5, comprising:
               delivering said telescoping grip tool on wireline or slickline;
               providing a jar tool with said telescoping grip tool to deliver force to said packer or
      bridge plug.
               8. The method of claim 1, comprising:
               delivering said telescoping grip tool on one of a slickline, a wireline, coiled tubing or
      rigid tubing.
               9.   The method of claim 1, comprising:
               providing a shearable emergency release for the telescoping grip tool operable if said
      packer or bridge plug fails to release.
                10. The method of claim 1, comprising:
               providing a shearable member to hold said telescoping grip tool in said first
      configuration.
                11. The method of claim 1, comprising:
                locating a ported internal chamber in said telescoping grip tool taller than an
       extending unsheared shear stud that is used in setting the packer or bridge plug.
                12. The method of claim 1, comprising:
                providing a support ring externally surrounding at least one collet on said telescoping
       grip tool for support of said at least one collet when engaging said packer or bridge plug in
       said first and second locations.

1001946178
                                                    10
               13. The method of claim 1, comprising:
               undermining meshing profiles that held the set of said packer or bridge plug with a
      force delivered by said telescoping grip tool when engaged to said second location on said
      packer or bridge plug so that said meshing profiles separate;
               allowing a sealing element and slips on said packer or bridge plug to extend axially
      and radially retract as a result of said undermining of said meshing profiles.
               14. The method of claim 13, comprising:
               providing a release profile on a lower slip cone on said packer or bridge plug;
               positioning, with movement of a mandrel by said telescoping grip tool, one of said
      previously separated and now axially spaced meshing profiles in meshing contact with said
      release profile on said lower slip cone for tandem movement in a direction taking said lower
      slip cone in a direction away from at least one lower slip as a backup release for said packer
      or bridge plug.
               15. The method of claim 1, comprising:
               retrieving said packer or bridge plug from a subterranean location after said releasing.
               16. The method of claim 3, comprising:
               providing a travel stop on said telescoping grip tool for the movement of said sleeve
      assembly within said telescoping grip tool.
                17. The method of claim 1, comprising:
               providing an internal landing shoulder on said telescoping grip tool, to position at
      least one gripping collet on said telescoping grip tool at first and second profiles on discrete
      movable members on said packer or bridge plug with said at least one gripping collet of said
      telescoping grip tool respectively in said first and second configurations for said equalizing
       and then said releasing of said packer or bridge plug.
                18. The method of claim 7, comprising:
               jarring down on said telescoping grip tool for said initial engagement at said first
       location;
               thereafter jarring up to perform said equalizing and jarring up again thereafter with
       said telescoping grip tool remaining engaged at said first location to place said telescoping

1001946178
                                                   11
      grip tool in said second configuration, thereafter jarring down to engage said telescoping grip
      tool at said second location and thereafter jarring up to release said packer and bridge plug.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
