I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\ 5945920_ldocx-2 I/2017
                                                            ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to compositions and methods for preventing allergy in a subject.
Particularly, the present invention relates to epicutaneous prevention of allergies in children.
The invention also relates to compositions for use in such methods, as well as their
manufacture. The invention may be used to cause protection against any allergy, particularly
food or respiratory allergies.

                                               1
                         METHOD OF PREVENTING ALLERGIES
This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2013218164, the entire
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to compositions and methods for preventing allergy in a
subject. Particularly, the present invention relates to epicutaneous prevention of
allergies in children. The invention also relates to compositions for use in such methods,
as well as their manufacture. The invention may be used to cause protection against any
allergy, particularly food or respiratory allergies.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Allergy occupies an increasingly large place in daily medical practice. It is a worldwide
public health phenomenon classified as the fourth worldwide scourge by the WHO. In
France, one Frenchman out of three is allergic and both respiratory and food allergy
affects an increasing portion of the population of adults and children.
Desensitization    (or immunotherapy)       is the   technique according    to which by
administering minimal amounts of allergens it is possible to more or less suppress the
allergic reaction to these allergens. By progressively administering the allergen, in
constant or varying doses, the subject becomes tolerant to the allergen. Immunotherapy
has proved to be effective in patients affected with severe IgE-dependent allergy,
sensitized to a restricted number of allergens. Desensitization can reduce the symptoms
related to short term allergic reaction as well as the progression of the symptomatology
towards more severe clinical signs, such as for example the transformation of allergic
rhinitis into asthma (Tij et al., 2004). Since the beginning of the year 2000, it has been
recognized by the WHO as the only method for basically treating allergy.

                                             2
Although the mechanisms of action of immunotherapy are not yet well-known, they
appear to involve (i) an increase in the IgGs and, in particular, in IgG4 fractions, these
antibodies blocking in vitro the biological effects of IgEs; (ii) a modification      of the
THI and TH2 immunological response, promoting a more balanced TH1/TH2 response;
and/or (iii) a production of T cells producing interleukin 10 (IL-10), which display anti
allergic properties against mastocytes, certain T lymphocytes and eosinophils and also
promote the production of IgG4.
Immunotherapy may be accomplished by various protocols or routes, including
subcutaneous, sublingual, nasal or epicutaneous. Subcutaneous Immunotherapy is
widely used. Although costly and requiring the intervention of a specialist physician at
each injection, it is today still considered as the standard desensitization route in
children (Pajno et al., 2005). However it is not without risks, since the frequency of
deaths is estimated to be 1 for 2.5 million injections with an average of 3.4 deaths per
year. Furthermore, potentially anaphylactic allergens with a high risk of reaction, such
as tree nuts and most food allergens, are not used for subcutaneous desensitization
treatment.
Sublingual immunotherapy is considered by the WHO as a satisfactory alternative to
subcutaneous immunotherapy. Much better tolerated by the patients, sublingual
immunotherapy is considered by many authors to provide a better cost-effectiveness
ratio than the other routes of administration, since it does not require the intervention of
a physician and may be self-administered by the patients (Pajno et al., 2005). Also,
adverse reactions are rare during treatments via a sublingual route, estimated to be from
0.1 to 0.2 reactions for 1,000 administered doses. Such reactions are mainly minor,
affecting the buccal cavity or the sublingual area or the gastro-intestinal sphere (La
Rosa et al., 1999).
In terms of effectiveness, however, the sublingual route is considered as less effective
than the subcutaneous route: it requires the use of a larger amount of allergen and
cannot be authorized with all allergens. This is so even though tests via this route for
desensitization to groundnuts and to cow milk are in progress. The safety of the use of
this technique with other food allergens remains to be evaluated.

                                             3
Intra-nasal immunotherapy has proved to be effective in 17 controlled studies out of 18.
This is therefore an effective and safe route for treating at        least allergic rhinitis.
However, it is generally poorly tolerated by patients, which increasingly limits its
clinical use. In a study comparing different desensitization routes, treatments via nasal
route were prematurely interrupted in approximately 50% of the cases before one year,
while early cessation occurred in less than 10% of the children treated via a
subcutaneous or sublingual route (Pajno et al., 2005).
Epicutaneous immunotherapy is based on skin application. This method typically
comprises the repeated application of an allergen known to cause an existing allergy on
the skin of a subject, generally leading to diffusion of the allergen in the surface layers
of the skin. Experiments conducted by the inventors have shown that the type of
immune response generated by epicutaneous immunotherapy may be controlled by the
treatment conditions. For example, commonly assigned international application
W02009/080934 discloses that a potent desensitization to an allergen may be obtained
by epicutaneous therapy using an allergen, without adjuvant, applied on an intact area of
the skin. Similarly, commonly assigned international application W02009/071599
discloses that a strong desensitization to groundnut may be obtained by epicutaneous
immunotherapy.
In the above experiments and publications, the allergen-specific effects of epicutaneous
immunotherapy were investigated by the inventors. Continuing that research, the
inventors have now surprisingly found that, depending on the treatment conditions,
epicutaneous immunotherapy may be employed as a prophylactic treatment to prevent
development of allergies in allergic patients. This unexpected result therefore allows the
design of a prophylactic treatment to prevent allergies in subjects.
                           SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present application provides novel methods for preventing allergies in mammalian
subjects by prophylactic epicutaneous administration of an allergen. More preferably,

                                               4
the invention relates to a method for preventing allergies in a child, wherein the method
comprises the epicutaneous administration of an allergen to said child, the allergen
being administered to the child upon detection of an allergic reaction to the same
allergen or a different allergen.
A further object of the invention also resides in a method for preventing allergy in a
child comprising epicutaneously administering to a child at least one allergen, wherein
the child is under 6 years old and has a detected allergic reaction to at least one allergen.
The child is preferably an infant or a toddler.
In accordance with one aspect of the invention, a method is provided for preventing
allergy in a child, wherein the child is allergic to milk or house dust mite and is under 6
years old, and wherein the method comprises epicutaneously administering to said child
at least one milk or house dust mite protein. As will be disclosed in the application, such
epicutaneous administration prevents the onset or development of allergy to other
allergens in said child.
In accordance with a further aspect of the invention,           a method is provided for
preventing allergy in a child, the method comprising detecting or verifying in a child the
occurrence of a first allergic reaction and, upon detection or verification of said first
allergic reaction, epicutaneously administering to said child at least one allergen
responsible for said first allergic reaction, said epicutaneous administration protecting
the child from development of at least one further allergy to another allergen.
In a further aspect of the invention, a method is provided for protecting a child from
development of multiple allergies, the method comprising detecting or verifying in a
child the occurrence of an allergic reaction and, upon detection or verification of said
allergic reaction, epicutaneously administering to said child at least one allergen
responsible for said allergic reaction, said epicutaneous administration inducing an
immune response in said child protecting the child from development of multiple
allergies.
The invention also relates to a composition for use in preventing allergies in a subject,
wherein the composition comprises an allergen and is applied epicutaneously to an

                                              5
allergic child. More preferably, the child is under 6 years old, more preferably the child
is an infant or a toddler. Even more preferably, the child is allergic to milk or house dust
mite. Most preferably, the child is treated upon detection of his first allergy.
The invention may be used to prevent development of further allergies in the treated
subjects, including to food, respiratory or contact allergies. It is particularly well suited
to the treatment of infants or toddlers who exhibit a first allergic event to a first allergen,
to desensitize the child to the first allergen, and to prevent the development of further
allergies to other, different allergens.
                                LEGEND TO THE FIGURES
Figure 1: study design. BALB/c mice were sensitized to milk and divided into 2 groups
in which one was treated (EPIT) and the other was untreated (Sham). The treatment was
conducted for 8 weeks. After this period, all mice received peanut with the same
protocol ordinarily used to sensitize mice to peanut protein extract (PPE). Mice were
then exposed to peanuts for 10 days. Esophagus inflammation was evaluated by the
measurement of eosinophil infiltration into esophagus, as determined by histology.
Serological responses and cellular responses were also investigated.
Figures 2: Specific IgE (Figure 2a) and IgG2 (Figure 2b) responses to milk after
sensitization at day 43 (D43), during EPIT at day 78 (D78), and at the end of treatment,
day 99 and day 127 (D99 and D127). Results are expressed as mean ± SD. ** p<0.01.
Figure 3: Specific IgE (Figure 3a) and IgG2 (Figure 3b) responses to PPE after EPIT
but before being exposed to PPE (D99) and after being exposed to PPE (D127). Results
are expressed as mean ± SD. * p<O.05, *** p<O.001.
Figure 4: Cellular responses of in vitro reactivated splenocytes by milk (CMP) or PPE
as measured by IL-4 (Figure 4a) and IL-5 (Figure 4b). Results are expressed as mean
SD. * p<0.05.
Figure 5: Induction of Foxp3+CD25+CD4+ T cells (Treg) from in vitro reactivated
splenocytes. At the end of experiments, splenocytes were harvested and reactivated in

                                              6
vitro for 3 days in the presence of milk (left part of the graph) and either PPE (right part
of the graph). The percentage of Treg per total CD4+ T cell population was expressed
as mean±SD. * p<0.05, ** p<0.01.
Figure 6: Eosinophil infiltration into esophagus evaluated by histological analyses.
Results are expressed as mean ± SD. ** p<0.01.
                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
The invention provides a novel prophylactic treatment of allergies. It is particularly well
suited to treat children exhibiting an allergic reaction to an allergen, to protect them
against development of further allergies to other, different allergens. It is particularly
efficient to treat young children who show an allergic reaction to milk or house dust
mite, thereby protecting the children from developing further allergies to still other
allergens. Indeed, young children, such as infants or toddlers, who develop an allergic
reaction to a first allergen, are very susceptible to become allergic to other substances.
The present invention allows the treatment of such allergic subjects and reduces the
occurrence of further allergies.
The present disclosure will be best understood by reference to the following definitions:
        Definitions
"Epicutaneous administration" refers to the application of a substance (e.g., an allergen)
on the skin of the subject under conditions allowing a contact with the surface of the
skin. Skin application is preferably performed without any skin perforation or pre
treatment. Skin application is preferably maintained in conditions allowing penetration
of the allergen in the superficial layer(s) of the skin and/or and for a period of time
sufficient to allow      contact of the allergen with        immune cells. Epicutaneous
administration is preferably performed with a skin device, such as a patch.

                                                7
Within the context of this invention, the term "preventing" allergies is meant to include
protecting the subject from development of further allergies, preventing appearance of a
sensitivity to further allergens, delaying appearance or occurrence of such sensitivity or
allergy to further allergens, or inhibiting or reducing the magnitude of any further
allergic reaction.
Within the context of the present invention, the term "intact skin" indicates that the
integrity of the stratum corneum layer should be substantially maintained. For the
performance of the invention, it is indeed most preferred to apply antigens on intact
(i.e., non-pre-treated) skin, e.g., on a surface or portion of the skin where the integrity of
the stratum comeum is essentially maintained. Maintaining the integrity of the stratum
corneum and natural activation state of keratinocytes and Langerhans cells, which are
located below the stratum comeum, is important to avoid a biased Th2 immune
response. By maintaining this integrity, the response obtained is highly oriented in the
sense of tolerance. Accordingly, although gentle cleaning of the skin surface may be
performed at the site of application, e.g., hydration, water cleaning, or very gentle single
stripping, to remove e.g., comeocytes, the skin should not be pre-treated, thus
maintaining substantial integrity of the stratum corneum. In particular, tape-stripping or
strong abrasion of the skin should not be performed, since such pre-treatments disrupt,
or remove all or part of the stratum corneum and cause stimulation of keratinocytes.
Similarly, perforation of the stratum corneum should be avoided.
The term "allergen" refers to an immunologic molecule involved in an allergic reaction.
The allergen may be of various nature, such as a lipid, protein, peptide, polypeptide,
metal, plastic, etc. In a particular embodiment, the allergen is a protein, polypeptide
and/or peptide. The allergen may be in a natural state, or produced artificially (e.g., by
recombinant     and/or enzymatic techniques         for instance). The allergen may be
structurally altered or modified to improve its stability, immunogenicity, etc. The
allergen may be pure or in admixture with other constituents. The allergen may be a
mixture of several molecules (e.g., an extract). As will be discussed further below, the
allergen may be used in different states, such as liquid or dry.

                                             8
Methods for preventing allergies
In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, compositions and methods for
preventive treatment of allergies are disclosed. In particular, the inventors have made
the unexpected discovery that epicutaneous administration of an allergen can induce or
stimulate a non allergen-specific immune response in a subject, thereby protecting the
subject from development of further allergies to other, different allergens. By applying
epicutaneous immunotherapy in subjects having an allergic background, it is possible
not only to desensitize an existing allergy but also to prevent the development of further
allergies. As discussed in detail below, the inventors'    in vivo experiments demonstrate
that the epicutaneous application of milk proteins to mammals allergic to milk
desensitizes against milk and also protects against challenge by other allergens,
including peanut and dust mite. These results are particularly surprising and remarkable
since using a food allergen, it is possible to cause a protective immunity against
development of further allergies to other food allergens as well as to respiratory or
contact allergens. The invention is particularly suited to protect children exhibiting a
first allergic response, which are at risk to develop further allergies. The invention is
particularly well suited to treat young children such as infants (0-1 year old) and
toddlers (1-3 years old). Without being bound by theory, the inventors believe the
reaction may be caused by a stimulation of the production of Treg cells by epicutaneous
therapy, leading to a better control of IgE-producing cells and other allergy immune
cells in the subject.
In one aspect of the invention, a method is provided for preventing further allergies in a
child having a detected allergic reaction, comprising epicutaneously administering to
said child at least one allergen, preferably one allergen responsible for said detected
allergic reaction.
The inventors have discovered that such a protective effect occurs once at least a first
allergic reaction has occurred in a subject. The results presented in this application
demonstrate that epicutaneous application of an allergen in such subjects can induce or
stimulate Tregs. The ability to induce Tregs epicutaneously had never before been
reported in the art. The results presented further show that Tregs are induced in these

                                              9
subjects when the allergen administered epicutaneously is an allergen responsible for
the allergic reaction detected in the subject. It is therefore possible that the at least first
allergic reaction (e.g., a sensitivity to an allergen) is needed to induce Treg cells
production, and that the epicutaneous treatment using the allergen can amplify this Treg
population thereby acting on subsequent allergic response(s). The present treatment
allows generation of a non-allergen specific immune response, which inhibits the
development of subsequent allergies to new allergens.
The invention is therefore particularly suited to treat children, particularly young
children below the age of 6. In such children, the immune system has not been exposed
yet to multiple allergens. In particular, food allergens are still limited in such children.
Accordingly, upon detection of a first allergic reaction, the preventive epicutaneous
treatment of the invention is particularly efficient. Moreover, because allergies can
develop early, by treating these children it is possible to prevent development of
multiple allergies.
The treatment is therefore preferably applied to children under 6 exhibiting an allergic
response. The invention is particularly well suited for treating infants and toddlers. The
allergic response detected in said children is typically a milk allergy or a dust mite
allergy. Accordingly, the method is particularly suited for treating children under 6
having an allergy to milk or dust mite. By administering epicutaneously to these
subjects a prophylactic amount of a milk or house dust mite allergen, it possible to
effectively protect the children against development of further allergies.
It is preferred to perform the treatment shortly after detection or verification of the
presence of an allergic reaction in the subject. Indeed, by acting early (i.e., before the
subject has been exposed to multiple allergens), it is possible to induce a strong and
potent immune response which is expected to prevent development of a wide array of
allergies. It is in this regard most preferred to treat the children upon detection or
verification of a first allergic reaction, so that a protective effect against all other
allergens can be contemplated.
In one preferred embodiment, the allergen is administered prior to detection of a second
allergic reaction to a second allergen in the treated child. Detection or verification of an

                                              10
allergic reaction can be performed using techniques per se known in the art. Examples
of methods suitable include the use of a prick-test, the dosage of IgE, and or an atopy
patch-test. The detection of an allergic reaction includes the detection of a sensitivity to
an allergen, even if no clinical sign of the allergy are present. Generally, the detection
comes first from appearance of classical allergic symptoms (inflammation, swallowing,
etc). It may then be tested again, or verified, e.g., by a practitioner, using any of the
above techniques, if needed. Once an allergic reaction has been detected or verified for
a subject, treatment of the invention may start. The treatment efficacy will increase if
the treatment is started shortly (e.g., immediately or within weeks, for example less than
4 weeks) after detection or verification of the allergic response. Indeed, by acting early,
a preventive effect towards any other allergy is generated. For that purpose, it is best if
the treatment is performed upon detection of the first allergic response in the subject,
and prior to detection of a further allergy (e.g., prior to appearance of detectable IgE
specific for a second allergen in said child). However, treatment is also potent in
subjects showing several allergic reactions, as it can still generate to general protection
against additional allergies.
The method is therefore particularly effective for treating infants (below 1 year) or
toddlers (1 year to 3 years) having a first allergic reaction.
In a preferred embodiment, the method is for treating children under 6 having a detected
allergic reaction to milk or house dust mite.
In accordance with one aspect of the invention, a method is provided comprising
epicutaneous application of at least one allergen to the subject. Most preferably, the at
least one allergen applied is an allergen responsible for the detected allergic reaction in
the subject. Indeed, using such an allergen, a protective effect is obtained and the
subject may also be desensitized to the allergen. Furthermore, the inventors have
surprisingly shown that the causative allergen is able to induce Tregs in the subject,
while unrelated allergens cannot.

                                               11
An allergen "responsible for" the detected allergic reaction (or a "causative" allergen)
designates any allergen derived from the substance to which the subject is allergic. The
allergen may be a component of the allergic substance (e.g., a protein of milk or house
dust mite), or a fragment of such a component (e.g. a fragment of a protein) having
immunogenic epitope(s). As indicated before, the allergen may be a whole extract, a
purified mixture, an isolated immunogen, etc.
In one embodiment of the invention, the detected allergic reaction is a milk allergy and
the allergen administered comprises a milk protein or a fragment thereof having
immunogenic epitope(s).
In another embodiment of the invention, the detected allergic reaction is a house dust
mite allergy and the allergen administered comprises a house dust mite protein or a
fragment thereof having immunogenic epitope(s).
The epicutaneous treatment protocol may be adjusted by the practitioner. Typically, the
allergen is applied repeatedly (i.e., several times), for a period of time sufficient to cause
a protective immune response. In a preferred embodiment, the treatment is performed
during a period of at least 3 months, preferably at least 6 months, and more preferably
between 6 and 36 months. During this treatment period, the allergen may be
administered at various frequencies, such as weekly, every other day, or daily. The dose
of allergen used for each application can be adjusted by the skilled artisan. Typically, it
may comprise between 0.1 and 10000 pg, preferably between 20 and 1000 pg. The
protective immunity in the subject can be verified at any time by conventional
examination. In particular, the existence of a protective immune response in the treated
subjects can be verified by a decrease in, or a disappearance or absence of clinical signs
of allergies, such as digestive disorders, cutaneous signs (e.g., eczema or dermatic
atopy), rhinitis, or asthma. Dosing immune cells or mediators (such as IgE) in the
subject may also be performed, although the absence of clinical signs is sufficient. Once
the protective immunity has been generated, it is possible to reduce the treatment
(dosage, frequency of application, time of application), or to even stop it. As indicated
above, the treatment is typically to be maintained for a period of time of at least 3
months, with repeated applications at different intervals.

                                               12
In a preferred embodiment, the allergen is applied without adjuvant. However, although
not preferred, the allergen may be combined with an adjuvant, i.e., any substance that
e.g., activates or accelerates the immune system to cause an enhanced immune response.
Examples of adjuvants include mineral salts, such as calcium phosphate, aluminium
phosphate and aluminium hydroxide; immunostimulatory DNA or RNA, such as CpG
oligonucleotides; proteins, such as antibodies or Toll-like receptor binding proteins;
saponins e.g. QS21; cytokines; muramyl dipeptide derivatives; LPS; MPL and
derivatives including 3D-MPL; GM-CSF (Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating
factor); imiquimod; colloidal particles; complete or incomplete Freund' s adjuvant;
Ribi's adjuvant or bacterial toxin e.g. cholera toxin or enterotoxin (LT).
In a further preferred embodiment, the allergen is applied on an intact area of the skin.
It is particularly preferred to apply the allergen without adjuvant and on intact skin.
The allergen may be applied using different techniques or devices suitable to maintain
contact between the allergen and the skin of the subject. Such devices include, without
limitation, a patch, a tape, a dressing, a sheet, or any other form known to those skilled
in the art. Preferably, the skin device is a patch, even more preferably an occlusive
patch. Preferred patch devices do not alter integrity of the skin, i.e., they are non
perforant. In the most preferred embodiment, the method of the invention uses a skin
patch device as described in international patent applications W02002/071950 and WO
2007/122226. Such a device is occlusive and is configured to use an allergen in dry
form, the allergen being maintained on the patch through electrostatic and/or Van der
Waals forces, with no added adhesive. The preparation and characteristics of such a
device (termed Viaskin®) are disclosed in detail in the above identified applications,
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
For the performance of the present invention, it is particularly well suited to use a
device comprising a backing adapted to create with the skin a hermetically closed
chamber, this backing having on its skin facing side within the chamber the dry antigen
adhered through electrostatic forces and/or Van der Waals forces. Upon application to
the skin, moisture increases in the chamber, leading to allergen dissolution and
contacting with the skin.

                                              13
In another preferred embodiment of the invention, the antigen is applied on the skin of
the subject using an occlusive patch device comprising a support to which the allergen
is bound. Preferably, the allergen is bound to the support of the patch through
electrostatic or Van der Waals forces, with no added adhesive. In particular
embodiments, the support of the patch may comprise glass or a polymer chosen from
the group consisting of cellulose plastics (CA, CP), polyvinyl chloride (PVC),
polypropylenes,       polystyrenes,     polyurethanes,   polycarbonates,       polyacrylics,
polyolefines, polyesters, polyethylenes and ethylene-vinyl acrylates (EVA). The patch
may be secured to the skin by an adhesive border.
In a most preferred embodiment, the method is performed using a dry allergen
preparation, which is preferably applied on the skin using an electrostatic skin device. In
this regard, the term "dry" designates the fact that the allergen is substantially
powdered, e.g., in the form of particles which may be individualized or agglomerated.
Although less preferred, the allergen may be in liquid form and applied using known
devices, such as occlusive devices having a reservoir or a perforated membrane.
In accordance with one aspect of the invention, a method is provided for preventing
allergy in a child, the method comprising epicutaneously administering, to a child under
6 having a detected allergic reaction to milk or house dust mite, at least one milk or
house dust mite protein, said epicutaneous administration preventing the onset of
allergy to other allergens in said child.
The invention also relates to a method for protecting a child from development of
multiple allergies, the method comprising detecting or verifying in a child the
occurrence of a first allergic reaction and, upon detection of said first allergic reaction,
epicutaneously administering to said child one allergen responsible for said first allergic
reaction, said epicutaneous administration inducing an immune response in said child
protecting the child from development of multiple allergies.

                                               14
The invention also relates to a composition for use to prevent allergy in a subject,
wherein the composition comprises an allergen and is applied epicutaneously to a child
having a detected allergic reaction. More preferably, the child is under 6 years old. Even
more preferably, the child is allergic to milk or house dust mite. Most preferably, the
child is treated upon detection of his first allergy.
A further object of the invention is a method for inducing Tregs in an allergic subject,
the method comprising epicutaneously applying to the subject a causative allergen.
Further aspects and advantages of the invention will be disclosed in the following
experimental section, which should be considered as illustrative.
                                        EXAMPLES
Methods
Mice
Three-week-old female BALB/c mice (Charles River Laboratories, France) were used
in the study. All experiments were performed according to European Community rules
of animal care.
Protocol of sensitization to milk
Three-week-old BALB/c mice were sensitized to milk by receiving 6 weekly intra
gastric administrations of milk mixed with 10pg of cholera toxin as adjuvant. Sera were
collected from the retro-orbital venous plexus before and at the end of the sensitization
period. Naive mice were bled on the same days.
Protocol of epicutaneous immunotherapy to milk
Epicutaneous immunotherapy (EPIT) was performed once a week during 8 consecutive
weeks. First, mice were anaesthetized intraperitoneally with ketamine and xylazine and
shaved with an electric clipper and depilatory cream. The day after, 100pg of milk
proteins were placed on the back and maintained by an adhesive bandage for 48 hours.
Protocol of sensitization to peanuts

                                           15
Two weeks after the end of epicutaneous immunotherapy, mice were submitted to a
validated peanut sensitization program by administering only one dose (80 mg) of
peanut proteins by oral route. Control mice (not sensitized to milk, not treated to milk)
were submitted to the same peanut sensitization program as a positive control. Naive
mice were included as negative controls.
Sustained peanut oral challenge
Peanuts were reintroduced into their regimen. This consisted of exclusive feeding with
peanuts instead of standard mouse food for 4 consecutive days. Animals then received
peanuts mixed into standard food for the 6 following days, and daily intra-gastric
administration of a solution containing 10 mg of peanut protein for the last 3 days of
this second phase. At the end, mice were sacrificed after deep anesthesia and samples
were taken to examine the histology of the esophagus, the mRNA expression of
cytokines in the esophagal mucosa and the cytokines secreted by reactivated
splenocytes. Blood samples were also taken in order to measure the serological
responses to peanuts.
Assay of specific IgE, IgGI, and IgG2a in plasma samples
Blood samples were collected under anaesthesia from the retro-orbital venous plexus
and the plasma samples were stored at -20'C until further analyses. Specific antibodies
were determined using a quantitative ELISA, which has been in-house developed.
Briefly, microtiter plates were coated with 100 pl per well of milk or peanut allergenic
materials at a protein concentration of 5 pg/ml. Serial dilutions of 50 pl of each serum
were dispensed per well and incubated for 24 h at +4'C. An anti-mouse IgE, IgG1 or
IgG2a antibody labelled with alkaline phosphatase (Serotec, Oxford, England) was used
as a tracer. Para-nitrophenyl phosphate (pNPP - Sigma, France) was used as an enzyme
substrate. Specific IgE, IgG1 and IgG2a were quantified by comparison with
concentration-response    curves obtained with a total IgE, IgG1 or IgG2a assay
performed under identical conditions using a solid phase coated with an anti-mouse IgE,
IgG1 or IgG2a antibody (Serotec, Oxford, England), which is complementary to tracer,

                                              16
instead of allergenic proteins. Mouse immunoglobulin standards were obtained from
Serotec (Oxford, England).
Cellular responses
After sacrifice of mice, spleens were teased into a single-cell suspension and washed
three times in RPMI-1640 (Gibco, France). Cells were counted and adjusted to a culture
density of 4 x 106 cells/ml and cell suspensions of 500 pl were placed into each well of
a 24-well microtiter plate (Nunc) together with 500 pl medium or milk or PPE
(100pg/ml). After 72 hrs, the supernatants were harvested and analyzed for the presence
of cytokines using BioPlex cytokine Assay (BioRad, mames-la-Coquette, France) in
accordance with the manufacturer' s instructions. Cell count and CD4, CD25 Md Foxp3
staining were performed using specific antibodies (BD Pharmingen). Acquisition was
performed on Canto II cytometer by acquiring 5000 events in a predefined FSCO/SSCO
gate. Percentage of CD25 and Foxp3-positive cells within CD4+ population was then
assessed using FlowJo software.
Results
Serological responses (figures 2 and 3)
Sensitization to milk was performed from day 1 to day 43, and followed by treatment by
milk EPIT (see protocol of Fig 1).
As shown in Fig 2a, sensitization to milk is marked in mice by a production of specific
IgE (fig 2a: day 43).
In milk-sensitized mice, the milk EPIT treatment (fig 2a: from day 44 to day127)
induced:
             e  First, an increase of specific IgE (fig 2a: from day 78 to day 98) during
                the 8-week-period of treatment,
             e  then a decrease of the specific IgE (fig 2a: from day 99 to day 127) one
                month after the end of EPIT, as observed in clinical studies;
             e   eventually, a significant increase (fig 2b: from D78 to D127) of specific
                IgG2a, a Th1 biological marker. At day 127, the achieved rate of

                                            17
                specific IgG2a over specific IgE showed a modification of the immune
                response form a Th2 profile to a more marked Th1 profile, thus signing
                the EPIT efficacy.
During the second phase of the protocol, mice were exposed to PPE. The results show
that, among the mice exposed to peanut at day 99 (protocol of sensitization to peanut)
only sham treated and control mice exhibit an increase in specific IgE to peanuts (figure
3a). To the opposite, in mice previously treated by epicutaneous milk immunotherapy, a
significant increase in specific IgG2a to peanuts (figure 3b) was observed, which is
characteristic of a tolerant response to peanuts. These results show that milk EPIT
treatment protected the mice from subsequent PPE allergy.
Cellular response (figures 4 and 5)
               i)      Cytokines (figure 4)
Figures 4 shows cellular responses of splenocytes reactivated in vitro by cow' s milk
protein (CMP) or by peanut protein extract (PPE) as measured by IL-4 (figure 4a) and
IL-5 (figure 4b). Results are expressed as mean ± SD.
Figure 4-left part and figure 4b-left part: The in vitro reactivation of splenocytes of
sham group was marked by a production of IL-4 and IL-5, which are Th2 cytokines,
compared to control and EPIT (p<0.05). This phenomenon signs a protection effect of
the EPIT applied to milk-EPIT mice.
Figure 5-right part and figure 5b-right part (effect of the peanut protein exposition
protocol on the EPIT/sham/control groups): exposition to peanut in milk-sensitized
Sham-treated and control mice was marked by a high production of IL-4 and IL-5,
which are Th2 cytokines, compared to milk sensitized-EPIT treated mice (p<0.05). This
phenomenon signs a global protection effect of the EPIT applied to milk protein
sensitized mice.

                                              18
               ii)      Treg (figure 5)
Specific induction of Treg cells was analyzed after:
     -  Sensitization (figure 5-milk - left part),
     -  Milk EPIT (figure 5-milk/ - right part),
     -  PPE exposure on Sham mice (figure 5 - PPE - left part),
     -  PPE exposure on milk EPIT treated mice (figure 5 - PPE - right part).
Our results show that, in the milk EPIT treated group, a high level of Treg
(CD4m CD25m Foxp3m ) cells is induced after milk sensitization. This Treg population is
specifically induced by immunotherapy. Conversely, the number of Treg cells did not
increase by in vitro reactivation in the presence of PPE. Without being bound by theory
it seems likely that the presence of Treg cells specifically induced by EPIT-milk (figure
5-milk/ - right part), directs the immune response to PPE towards a tolerant profile
without production of Th2 cytokines.
Eosinophil infiltration in esophagus (figure 6)
The sustained oral peanut exposure to peanuts mainly triggers the esophagus and
induces a high infiltration of eosinophils for mice sensitized to peanuts (control, figure
6).
A higher infiltration of eosinophils was observed in mice sensitized and not treated to
milk and then exposed to peanuts with the protocol of PPE sensitization (sham, figure
6).
When mice sensitized and EPIT-treated to milk were exposed to peanuts to induce
esophagus inflammation, no eosinophilic infiltration was observed in the esophagus
(EPIT, figure 6), at a similar level than naive mice (mice not sensitized to milk and
peanuts : naive, figure 6).

                                              19
Discussion
This study has surprisingly shown in vivo that an early desensitization to milk
significantly influences the immune response to other allergens. This is the first
demonstration of a preventive effect on allergy caused by epicutaneous therapy. Indeed,
EPIT treatment to milk induced a specific production of regulatory T cells (Treg). The
induction of tolerance to milk via Treg prevented the sensitization to other allergens,
such as peanuts or HDM. It was shown that after an effective desensitization process to
milk by EPIT, the treated animals were protected from sensitization to PPE and a
tolerant response was obtained with a high production of specific IgG2a and low levels
of Th2 cytokines secreted by reactivated splenocytes. Moreover, the protocol of
desensitization to peanut induced a very low eosinophilic infiltration in esophagus.
These results therefore demonstrate that EPIT treatment can induce an effective
protection against further allergies in subjects.
Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated element or integer or method step or group of elements
or integers or method steps but not the exclusion of any element or integer or method
step or group of elements or integers or method steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication
(or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

WO 2013/117519                                                        PCT/EP2013/052163
                                                20
                                             CLAIMS
  1. A composition comprising an allergen for use in treating a child having a detected
 allergy, to prevent said child from developing a further allergy, wherein the composition
 comprises an allergen responsible for said detected allergy and is administered
 epicutaneously to said child, said administration protecting the child from development
 of at least one further allergy to another allergen.
 2. The composition for use of claim 1, wherein the child is an infant or a toddler.
 3. The composition for use of claim 1 or 2, wherein the detected allergy is the first
 detected allergy in said child and wherein the allergen is administered upon detection or
 verification of said first allergic reaction.
 4. The composition for use of any one of claims I to 3, wherein the detected allergic
 reaction is to a food, respiratory or contact allergen.
 5. The composition for use of claim 4, wherein the detected allergy is an allergy to milk,
 house dust mite, or peanut.
 6. The composition for use of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the allergen is applied
 repeatedly.
 7. The composition for use of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the allergen is applied
 in the absence of adjuvant.
 8. The composition for use of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the allergen is applied
 on an intact area of the skin.
 9. The composition for use of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the allergen is applied
 using a non-invasive occlusive patch device.
  10. The composition for use of any one of claims I to 9, wherein the allergen is applied
 repeatedly during a period of 3 to 36 months.

WO 2013/117519                                                         PCT/EP2013/052163
                                               21
  11. A composition for use in preventing allergies in an infant having a detected allergic
 reaction to milk or house dust mite, the composition comprising a milk or house dust
 mite allergen and being epicutaneously applied to the infant, upon detection of the
 allergic reaction.
  12. A composition for use in protecting an infant or toddler having a detected first
 allergic reaction from development of multiple allergies, the composition comprising
 one allergen responsible for said first allergic reaction and being applied epicutaneously
 to said infant or toddler upon detection of said first allergic reaction, said epicutaneous
 administration protecting the infant or toddler from development of multiple allergies.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1
                                      1/5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
              4/5
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                Figure 4a
                Figure 4b

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
