                                            Abstract
Storing the hash of an agreed form of contract on the blockchain in a private format only the
parties can access. The contract itself will be stored on an online repository accessible to
anyone in possession of the login credentials.
Any person in possession of the credentials for the relevant online repository, the hash and
the original contract can verify that the hash is a representation of the original document.
The contract document will be stored privately with controlled access (e.g. on an online
repository) while the hash is stored within a smart contract on the Ethereum (or similar)
blockchain. This allows anyone to take the original document that's on the github repo to
reproduce the hash to verify that what has been put onto the chain represents the original
document with non-repudiation;
Agreement to the terms of the contract by parties who do so by utilising their wallets - the
use of wallets means that the signing of the contract is traced to the parties; and
The parties use their public key to publicly declare who they are in the smart contract, and
use an open source Ethereum (or similar) wallet such as MEW (or similar) to send a
transaction to the smart contract, including the hash they wish to agree to and a message
that includes their name, the date and their intention to sign the contract. The smart contract
verifies both the document hashes and that they are a signatory to the hash. The smart
contract then emits an event to the blockchain as well as stores the state within the contract.
This process holds true under the assumption that the private keys of the participants (and
their encryption passwords) remain secret.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

                                           Description
Since the invention of Contract Law by the common law courts, parties have negotiated
written contracts as a way to avoid disputation over their bargain. The advent of word
processing has aided drafting and negotiations of contracts such that contracts are regularly
reduced to writing in very detailed form. Certain requirements exist for the execution of
contracts such that they must follow a process for risk not being legally binding. Redenbach
Lee has developed a way to both satisfy the very particular legal requirements that exist in
various justifications, commonly those pertaining to the execution of deeds, by use of the
Auditable Blockchain Contract Documentation Execution System (ABCDE). Byu reason of
the fusion of the usual standard way of the negotiating and preparing executable versions of
the contract, together with the latest Blockchain technology based on the Ethereum (or
similar) platform Redenbach Lee has created an impervious system of auditing the execution
of contract in such a way as has never been created in commercial use or production before.
The system which is described below in the Abstract has the potential to revolutionise and
streamline existing systems and methods by:
     1. Creating a verifiable, auditable system of contract management and execution;
     2. Facilitating the execution of contracts to occur in a secure and encrypted Blockchain
         Environment;
     3. Enable large-scale contracts to be executed regardless of each parties' location.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

                                            Claim
ABCDE is a decentralised, Ethereum (or similar) blockchain-based, smart-contract execution
medium that allows parties to securely verify and execute agreements.

