Abstract
The present document describes a method for generating and displaying a succession of
short-term weather forecasts, also called nowcasts, in selectable time increments. A system
for preparing nowcasts, called nowcaster, is used for preparing short-term forecasted weather
values with a default time increment between each one of them. The method receives a
chosen time increment from a user and the prepared forecasted weather values. The method
comprises an aggregator that re-packages the forecasted weather values in the chosen time
increments. A succession of short-term weather forecasts, which is a collection of forecasted
weather values at the chosen time increment, is then outputted.

        METHOD FOR GENERATING AND DISPLAYING A NOWCAST IN
                          SELECTABLE TIME INCREMENTS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]           This application claims priority of co-owned and co-invented U.S. Patent
Application No. 13/856,923 filed on April 4, 2013, U.S. Patent Application No.
13/922,800, filed on June 20, 2013, U.S. Patent Application No. 13/947,33 1, filed on July
22, 2013, U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/839,675, filed on June 26, 2013, U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/835,626, filed on June 16, 2013, and U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/836,713, filed on June 19, 2013, the entire disclosures of which are
hereby incorporated by reference.
BACKGROUND
 (a) Field
 [0002]          The subject matter disclosed generally relates to methods for producing
 weather forecasts. More specifically, the subject matter relates to software applications
 for producing weather forecasts.
 (b) Related Prior Art
 [0003]          Conventional weather forecasting systems provide weather predictions
 twelve hours to a few days from the present time. If one needs a short term forecast or a
 forecast with a fine time scale, the best information available usually is an hourly forecast
 for the day.
 [0004]          Conventional weather forecasts are average forecasts for the area for
 which they are generated. Thus, a forecast may be inaccurate for a precise location within
 this area, and even the present weather displayed for an area may differ from the actual
 weather for a precise location within this area.
  [0005]         Moreover, conventional weather forecasts are displayed at a time scale
 that is too coarse to allow a user to know when a weather event takes place in a precise
  location and time. Even for hourly conventional weather forecasts, it is impossible for the

user to know if the forecasted weather event lasts one hour or one minute and, for the
latter, at what time it takes place exactly within the hour.
[0006]           There is a need in the market for the generation and display of short term
weather forecasts at different time scales.
SUMMARY
[0007]           The present embodiments describe such a method.
[0008]           According to an embodiment, there is provided a computer implemented
method for outputting a chronological succession of weather forecasts starting at a given
time, over a given period, and for a given territory, the method comprising: receiving
forecasted weather values prepared by a weather value forecaster, the forecasted weather
values starting at the given time and for subsequent times separated by a default time
increment; receiving a choice of a time increment from a user, the chosen time increment
defining a succession of specific times starting at the given time and for subsequent times
separated by the chosen time increment, the chosen time increment being smaller than 1
hour; for each choice of a time increment, using the forecasted weather values at the
default time increment for generating a new succession of weather forecasts for time
intervals between the specific times; and outputting the succession of weather forecasts
for the time intervals between the specific times.
[0009]           According to an embodiment, receiving the forecasted weather values
comprises receiving forecasted weather values which comprise at least one of a
precipitation rate, a precipitation type, a precipitation probability, a temperature, a
pressure, a relative humidity, a wind velocity, a wind direction, a value relative to a
lightning, a value relative to hail, and a value relative to a microburst.
[0010]           According to an embodiment, generating the succession of weather
forecasts comprises using at least one of a precipitation rate, a precipitation type, a
precipitation probability, a temperature, a pressure, a relative humidity, a wind velocity, a
wind direction, a value relative to a lightning, a value relative to hail, and a value relative
to a microburst among the forecasted weather values.
                                                2

[0011]          According to an embodiment, generating the succession of weather
forecasts for the time intervals between the specific times comprises selecting among the
forecasted weather values prepared at the default time increment at least one of the
forecasted weather values prepared for each specific time.
[0012]          According to another embodiment, generating the succession of weather
forecasts for the time intervals between the specific times comprises averaging weather
values prepared for times that are within a time range which includes each specific time
and selected among the forecasted weather values prepared at the default time increment.
[0013]          According to an embodiment, outputting the succession of weather
forecasts comprises presenting the succession of weather forecasts to the user.
[0014]          According to an embodiment, outputting the succession of weather
forecasts comprises outputting the succession of weather forecasts over a given period
smaller than 6 hours.
[0015]          According to an embodiment, receiving a choice of a time increment
comprises receiving a time increment saved from a previous use.
[0016]          According to an embodiment, generating the succession of weather
forecasts at the chosen time increment comprises generating the succession of weather
forecasts at a chosen time increment of 1 minute, 5 minutes, 15 minutes or 30 minutes.
[0017]          According to an embodiment, receiving a choice of a time increment
comprises receiving a choice of a time increment which is variable over the given period.
[0018]          According to an embodiment, generating the succession of weather
forecasts starting at the given time comprises generating the succession of weather
forecasts starting at a current time.
[0019]          According to an embodiment, outputting a succession of weather forecasts
for a given territory comprises outputting a succession of weather forecasts for a very
small region defined as having a resolution ranging between 5 meters and 1,000 meters.
                                             3

[00201           According to an embodiment, outputting a succession of weather forecasts for
a very small region comprises outputting a succession of weather forecasts for a current
location of the user.
[0021]           According to an embodiment, outputting a succession of weather forecasts for
a current location of the user comprises outputting a succession of weather forecasts for a
current location which is determined through a computing device which is enabled for
localization by a communication network or through a GPS navigation device.
[0022]           According to an embodiment, receiving a choice of a time increment from a
user comprises receiving any real number specified by the user.
[0023]           According to an embodiment, receiving a choice of a time increment from a
user comprises receiving the chosen time increment which is greater than or equal to the
default time increment.
[0024]           In another aspect, there is provided a system for outputting a chronological
succession of weather forecasts starting at a given time, over a given period, and for a given
territory, the system comprising: an input for receiving forecasted weather values prepared by
a weather value forecaster, the forecasted weather values starting at the given time and for
subsequent times separated by a default time increment; an input for receiving a choice of a
time increment from a user, the chosen time increment defining a succession of specific times
starting at the given time and for subsequent times separated by the chosen time increment,
the chosen time increment being smaller than 1 hour; a weather forecast generator for
generating, for each choice of a time increment, a new succession of weather forecasts for
time intervals between the specific times using the forecasted weather values; and an output
for outputting the succession of weather forecasts for the time intervals between the specific
times.
[0024a]          According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
computer implemented method for outputting a chronological succession of weather forecasts
starting at a given time, over a given period, and for a given territory, the method comprising:
         receiving forecasted weather values prepared by a weather value forecaster, wherein
                 each of the forecasted weather values is associated with a corresponding one
                 of a plurality of default time periods, the plurality of default time periods
                                                 4

                starting at the given time, and wherein each of the plurality of default time
                periods has a duration of a default time increment;
        receiving a chosen time increment from a user, the chosen time increment defining
                chosen time periods having durations of the chosen time increment, wherein
                the chosen time increment is longer than the default time increment such that
                each of the chosen time periods includes more than one of the plurality of
                default time periods;
        generating an aggregated weather value for each of the chosen time periods by
                aggregating the forecasted weather values of the default time periods that are
                included in the chosen time period; and
outputting the aggregated weather values of the chosen time periods.
[0024b]         According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided device
for outputting a chronological succession of weather forecasts starting at a given time, over a
given period, and for a given territory, the device comprising:
        one or more processors;
        a memory storing instructions for the one or more processors, wherein when the
                instructions are executed by the one or more processors, the device is caused
                to:
        receive forecasted weather values prepared by a weather value forecaster, wherein
                each of the forecasted weather values is associated with one of a plurality of
                default time periods, and wherein each of the plurality of default time periods
                has a duration of a default time increment;
        receive a chosen time increment from a user, the chosen time increment defining
                chosen time periods having durations of the chosen time increment, wherein
                the chosen time increment is longer than the default time increment such that
                each of the chosen time periods includes more than one of the plurality of
                default time periods;
        generate an aggregated weather value for each of the chosen time periods by
                aggregating the forecasted weather values of the default time periods that are
                included in the chosen time period; and
the aggregated weather value for each chosen time period.
Definitions
[0025]          In the present specification, the following terms are meant to be defined as
indicated below:
                                                4a

[0026]           Nowcasting: The term nowcasting is a contraction of "now" and
"forecasting"; it refers to the sets of techniques devised to make short term forecasts,
typically in the 0 to 12 hour range.
[0027]           A nowcaster or system for preparing nowcasts is a weather forecasting
device which prepares very short term (e.g., 1 min., 5 mins., 15 mins., 30 mins., etc.)
forecasts for a very small region on Earth (resolution of 5 meters, 10 meters, 50 meters,
 100 meters, 500 meters, 1,000 meters, etc.). The nowcaster comprises a weather values
forecaster for preparing forecasted weather values and a weather forecast generator for
generating weather forecasts by selecting forecasted weather values among the forecasted
weather values that have been prepared.
 [0028]          A weather value a weather related quantity or attribute of any sort such as
a precipitation rate, a precipitation type, a precipitation probability, a temperature, a
pressure, a relative humidity, a wind velocity, a wind direction, a value relative to a
 lightning, a value relative to hail, a value relative to a microburst, an accumulation, a
 cloud cover, etc.
 [0029]          A forecasted weather value is a weather value that is predicted by the
 nowcaster. The forecasted weather value relates to a time or to a time interval.
 [0030]          A weather forecast is a set of one or more forecasted weather values that
 are displayable to users. The weather forecast relates to a time or to a time interval.
 [0031]          A user is a person to whom or a machine to which a weather forecast is
 forwarded.
 [0032]          A weather-related event is, for example, at least one of hail, a wind gust,
 lightning, a temperature change, etc.
 [0033]          Precipitation type (PType): indicates the type of precipitation. Examples
 of precipitation types include, but are not limited to, rain, snow, hail, freezing rain, ice
 pellets, ice crystals.
                                              5

[0034]          Precipitation rate (PRate): indicates the precipitation intensity. Examples
of precipitation rate values include, but are not limited to, no (i.e., none), light, moderate,
heavy, extreme. In an embodiment, the precipitation rate can also be expressed as a
range of values such as: none to light, light to moderate, moderate to heavy, or any
combination of the above.
[0035]          Precipitation probability: indicates the probability that precipitation might
occur. Examples of precipitation probability values include, but are not limited to, no,
unlikely, slight chance of, chance of, likely, very likely, certain,.
[0036]          In an embodiment, the precipitation probability can also be expressed as a
range of values such as: none to light, light to moderate, moderate to heavy. Precipitation
probability may also be expressed in terms of percentages; e.g., 0%, 25%, 50%, 75%,
 100%; or ranges of percentages; e.g., 0% to 25%, 25% to 50%, 50% to 75%, 75% to
 100%. In an embodiment, the precipitation probability may be taken from a probability
distribution.
 [0037]         Precipitation type and precipitation rate categories           (PTypeRate): a
PTypeRate category is combination of precipitation type and precipitation rate to which
may be associated a probability of occurrence for a given period to indicate the
possibility of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a certain rate.
[0038]          Throughout the specification and claims, the following terms take the
meanings explicitly associated herein, unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The
phrase "in one embodiment" as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same
embodiment, though it may. Furthermore, the phrase "in another embodiment" as used
herein does not necessarily refer to a different embodiment, although it may. Thus, as
described below, various embodiments of the invention may be readily combined,
without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. The term "comprising" and
 "including" should be interpreted to mean: including but not limited to.
 [0039]         In addition, as used herein, the term "or" is an inclusive "or" operator, and
is equivalent to the term "and/or," unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term
                                               6

 "based on" is not exclusive and allows for being based on additional factors not
 described, unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
 [00401           Features and advantages of the subject matter hereof will become more
 apparent in light of the following detailed description of selected embodiments, as
 illustrated in the accompanying figures. As will be realized, the subject matter disclosed
 and claimed is capable of modifications in various respects, all without departing from
the scope of the claims. Accordingly, the drawings and the description are to be regarded
 as illustrative in nature, and not as restrictive and the full scope of the subject matter is set
forth in the claims.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0041]           Further features and advantages of the present disclosure will become
apparent from the following detailed description, taken in combination with the appended
drawings, in which:
[0042]            Figure 1A is a block diagram of a method for generating and displaying a
nowcast in selectable time increments in accordance with an embodiment;
[0043]            Figure lB is a block diagram of a method for generating and displaying a
nowcast in selectable time increments in accordance with another embodiment;
[0044]            Figure 2A is a block diagram of a suitable nowcaster for implementing the
embodiments;
[0045]            Figure 2B is a more detailed block diagram of a suitable nowcaster for
implementing the embodiments;
[0046]            Figure 3 is an example of a network environment in which the
embodiments may be practiced;
[0047]            Figure 4 is an exemplary diagram illustrating a suitable computing
operating environment in which embodiments of the invention may be practiced;
                                                  7

[0048]          Figure 5 is a screenshot of a user interface, on which the embodiments of
the method may be practiced, illustrating a weather forecast displayed with a one-minute
time increment;
[0049]          Figure 6 is a screenshot of a user interface, on which the embodiments of
the method may be practiced, illustrating a weather forecast displayed with a five-minute
time increment.
[0050]          It will be noted that throughout the appended drawings, like features are
identified by like reference numerals.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0051]          The embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with
reference to the accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof, and which show, by
way of illustration, specific embodiments by which the embodiments may be practiced.
The embodiments are also described so that the disclosure conveys the scope of the
invention to those skilled in the art. The embodiments may, however, be embodied in
many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth
herein.
[0052]          Among other things, the present embodiments may be embodied as
methods or devices. Accordingly, the embodiments may take the form of an entirely
hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment, an embodiment combining
software and hardware aspects, etc. Furthermore, although the embodiments are
described with reference to a portable or handheld device, they may also be implemented
on desktops, laptop computers, tablet devices or any computing device having sufficient
computing resources to implement the embodiments.
[0053]          Briefly stated, the present embodiments describe a computer implemented
method for generating and displaying a nowcast in selectable time increments. The user
of the method selects a time increment and the weather forecast is outputted following the
selected time increment. The weather forecast is generated by a short-term weather
                                              8

forecaster known as system for preparing nowcasts or nowcaster, described more
thoroughly hereinbelow.
[0054]           Figure 1A is a block diagram of a method for generating and displaying a
nowcast in selectable time increments in accordance with an embodiment. The method
shown in Figure 1 is implemented within the nowcaster 200. Forecasted weather values
 120 are prepared within the nowcaster 200. The forecasted weather values 120 start from
a given time are prepared over a given period at the default time increment for a given
territory. In an embodiment, the given time is a current time. In an embodiment, the
default time increment is the finest time increment, for example one minute. In another
embodiment, it is possible to have a chosen time increment 100 which is smaller than the
default time increment, in which case an interpolation is required.
 [0055]          According to the embodiment, the forecasted weather values may be
 prepared within the method, but they may also be prepared by a weather value forecaster
 that is not a part of the method, in which case the method described herein comprises
 receiving the forecasted weather values.
 [0056]           Figure 1A further illustrates the user choosing a time increment 100. The
 choice is made through a user interface. The chosen time increment 100 is most often
 (but not necessarily) equal to or greater than the default characterizing the forecasted
 weather values 120.
 [0057]           According to an embodiment, the time increment may be memorized, for
 later retrieving the memorized time increment instead of prompting the user for a choice,
 thus allowing using a time increment saved from a previous use of the method.
 [0058]           According to an embodiment, the chosen time increment 100 may include
 a plurality of chosen time increments, allowing the generation 110 of weather forecasts to
 be done with a time increment that is variable across the given period over which the
 weather forecasts are generated. For example, the weather forecasts may be generated
 and outputted for a time increment of 1 minute for the first 5 minutes, then changing to a
                                                9

 time increment of 5 minutes during the first hour, then changing to a time increment of
 30 minutes for the next hours.
 [0059]           Once the forecasted weather values 120 and the chosen time increment
 100 are both known, the method is ready for the generation 110 of weather forecasts at
 the chosen time increment. According to an embodiment, the generation 110 of weather
 forecasts may comprise two steps, as illustrated by Figure LA. Since forecasted weather
 values are not all relevant for a user, a selection 125 of weather values is performed to
 keep only relevant values for the weather forecasts eventually outputted by the method.
 The aggregation 130 may then take place.
 [0060]          The aggregation 130 is the part of the method that transforms the list of
 relevant forecasted weather values resulting from selection 125 generated for the default
 time increment into a list of forecasted weather values 120 with the chosen time
 increment 100, which is coarser than the default time increment; i.e., the chosen time
 increment 100 is greater than or equal to the default time increment.
 [0061]          According to an embodiment, the aggregation 130 is precipitation
oriented, meaning that when the aggregation 130 takes place, it verifies if a precipitation
is likely to take place within the chosen time increment 100, and if the answer is yes, then
the precipitation type and rate that might happen during the chosen time increment 100
will be outputted. For example, in this embodiment, if the default time increment for the
forecasted weather values 120 is one minute, and if the user chooses a five-minute time
increment 100, the aggregation 130 will check the five forecasted weather values 120 that
have been generated within that time frame and check for a forecasted precipitation. If
four forecasted weather values 120 are "no precipitation" and one is "risk of light rain"
for example, and then the aggregation 130 will allow the output 140 of a risk of light rain.
[0062]           In other words, the chosen time increment defines a succession of times,
called specific times, which start at the given time (which may be or not the current time)
and for subsequent times separated by the chosen time increment 100. The succession of
specific times may be used to separate time intervals for which the succession of weather
                                              10

forecasts is generated. The method comprises selecting among the forecasted weather
values prepared at the default time increment at least one of the forecasted weather values
prepared for each specific time.
[00631          According to another embodiment, the aggregation 130 may comprise
averaging the forecasted weather values 120 that are within the chosen time increment
100. For example, in this embodiment, if the default time increment for the forecasted
weather values 120 is one minute, and if the user chooses a five-minute time increment
100, the aggregation 130 will comprise averaging the five forecasted weather values 120
of the same type (e.g. five temperature values, or five pressure values, or five PTypeRate
values, etc.) that have been generated within that time frame and that mean will be used
for the display of the chronological succession of weather forecasts. Averaging weather
values may comprise computing an arithmetic mean or a geometric mean. It would be
possible to avoid using all the weather values for averaging.
[0064]          In other words, this embodiment may still use the specific times and time
intervals separated by the specific times as defined for the previous embodiment
described hereinabove. The succession of weather forecasts is generated for the time
intervals between these specific times. In this embodiment, for each specific time, the
method comprises selecting among the forecasted weather values prepared at the default
time increment for times that are within a time range which includes each specific time,
and then averaging these weather values to generate a weather forecast for this time
interval. During display, this weather forecast may be associated to the closest specific
time instead of the time interval, for the convenience of the user.
[0065]          In other embodiments, the aggregation 130 may comprise other algorithms
or selection rules to determine how the forecasted weather values 120 generated for the
fine default time increment are aggregated to the coarser chosen time increment 100.
[0066]          The outputting 140 may comprise displaying the succession of weather
forecast relatively to a given period. According to an embodiment, this given period may
change according to the chosen time increment 100.
                                              11

[0067]          The output 140 may be updated at a given frequency to allow the user to
know the most recent succession of weather forecasts.
[0068]          According to other embodiments, the outputting 140 may comprise saving
the succession of weather forecasts, or sending it to another computer.
[0069]          According to an embodiment, the chosen time increment 100 may vary
across the given period over which the succession of weather forecasts is outputted.
[0070]          Figure 1B illustrates a different embodiment on which the method is
embedded. The difference with the embodiment presented in Figure 1A lies in the fact
that the choice of a time increment 100 is not done at the beginning of the method. In the
present embodiment, once the forecasted weather values 120 are known, the default time
increment of the weather values is considered for the generation 110 of weather forecasts
at the default time increment. The outputting 140 of the succession of weather forecasts
occurs for presenting 150 to the user. Then the user may choose the time increment 100.
This choice brings the method back to the generation 110 of weather forecasts at the
actual time increment, followed by the outputting 140 and the presenting 150 of the
succession of weather forecasts at the actual time increment, until the user chooses a new
time increment 100.
Nowcaster
[0071]          Figure 2A and 2B are block diagrams of a suitable nowcaster 200 such as
that described in co-owned and co-invented US patent application No.13/856923 filed on
April 4, 2013.
[0072]          As shown in Figure 2A and 2B, the nowcaster 200 receives weather
observations from different sources 201 such as weather observations sources including
but not limited to: point observations 201-2 (e.g. feedback provided by users and
automated stations), weather radars 201-3, satellites 201-4 and other types of weather
observations 201-1, and weather forecast sources such as numerical weather prediction
(NWP) model output 201-5 and weather forecasts and advisories 201-6.
                                            12

[0073]          The nowcaster 200 comprises a memory 220 and a processor 210. The
memory 220 comprises the instructions for the method and also stores data from the
weather sources 201, intermediate results and weather forecasts. The processor 210
allows the nowcaster 200 to perform calculations.
[0074]          The nowcaster 200 can receive information 230 from a user through a
communication network 254. According to an embodiment, this information 230 may be
the chosen time increment 100.
[0075]           The nowcaster 200 outputs a weather forecast, or a succession of weather
forecasts.
[0076]           In an embodiment, the nowcaster 200 comprises a PType distribution
forecaster 202 and a PRate distribution forecaster 204. The PType forecaster 202 receives
the weather observations from the different sources 201 and outputs a probability
distribution of precipitation type over an interval of time, for a given latitude and
longitude (and/or location). For example:
             a. Snow: 10%
             b. Rain: 30%
             c. Freezing Rain: 60%
             d. Hail: 0%
             e. Ice Pellets: 0%
 [0077]          Similarly, the PRate forecaster 204 receives the weather observations for a
 given latitude and longitude from the different sources 201 and outputs a probability
 distribution forecast of a precipitation rate (PRate) in a representation that expresses the
 uncertainty. For example, the PRate may be output as a probability distribution of
 precipitation rates or a range of rates over an interval of time, for a given latitude and
 longitude. For example:
             f. No Precip: 30%
             g. Light: 40%
             h. Moderate: 20%
                                               13

             i. Heavy: 10%
[0078]          The PRate and PType values output by the PRate forecaster 204 and the
PType forecaster 202 are sent to a forecast combiner 206 to combine these values into a
single value PTypeRate which represents the precipitation outcomes. For example, if the
value of PType is "Snow", and the value of "PRate" is heavy, the combined value of
PTypeRate may be "heavy snow".
[0079]          For a given latitude and longitude, the system outputs forecasted
PTypeRate Distributions for predefined time intervals, either fixed (ex: 1 minute) or
variable (ex: 1 minute, then 5 minutes, then 10 minutes, etc). The system can either pre
calculate and store forecasted PTypeRate Distributions in a sequence of time intervals, or
calculate it on the fly. A PTypeRate Distribution represents, for each time interval, the
certainty or uncertainty that a PTypeRate will occur.
 [0080]         With reference to Figure 2B, the forecast combiner 206 receives the final
PRate distribution from the PType forecaster 202 and the final PRate distribution from
the PRate forecaster 204 to combine them into a group of PTypeRate distribution values
 each representing the probability of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a certain
 rate. An example is provided below.
 [0081]         Assuming that the PType distribution is as follows: Snow: 50%, Rain 0%,
 Freezing rain: 30%, Hail 0%, Ice pellets 20%, and the PRate distribution is as follows:
 None: 0%, light: 10%, moderate:20%, Heavy: 30%, Very heavy 40%, the PTypeRate
 distributions may be as follows:
                                             14

     PType          Snow            Rain         Freez. Rain          Hail          Ice Pellets
                    50%             0%              30%               0%               20%
PRate
None 0%        No              No              No               No               No
               precipitation   precipitation   precipitation    precipitation    precipitation
Light           5%       light No              3%         light No               2% light ice
10 %            snow           precipitation   freezing rain    precipitation    pellets
Moderate        10%            No              6% moderate      No               4% moderate
20%             moderate       precipitation   freezing rain    precipitation    ice pellets
                snow
Heavy           15%     heavy No               9%       heavy   No               6% heavy ice
30%             snow           precipitation   freezing rain    precipitation    pellets
V.     heavy    20%     heavy No                12%   v.heavy   No                8%    v.heavy
40%             snow           precipitation   freezing rain    precipitation    ice pellets
[0082]           Accordingly, the forecast combiner 206 multiplies the probability of each
type of precipitation by the probability of each rate of precipitation to obtain a probability
of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a certain rate for example, 20% chance of
heavy snow, or 12% chance of very heavy freezing rain. In an embodiment, it is possible
to associate probability ranges with textual information for displaying the textual
information to the user instead of the probabilities in numbers. For example, probabilities
that are between 5% and 15% may be associated with the text: "low chance", while
probabilities that are between 40% and 70% may be associated with the text "high
chance", or "very likely" etc. whereby, instead of displaying: 60% chance of heavy snow,
it is possible to display: "high chance of heavy snow".
                                              15

[0083]          In another embodiment, it is possible to combine two or more different
PTypeRates along one or more dimensions (the dimensions including: the rate, type, or
probability). For example, results of such combination may include: Likely light to
moderate rain, Likely light to moderate rain or heavy snow; Likely moderate rain or
snow; likely rain or snow; chance of light to moderate rain or heavy snow or light hail;
chance of moderate rain, snow or hail; chance of rain, snow or hail, etc.
[0084]          Accordingly, the nowcaster 200 receives the location for which the
nowcasts are needed and the time and/or time interval for which the nowcasts are needed
and outputs the PTypeRate distribution for the given location and for the specific time.
[0085]          In another embodiment, it is possible to combine two or more different
PTypeRates along one or more dimensions (the dimensions including: the rate, type, or
probability). For example, results of such combination may include: Likely light to
moderate rain, Likely light to moderate rain or heavy snow; Likely moderate rain or
snow; likely rain or snow; chance of light to moderate rain or heavy snow or light hail;
chance of moderate rain, snow or hail; chance of rain, snow or hail, etc.
[0086]          Accordingly, the nowcaster 200 receives the location for which the
nowcasts are needed and the time and/or time interval for which the nowcasts are needed
and outputs the PtypRate distribution for the given location and for the specific time.
[0087]          There may be another embodiment of the nowcaster 200. In this
embodiment, the nowcaster comprises a PType selector/receiver and a PRate distribution
forecaster.    Similar to the embodiment shown in Figure 2B, the PRate distribution
forecaster receives the weather observations for a given latitude and longitude from the
different sources and outputs a probability distribution forecast of a precipitation rate
(PRate) in a representation that expresses the uncertainty. For example, the PRate may be
output as a probability distribution of precipitation rates or a range of rates over an
interval of time, for a given latitude and longitude. In one non-limiting example, it could
be:
             1) No Precip.: 30%
                                              16

            2) Light: 40%
            3) Moderate: 20%
            4) Heavy: 10%
[0088]          As will be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art, there can be
various other types and numbers of categories than the example provided above.
[0089]          However, the PType selector/receiver does not output a probability
distribution associated with different types of precipitation.           Instead, the PType
selector/receiver receives weather observations for a given latitude and longitude from
the different sources to select one precipitation type from a list of different precipitation
types. For example, based on the inputs received from the sources, the PType
selector/receiver selects a single precipitation type that is most likely to occur in the given
latitude and longitude (and/or location) from the following list of precipitation types:
            1)  Snow
            2)  Rain
            3)  Freezing Rain
            4)  Hail
            5)  Ice Pellets
            6)  Mix (e.g., a+c, a+d, b+c, a+e, c+e, d+e, etc.)
[0090]          From the list of precipitation types such as the one above, only one
precipitation type is selected for a given location. For example, a mix of snow and
freezing rain can be selected as the most likely precipitation type for a given location at a
given time. The precipitation type is not associated with a probability value. In fact, since
only one precipitation type is selected for any given location and time corresponding to
the location, the selected precipitation type will have the effective probability value of
 100%.
[0091]          The list of precipitation types that are available for selection of one type
may include a mix type that represents a mix of two different precipitation types (e.g.,
snow and freezing rain, hail and ice pellets, etc.). A mix type is considered as a distinct
precipitation type available for selection and, as shown above in (f) of the list, there can
be many different mix types representing the mix of different pairs of various
precipitation types.
                                               17

[0092]          In another embodiment, the precipitation type is not selected by the PType
selector/receiver but instead is received from a source outside the nowcaster. In other
words, the nowcaster 200 may request to a remote source (e.g., a third-party weather
service) identification of the precipitation type that is most likely to occur for a given
location at a given time and receive a response from the source identifying the most
likely precipitation type. In this case, selection of the precipitation type is not performed
by the nowcaster. The nowcaster             merely is inputted with the already-selected
precipitation type and thereby can save computational power of the nowcaster that would
otherwise have been needed to perform the selection.
[0093]          The selected precipitation type and the PRate values respectively output
by the PType selector/receiver and the PRate distribution forecaster are combined. For
example, if the selected precipitation type is snow, and the PRate values are as described
above, the combined information would indicate:
            1) No Snow: 30%
            2) Light Snow: 40%
            3) Moderate Snow: 20%
            4) Heavy Snow: 10%.
[0094]          As only one precipitation type is concerned, only minimal amount of
computational power is needed to perform the combining to output the final weather
forecast data. Since the PType selector/receiver will output one (1) precipitation type for
a given location and time, if the PRate distribution forecaster outputs a number m of
probability distribution, the final weather forecast data will comprise only a number m
(m* 1) of weather forecast distribution.
[0095]          In outputting the final weather forecast data, it is possible to associate
probability ranges with textual information for displaying the textual information to the
user instead of the probabilities in numbers, similar to the embodiment shown in Figure
2. For example, probabilities that are between 5% and 15% may be associated with the
text: "low chance," while probabilities that are between 40% and 70% may be associated
with the text "high chance," or "very likely," etc. whereby, instead of displaying: "60%
                                               18

chance of heavy snow," it is possible to display: "high chance of heavy snow." As will
be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, there can be many other variations
than the examples provided herein.
[0096]         Accordingly, the nowcaster receives the location for which the nowcasts
are needed and the time and/or time interval for which the nowcasts are needed and
outputs the selected PType and PRate distribution for the given location and for the
specific time.
[0097]          The nowcaster according to this another embodiment of the nowcaster
may be advantageous over the embodiment shown in Figure 2B in certain circumstances
in which efficiency is desired. This another embodiment can be implemented using much
less processing power than the embodiment of Figure 2B. However, the embodiment of
Figure 2B may be more suitable than this another embodiment described above in
providing more detailed and accurate snapshot of weather forecast data for any given
location and time.
[0098]          Figure 3 is an example of a network environment in which the
embodiments may be practiced. The nowcaster 200 may be implemented on a server 250
which is accessible by a plurality of client computers 252 over a communication network
254. The client computers 252 may include but not limited to: laptops, desktops, portable
computing devices, tablets and the like. Using a client computer 252, each user may
select the chosen time increment 100 and view the displayed forecasted weather values.
The server accesses weather source 201 over a telecommunications network as discussed
in connection with Figure 2B. The server 250 may have map data stored thereon.
[0099]          According to an embodiment, the client computers 252 may be used for
localization to provide weather forecasts for an appropriate given territory, which can be
the current location of the user. This localization may occur through a computing device
which is enabled for localization or through a GPS navigation device.
                                              19

[00100]         The client computer 252 should comprise a user interface, such as a
screen, to allow the output 140 of the weather forecast. On the user interface, the user is
able to choose a time increment 100.
[00101]         Figure 5 is a screenshot of a user interface illustrating the presenting 150
of a succession weather forecasts displayed with a default one-minute time increment
according to an embodiment. The highlighted number illustrates the time increment 100
that has been chosen by the user. Since the number one is highlighted, the weather
forecast displayed in Figure 5 ("no rain" in this example) is displayed with a one-minute
time increment. The succession of weather forecasts is related to location 500 and times
550.
[00102]         Figure 6 is a screenshot of a user interface illustrating an output 140 of a
succession weather forecasts displayed with a five-minute time increment according to an
embodiment. As in Figure 5, the highlighted number illustrates the time increment 100
that has been chosen by the user. Since the number five is highlighted, the weather
forecast displayed in Figure 6 ("no rain" in this example) is displayed with a five-minute
time increment. The succession of weather forecasts is related to location 500 and times
550.
HARDWARE AND OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
[00103]         Figure 4 illustrates an exemplary diagram of a suitable computing
operating environment in which embodiments of the invention may be practiced. The
following description is associated with Figure 4 and is intended to provide a brief,
general description of suitable computer hardware and a suitable computing environment
in conjunction with which the embodiments may be implemented. Not all the
components are required to practice the embodiments, and variations in the arrangement
and type of the components may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of
the embodiments.
[00104]         Although not required, the embodiments are described in the general
context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed
                                             20

by a computer, such as a personal computer, a hand-held or palm-size computer,
Smartphone, or an embedded system such as a computer in a consumer device or
specialized industrial controller. Generally, program modules include routines, programs,
objects, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular tasks or implement
particular abstract data types.
[00105]         Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments
may be practiced with other computer system configurations, including hand-held
devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer
electronics, network PCS, minicomputers, mainframe computers, cellular telephones,
smart phones, display pagers, radio frequency (RF) devices, infrared (IR) devices,
Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), laptop computers, wearable computers, tablet
computers, a device of the IPOD or IPAD family of devices manufactured by Apple
Computer, integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices, or any
other computing device capable of performing the methods and systems described herein.
The embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where
tasks are performed by remote processing            devices that are linked through a
communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules
may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.
[00106]         The exemplary hardware and operating environment of Figure 4 includes a
general purpose computing device in the form of a computer 720, including a processing
unit 721, a system memory 722, and a system bus 723 that operatively couples various
system components including the system memory to the processing unit 721. There may
be only one or there may be more than one processing unit 721, such that the processor of
computer 720 comprises a single central-processing unit (CPU), or a plurality of
processing units, commonly referred to as a parallel processing environment. The
computer 720 may be a conventional computer, a distributed computer, or any other type
of computer; the embodiments are not so limited.
[00107]         The system bus 723 may be any of several types of bus structures
including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any
                                              21

of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory may also be referred to as simply
the memory, and includes read only memory (ROM) 724 and random access memory
(RAM) 725. A basic input/output system (BIOS) 726, containing the basic routines that
help to transfer information between elements within the computer 720, such as during
start-up, is stored in ROM 724. In one embodiment of the invention, the computer 720
further includes a hard disk drive 727 for reading from and writing to a hard disk, not
shown, a magnetic disk drive 728 for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic
disk 729, and an optical disk drive 730 for reading from or writing to a removable optical
disk 731 such as a CD ROM or other optical media. In alternative embodiments of the
invention, the functionality provided by the hard disk drive 727, magnetic disk 729 and
optical disk drive 730 is emulated using volatile or non-volatile RAM in order to
conserve power and reduce the size of the system. In these alternative embodiments, the
RAM may be fixed in the computer system, or it may be a removable RAM device, such
as a Compact Flash memory card.
[00108]          In an embodiment of the invention, the hard disk drive 727, magnetic disk
drive 728, and optical disk drive 730 are connected to the system bus 723 by a hard disk
drive interface 732, a magnetic disk drive interface 733, and an optical disk drive
interface 734, respectively. The drives and their associated computer-readable media
provide nonvolatile storage of computer-readable instructions, data structures, program
modules and other data for the computer 720. It should be appreciated by those skilled in
the art that any type of computer-readable media which can store data that is accessible
by a computer, such as magnetic cassettes, flash memory cards, digital video disks,
Bernoulli cartridges, random access memories (RAMs), read only memories (ROMs),
and the like, may be used in the exemplary operating environment.
[00109]          A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk, magnetic
disk 729, optical disk 731, ROM 724, or RAM 725, including an operating system 735,
one or more application programs 736, other program modules 737, and program data
738. A user may enter commands and information into the personal computer 720
through input devices such as a keyboard 740 and pointing device 742. Other input
                                            22

devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish,
scanner, touch sensitive pad, or the like. These and other input devices are often
connected to the processing unit 721 through a serial port interface 746 that is coupled to
the system bus, but may be connected by other interfaces, such as a parallel port, game
port, or a universal serial bus (USB). In addition, input to the system may be provided by
a microphone to receive audio input.
[00110]         A monitor 747 or other type of display device is also connected to the
system bus 723 via an interface, such as a video adapter 748. In one embodiment of the
invention, the monitor comprises a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD). In addition to the
monitor, computers typically include other peripheral output devices (not shown), such as
speakers and printers. The monitor may include a touch sensitive surface which allows
the user to interface with the computer by pressing on or touching the surface.
 [00111]        The computer 720 may operate in a networked environment using logical
connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer 749. These
 logical connections are achieved by a communication device coupled to or a part of the
 computer 720; the embodiment is not limited to a particular type of communications
 device. The remote computer 749 may be another computer, a server, a router, a network
 PC, a client, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many
 or all of the elements described above relative to the computer 720, although only a
 memory storage device 750 has been illustrated in Figure 6. The logical connections
 depicted in Figure 6 include a local-area network (LAN) 751 and a wide-area network
 (WAN) 752. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide
 computer networks, intranets and the Internet.
 [00112]         When used in a LAN-networking environment, the computer 720 is
 connected to the local network 751 through a network interface or adapter 753, which is
 one type of communications device. When used in a WAN-networking environment, the
 computer 720 typically includes a modem 754, a type of communications device, or any
 other type of communications device for establishing communications over the wide area
 network 752, such as the Internet. The modem 754, which may be internal or external, is
                                             23

connected to the system bus 723 via the serial port interface 746. In a networked
environment, program modules depicted relative to the personal computer 720, or portions
thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It is appreciated that the
network connections shown are exemplary and other means of and communications devices
for establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.
[00113]         The hardware      and operating    environment in conjunction with which
embodiments of the invention may be practiced has been described. The computer in
conjunction with which embodiments of the invention may be practiced may be a
conventional computer a hand-held or palm-size computer, a computer in an embedded
system, a distributed computer, or any other type of computer; the invention is not so limited.
Such a computer typically includes one or more processing units as its processor, and a
computer-readable    medium such as a memory. The computer may also include a
communications device such as a network adapter or a modem, so that it is able to
communicatively couple other computers.
[00114]         While preferred embodiments have been described above and illustrated in the
accompanying drawings, it will be evident to those skilled in the art that modifications may
be made without departing from this disclosure. Such modifications are considered as
possible variants comprised in the scope of the disclosure.
[00115]         Mere reference to background art herein should not be construed as an
admission that such art constitutes common general knowledge in relation to the invention.
[001161         Throughout this specification, including the claims, where the context permits,
the term "comprise" and variants thereof such as "comprises" or "comprising" are to be
interpreted as including the stated integer or integers without necessarily excluding any other
integers.
                                                24

         Claims
         1. A computer implemented method for outputting a chronological succession of
weather forecasts starting at a given time, over a given period, and for a given territory, the
method comprising:
         receiving default forecasted weather values prepared by a weather value forecaster,
                 wherein each of the default forecasted weather values is associated with a
                 corresponding one of a plurality of default time periods, the plurality of
                 default time periods starting at the given time, and wherein each of the
                 plurality of default time periods has a duration of a default time increment;
         receiving a chosen time increment from a user, the chosen time increment defining
                 chosen time periods having durations of the chosen time increment, wherein
                 the chosen time increment is longer than the default time increment such that
                 each of the chosen time periods includes more than one of the plurality of
                 default time periods;
         generating an aggregated forecasted weather value for each of the chosen time periods
                 by selecting the default forecasted weather value with a highest probability of
                 precipitation among the more than one default time periods that are included
                 in the chosen time period; and
         outputting the aggregated forecasted weather values of the chosen time periods via a
                 graphical user interface, wherein the graphical interface includes one or more
                 time increments, the chosen time periods of the chosen time increment and the
                 forecasted weather values for each of the chosen time periods.
         2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the default forecasted weather values
comprise at least one of a precipitation rate, a precipitation type, a precipitation probability, a
temperature, a pressure, a relative humidity, a wind velocity, a wind direction, a value
relative to a lightning, a value relative to hail, and a value relative to a microburst.
         3. The method of claim 1, wherein the aggregated forecasted weather values comprise
at least one of a precipitation rate, a precipitation type, a precipitation probability, a
temperature, a pressure, a relative humidity, a wind velocity, a wind direction, a value
relative to a lightning, a value relative to hail, and a value relative to a microburst.
                                                  25

        4. The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein outputting the aggregated forecasted
weather values of the chosen time periods comprises presenting the aggregated forecasted
weather values for the chosen time periods to the user.
        5. The method of any of claims 1-4, wherein the chosen time increment is shorter than
6 hours.
        6. The method of any of claims 1-5, wherein receiving the chosen time increment
comprises receiving a time increment saved from a previous use.
        7. The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the chosen time increment corresponds
to 1 minute, 5 minutes, 15 minutes or 30 minutes.
        8. The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein the chosen time increment is variable
over the given period.
        9. The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the given time corresponds to a current
time.
        10. The method of any of claims 1-9, wherein the aggregated forecasted weather
values are associated with a given region and the given region corresponds to an area ranging
between 5 square meters and 1,000 square meters.
        11. The method of claim 10, wherein the given region corresponds to a current
location of the user.
        12. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining the current location
based on input received from a communication network or through a GPS navigation device.
        13. A device for outputting a chronological succession of weather forecasts starting at
a given time, over a given period, and for a given territory, the device comprising:
        one or more processors;
                                               26

       a memory storing instructions for the one or more processors, wherein when the
              instructions are executed by the one or more processors, the device is caused
              to:
              receive default forecasted weather values prepared by a weather value
                      forecaster, wherein each of the default forecasted weather values is
                      associated with one of a plurality of default time periods, and wherein
                      each of the plurality of default time periods has a duration of a default
                      time increment;
              receive a chosen time increment from a user, the chosen time increment
                      defining chosen time periods having durations of the chosen time
                      increment, wherein the chosen time increment is longer than the
                      default time increment such that each of the chosen time periods
                      includes more than one of the plurality of default time periods;
              generate an aggregated forecasted weather value for each of the chosen time
                      periods by selecting the default forecasted weather value with a highest
                      probability of precipitation among the more than one default time
                      periods that are included in the chosen time period; and
              output the aggregated forecasted weather value for each of the chosen time
                      periods via a graphical user interface, wherein the graphical interface
                      includes one or more time increments, the chosen time periods of the
                      chosen time increment and the forecasted weather values for each of
                      the chosen time periods.
       14. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions of any of
claims 1-12.
                                               27

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
