                                               -28
   ABSTRACT
   A bracket assembly for connecting or linking an overhead roof structure to below roof
   structure elements of a building. The below roof structure elements include a wall having a
 5 top plate member or ceiling support structure. The bracket assembly comprises a bracket
   member which is interconnectable and fastenable to the overhead roof structure and below
   roof structure. The bracket member comprises at least a pair of truncated substantially V
   shape bodies in cross section forming a cross shape in plan view. One end of the bracket
   member is connectable to the overhead fixing members to the overhead roof structure and
10 the other end of the bracket member is connectable to the below roof structure, which are
   adapted to provide structural integrity between the below roof structure and overhead
   structure. Various methods are also disclosed.

   Bracket Assembly and Method
   The invention relates to a bracket assembly for providing positive connection between parts
   of a building and to a method of installation. The invention is directed particularly but not
 5 solely towards connection to walls or ceiling structures to overhead structures but to any
   upright wall or ceiling structures to overhead structures to provide structural integrity to a
   building in response to any extreme events.
   Background of Invention
10
   Connections of elements of a building structure including the top of a partition or wall
   structure to an overhead structure like for example a roof structure can be very important in
   seismic events or any event where the building is subject to external forces beyond normal
   day to day use. Ceiling structures include a metal grid frame which is hung by cable or wire
15 from roof structure with the grid supporting ceiling tiles which may rest or locate on top of
   the wall structure but not transfer any significant loading thereon. However the grid and
   ceiling tiles are not held rigidly to the roof structure and so are able to sway or move very
   easily if the roof structure moves.
20 Therefore it is desirable from a point of view of reducing injury or loss of life, to enable any
   building or components of a building to hold together for as long as possible so to not
   collapse straight away on top of people while allowing safe evacuation.
   Some existing methods of connecting the roof structure to a wall partition usually involve
25 simply attaching fasteners like nails or bolts through the ceiling or roof structure to the top of
   a wall partition.    Attaching such fasteners is awkward and not very effective in providing
   good positive fastening to both structures.       Yet other methods involve cutting existing
   bracing structures to attach to walls and roof structures for different angles or distances
   which in it self can cause structural weakness to the bracing structure.
30
   All references, including any patents or patent applications cited in this specification are
   hereby incorporated by reference. No admission is made that any reference constitutes prior

                                                 -2
   art. The discussion of the references states what their authors assert, and the applicants
   reserve the right to challenge the accuracy and pertinency of the cited documents. It will be
   clearly understood that, although a number of prior art publications may be referred to
   herein; this reference does not constitute an admission that any of these documents form part
 5 of the common general knowledge in the art, in New Zealand or in any other country.
   Object of the Invention
   It is an object of the invention to provide bracket assembly and method of installation that
10 ameliorates some of the disadvantages and limitations of the known art or at least provide the
   public with a useful choice.
   Summary of Invention
15 In a first aspect the invention resides in a bracket assembly for connecting or linking an
   overhead roof structure to below roof structure elements of a building, the below roof
   structure elements including a wall having a top plate member or ceiling support structure,
   the bracket assembly comprising overhead fixing members, a bracket member, bearing
   member, sleeve member, and below roof structure fastener, being interconnected and
20 fastened together wherein one end of the bracket member is connectable to the overhead
   fixing members to the overhead roof structure and the other end of the bracket member is
   connectable to below roof structure fastener which is connectable to the below roof structure,
   with the bearing member and sleeve member being located and connected between the
   bracket member and the below roof structure such that the bracket member rests without
25 loading on the bearing member which then rests on the sleeve member which when in use
   rests without loading on the below roof structure, being adapted to provide structural
   integrity between the below roof structure and overhead structure.
   Preferably the below roof structure includes a wall having a top plate member.
30
   Preferably, the sleeve member spaces the bearing member from the top plate member.
    Preferably the bracket member is a truncated V shape in cross section.

                                                  -3
   Preferably at least one fastener is applied from a top of the bracket member to connect to the
   top plate member to hold and connect in between, a bracket member, bearing member,
   washer, and sleeve member.
 5
   Preferably the at least one fastener abuts a mounting plinth member having a central raised
   portion with a central aperture and an outer periphery mounting portion whereby a lower end
   of the sleeve rests on the central raised portion and the periphery portion is fastened to the
   top plate member.
10
   Alternatively there are upper and lower fasteners whereby the upper fastener connects the
   bracket member to the bearing member and sleeve member, and the lower fastener connects
   the sleeve member to the top plate member.
15 Preferably the sleeve member is an elongate member having a length with ends and width
   wherein the width is selected to be less than a diameter of a hole made through the ceiling
   tile but greater than the diameter of a hole through the top plate member wherein the sleeve
   member is hollow having an internal thread to allow the upper and lower fasteners to connect
   therein at each end.
20
   Preferably the overhead fixing members are connected to link members 27, which are
   connected to the bracket member wherein the link members are elongate members having a
   length and width and the overhead fixing members have a foot portion and angled portion
   wherein the foot portion is fixable to the overhead structure and the angled portion is
25 attachable to the link member.
   Preferably the link member includes adjustment means to allow the length of link member to
   be varied and the assembly includes two overhead fixing members and two link members.
30 Preferably the link member has a shape selected from a solid timber member, angle member
   or box section and the upper and lower fastening means include bolt members.

                                                  -4
   Preferably the bracket and overhead fixing members are formed of elongate plate like
   members.
   Alternatively, the below roof structure includes a ceiling support structure having a ceiling
 5 grid support frame suspended from the overhead roof structure with ceiling tiles supported
   on or by the ceiling grid support frame.
   Preferably, the sleeve member spaces the bearing member from the below roof structure
   fastener and below roof structure.
10
   Preferably the bracket member comprises a truncated V shape body in cross section wherein
   there are two bodies forming a cross shape in plan view.
   Preferably at least one fastener is applied from a top of the bracket member to connect to the
15 below roof structure fastener to hold and connect in between, a bracket member, bearing
   member, washer, and sleeve member.
   Preferably the below roof structure fastener includes a grid connecting member having a
   body comprising an elongate member having a U shaped cross section with side walls, sized
20 and adapted to downwardly slide over at least a portion of a ceiling grid support frame and
   be fastened thereto through the side walls and to part of the ceiling grid support frame.
   Preferably the body of the below roof structure fastener is shaped as a cross shaped member
   forming a central point with aperture for the fastener to be inserted there through to fasten
25 the below roof structure fastener to the rest of the bracket assembly.
   Preferably the sleeve member is an upright elongate member having a length with ends and
   width wherein the width is selected to be greater than the diameter of a hole through the
   below roof structure wherein the sleeve member is hollow having an internal thread to allow
30 upper and lower fasteners to connect therein at each end.
   Preferably the overhead fixing members are connected to link members 27, which are
   connected to the bracket member wherein the link members are elongate members having a

                                                -5
   length and width and the overhead fixing members have a foot portion and angled portion
   wherein the foot portion is fixable to the overhead structure and the angled portion is
   attachable to the link member.
 5 Preferably the link member includes adjustment means to allow the length of link member to
   be varied and the assembly includes two overhead fixing members and two link members.
   Preferably the link member has a shape selected from a solid timber member, angle member
   or box section.
10
   In a second aspect the invention resides in a bracket assembly for connecting or linking a
   roof structure to other elements of a building including a wall having a top plate member,
   the bracket assembly comprising a bracket member, bearing member, sleeve member,
   overhead fixing members being interconnected together wherein one end of the bracket
15 member is connectable to the overhead fixing members to the overhead structure and the
   other end of the bracket member is connectable to the top plate member of a wall, with the
   bearing member and sleeve member being located and connected between the bracket and
   the top plate member such that the bracket member rests without loading on the bearing
   member which then rests on the sleeve member which when in use rests without loading on
20 the top plate member, being adapted to provide structural integrity between the wall and
   overhead structure and to not be connected to a ceiling structure.
   Preferably the bracket member is a truncated V shape in cross section.
25 Preferably, the sleeve member spaces the bearing member from the top plate member.
   Preferably at least one fastener is applied from a top of the assembly to connect to the top
   plate member to hold and connect in between, a bracket member, bearing member, washer,
   and sleeve member.
30
   Preferably the at least one fastener abuts a mounting plinth member having a central raised
   portion with a central aperture and an outer periphery mounting portion whereby a lower end

                                                   -6
   of the sleeve rests on the central raised portion and the periphery portion is fastened to the
   top plate member.
   Preferably there are upper and lower fasteners whereby the upper fastener connects the
 5 bracket member to the bearing member and sleeve member, and the lower fastener connects
   the sleeve member to the top plate member.
   Preferably the sleeve member is an upright elongate member having a length with ends and
   width wherein the width is selected to be less than a diameter of a hole made through the
10 ceiling tile but greater than the diameter of a hole through the top plate member wherein the
   sleeve member is hollow having an internal thread to allow the upper and lower fasteners to
   connect therein at each end.
   Preferably the overhead fixing members are connected to link members 27, which are
15 connected to the bracket member wherein the link members are elongate members having a
   length and width and the overhead fixing members have a foot portion and angled portion
   wherein the foot portion is fixable to the overhead structure and the angled portion is
   attachable to the link member.
20 Preferably the link member includes adjustment means to allow the length of link member to
   be varied and the assembly includes two overhead fixing members and two link members.
   Preferably the link member has a shape selected from a solid timber member, angle member
   or box section.
25
   Preferably the upper and lower fastening means include bolt members and the bracket and
   overhead fixing members are formed of elongate plate like members.
   In a third aspect the invention resides in a method of installing or linking a wall to overhead
30 structure with a bracket assembly as disclosed in the second aspect, comprising the following
   steps of:
       -   drilling hole in ceiling tile 13 of one diameter and another hole of a smaller diameter
           in top plate member 7 to ensure the assembly does not contact a ceiling structure;

                                                    -7
       -    upwardly inserting lower fastener 24 with spring washer 22 to protrude there from
            the ceiling tile 13;
       -    sliding down sleeve member 20 onto top of top plate member 7;
       -    screw lower fastener 24 into sleeve member 20;
 5     -    sliding upper fastener 15 downwardly through middle portion 27 of bracket 16;
       -    upwardly sliding bearing member 18 to fastener to abut underside of middle portion
            27;
       -    upwardly sliding washer 19 onto upper fastener 15 abutting the bearing member 18;
       -    screw upper fastener 15 downwardly into protruding end of sleeve member 20;
10     -    drilling and fastening foot 29 of overhead fixing members 26 to overhead structure 2
       -    attaching link member 27 to angled portion 30 and to wing members 28.
   In a fourth aspect the invention resides in a method of installing or linking a wall to
   overhead structure with a bracket assembly as disclosed in the second aspect, comprising the
15 following steps of:
       -    drill hole in ceiling tile 13 of one diameter and another hole of a smaller diameter in
            top plate member 7 to ensure the assembly does not contact a ceiling structure 10;
       -    arrange sleeve member 20 downwardly into the one diameter, followed by washer 19,
20          followed by bearing member 18 followed by the bracket 16;
       -    insert and screw, a screw downwardly to attach to top plate member 7;
       -    drill and fasten foot 29 of overhead fixing members 26 to overhead structure 2
       -    attach link member 27 to angled portion 30 and to wing members 28.
25 In a fifth aspect the invention resides in a bracket assembly for connecting a roof structure to
   other elements of a building including a ceiling structure comprising a ceiling grid
   supporting ceiling tiles, the bracket assembly comprising overhead fixing members, a
   bracket member, bearing member, sleeve member and ceiling grid connecting member,
   being interconnected together wherein one end of the bracket member is connectable to the
30 overhead fixing members which are connected to the overhead structure and the other end of
   the bracket member is connectable to the ceiling grid connecting member, with the bearing
   member and sleeve member being located and connected between the bracket and the ceiling
   grid connecting member such that the bracket member rests without loading on the bearing

                                                 -8
   member which then rests on the sleeve member which when in use rests without loading on
   the ceiling grid connecting member, being adapted to provide structural integrity between the
   ceiling structure and overhead structure and to not be connected to a wall structure.
 5 Preferably the bracket member is a truncated V shape in cross section.
   Preferably, the sleeve member spaces the bearing member from the grid connection member.
   Preferably ceiling grid connecting member is a body shaped as a cross, with a U shaped
10 cross section with side walls, whereby fasteners can be attached through the side walls
   through the ceiling grid.
   Preferably the sleeve member is an elongate member having a length with ends and width
   wherein the width or diameter is selected to be greater than the diameter of a hole through
   the grid connection member wherein the sleeve member is hollow having an internal thread
15 to allow the upper and lower fasteners to connect therein at each end.
   Preferably the overhead fixing members are connected to link members 27, which are
   connected to the bracket member wherein the link members are elongate members having a
   length and width and the overhead fixing members have a foot portion and angled portion
20 wherein the foot portion is fixable to the overhead structure and the angled portion is
   attachable to the link member.
   Preferably the link member includes adjustment means to allow the length of link member to
   be varied.
25
   Preferably the assembly includes two overhead fixing members and two link members.
   Preferably the link member has a shape selected from a solid timber member, angle member
   or box section.
30

                                                  -9
   In a sixth aspect the invention resides in a method of installing or linking a below roof
   structure such as a ceiling grid support frame to an overhead structure with a bracket
   assembly as disclosed in the first aspect, comprising the following steps of:
       -   fix overhead fixing members to the overhead roof structure;
 5     -   assemble bracket members to bearing member and sleeve member to below roof
           structure fastener;
       -   fasten below roof structure fastener to the ceiling grid support frame
       -   fasten assembly from second step to the overhead fixing members.
10 A bracket assembly for connecting or linking an overhead roof structure to below roof
   structure elements of a building, the below roof structure elements including a wall having a
   top plate member or ceiling support structure, the bracket assembly comprising a bracket
   member being interconnectable and fastenable to the overhead roof structure and below roof
   structure wherein one end of the bracket member is connectable to the overhead fixing
15 members to the overhead roof structure and the other end of the bracket member is
   connectable to below roof structure fastener which is connectable to the below roof structure
   being adapted to provide structural integrity between the below roof structure and overdue
   roof structure, wherein the bracket member comprises a substantially truncated V shape body
   in cross section wherein there are two bodies forming a cross shape in plan view.
20
   Preferably the bearing member and sleeve member are located and connected between the
   bracket member and the below roof structure such that the bracket member rests without
   loading on the bearing member which then rests on the sleeve member which when in use
   rests without loading on the below roof structure.
25
   Preferably the bracket assembly includes the below roof structure includes a wall having a
   top plate member, the sleeve member spaces the bearing member from the top plate member.
   Preferably at least one fastener is applied from a top of the bracket member to connect to the
30 top plate member to hold and connect in between, a bracket member, bearing member,
   washer, and sleeve member.

                                                -10
   Preferably the at least one fastener abuts a mounting plinth member having a central raised
   portion with a central aperture and an outer periphery mounting portion whereby a lower end
   of the sleeve rests on the central raised portion and the periphery portion is fastened to the
   top plate member.
 5
   Preferably there are upper and lower fasteners whereby the upper fastener connects the
   bracket member to the bearing member and sleeve member, and the lower fastener connects
   the sleeve member to the top plate member.
10 Preferably the sleeve member is an elongate member having a length with ends and width
   wherein the width is selected to be less than a diameter of a hole made through the ceiling
   tile but greater than the diameter of a hole through the top plate member wherein the sleeve
   member is hollow having an internal thread to allow the upper and lower fasteners to connect
   therein at each end.
15
   Preferably the overhead fixing members are connected to link members 27, which are
    connected to the bracket member wherein the link members are elongate members having a
   length and width and the overhead fixing members have a foot portion and angled portion
   wherein the foot portion is fixable to the overhead structure and the angled portion is
20  attachable to the link member and the link member includes adjustment means to allow the
    length of link member to be varied and the assembly includes two overhead fixing members
    and two link members.
    Preferably the link member has a shape selected from a solid timber member, angle member
25  or box section and the upper and lower fastening means include bolt members.
    Preferably the bracket and overhead fixing members are formed of elongate plate like
    members.
30  Preferably the below roof structure includes a ceiling support structure having a ceiling grid
    support frame suspended from the overhead roof structure with ceiling tiles supported on or
    by the ceiling grid support frame.

                                                 - 11
   Preferably the sleeve member spaces the bearing member from the below roof structure
   fastener and below roof structure.
   Preferably at least one fastener is applied from a top of the bracket member to connect to the
 5 below roof structure fastener to hold and connect in between, a bracket member, bearing
   member, washer, and sleeve member.
   Preferably the below roof structure fastener includes a ceiling grid connecting member
   having a body comprising an elongate member having a U shaped cross section with side
10 walls, sized and adapted to downwardly slide over at least a portion of a ceiling grid support
   frame and be fastened thereto through the side walls and to part of the ceiling grid support
   frame.
   Preferably the body of the below roof structure fastener is shaped as a cross shaped member
15 forming a central point with aperture for the fastener to be inserted there through to fasten
   the below roof structure fastener to the rest of the bracket assembly.
   Preferably sleeve member is an upright elongate member having a length with ends and
   width wherein the width is selected to be greater than the diameter of a hole through the
20 below roof structure wherein the sleeve member is hollow having an internal thread to allow
   upper and lower fasteners to connect therein at each end.
   Preferably the overhead fixing members are connected to link members 27, which are
   connected to the bracket member wherein the link members are elongate members having a
25 length and width and the overhead fixing members have a foot portion and angled portion
   wherein the foot portion is fixable to the overhead structure and the angled portion is
   attachable to the link member.
   Preferably the link member includes adjustment means to allow the length of link member to
30 be varied and the assembly includes two overhead fixing members and two link members
   and the link member has a shape selected from a solid timber member, angle member or box
   section.

                                                 -12
   Preferably a method of installing or linking a wall to overhead structure with a bracket
   assembly, comprising the following steps of:
       -  drilling hole in ceiling tile 13 of one diameter and another hole of a smaller diameter
 5        in top plate member 7 to ensure the assembly does not contact a ceiling structure;
       -  upwardly inserting lower fastener 24 with spring washer 22 to protrude there from
          the ceiling tile 13;
       -  sliding down sleeve member 20 onto top of top plate member 7;
       -  screw lower fastener 24 into sleeve member 20;
10     -  sliding upper fastener 15 downwardly through middle portion 27 of bracket member
           16;
       -  upwardly sliding bearing member 18 to fastener to abut underside of middle portion
          27;
       -  upwardly sliding washer 19 onto upper fastener 15 abutting the bearing member 18;
15     -  screw upper fastener 15 downwardly into protruding end of sleeve member 20;
       -  drilling and fastening foot 29 of overhead fixing members 26 to overhead structure 2
       -  attaching link member 27 to angled portion 30 and to wing members 28.
   Preferably a method of installing or linking a wall to overhead structure with a bracket
20 assembly, comprising the following steps of:
       -  drill hole in ceiling tile 13 of one diameter and another hole of a smaller diameter in
          top plate member 7 to ensure the assembly does not contact a ceiling structure 10;
       -   arrange sleeve member 20 downwardly into the one diameter, followed by washer 19,
25        followed by bearing member 18 followed by the bracket member 16;
       -   insert and screw, a screw downwardly to attach to top plate member 7;
       -   drill and fasten foot 29 of overhead fixing members 26 to overhead structure 2
       -   attach link member 27 to angled portion 30 and to wing members 28.
30 Preferably a method of installing or linking a below roof structure such as a ceiling grid
   support frame to an overhead structure with a bracket assembly as claimed in claim 1,
   comprising the following steps of:

                                                 - 13
       -   fix overhead fixing members to the overhead roof structure;
       -   assemble bracket members to below roof structure fastener;
       -   fasten below roof structure fastener to the ceiling grid support frame
       -   fasten bracket assembly to the overhead fixing members.
 5
   To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in construction and
   widely differing embodiments and application of the invention will suggest themselves
   without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. The
   disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely illustrative and are not intended to be
10 limiting.
   Brief Description
   The invention will now be described, by way of example only, by reference to the
   accompanying drawings:
15 Figure 1 is a schematic side view of a bracket assembly in accordance with a first preferred
   embodiment of the invention.
   Figure 2 is a close up perspective view of one end of the bracket assembly of figure 1.
   Figure 3 is a perspective view of a lower portion of the bracket assembly of figure 1.
   Figure 4 is a cross sectional side view of the bracket assembly of figure 3
20 Figure 5 is an exploded perspective view of the parts of the bracket assembly of figure 3
   Figure 6 is a side view of the parts of the bracket assembly of figure 5.
   Figure 7 is a perspective view of another embodiment of the invention
   Figure 8 is a cross sectional view relating to figure 7
   Figure 9 is a cross section view or side elevation without the ceiling and top plate
25 Figure 10 is a top plan view relating to figure 9
   Figure 11 is a side end view or end elevation relating to figure 9
   Figure 12 is a side view of the ceiling bracket
   Figure 13 is an exploded perspective view of the parts of another embodiment of the bracket
30 assembly
   Figure 14 is a side view of the parts of the bracket assembly of figure 13.
   Figure 15 is a perspective view of the assembled parts of figure 13

                                                - 14
   Figure 16 is a cross sectional view relating to figure 15
   Figure 17 is a perspective schematic of yet another embodiment of the bracket assembly
   showing a ceiling grid connection and extra arms to the bracket member to connect to an
   overhead structure.
 5 Figure 18 is a side view of the bracket assembly of figure 17
   Figure 19 is top plan view of the bracket assembly of figure 17.
   Description of Drawings
   The following description will describe the invention in relation to preferred embodiments of
10 the invention, namely a bracket assembly 1 and method of installation as shown in figures 1
    19 which can used to connect between an overhead structure to a below roof structure such
   as a wall or ceiling grid support frame. The invention is in no way limited to these preferred
   embodiments as they are purely to exemplify the invention only and that possible variations
   and modifications would be readily apparent without departing from the scope of the
15 invention.
   The bracket assembly 1 is arranged and constructed to connect or locate or link from an
   overhead structure (eg roof) and be connectively supported or rested there on without
   significant downward loading, by a below roof or overhead structure element(s) which
20 includes a wall structure such as a partition rather than a ceiling structure or by a ceiling
   structure rather than the wall structure.
   As shown in figures 1-6 bracket assembly 1 is adapted to be removably affixed between and
   to, an overhead structure 2 and wall structure 3 to provide structural integrity there between
25 especially if the building, wall and overhead structure is meant to stay together for a limited
   period in a limited capacity in response to an extreme even like storms or earthquakes and
   not to be connected to a ceiling structure. As seen in figure 1 the overhead structure 2 which
   can be for example a substantially horizontally oriented member comprising a floor or roof
    slab which includes a lower surface 4 facing a top of the wall structure 3. Wall structure 3
30  can be for example a partition wall comprising a horizontally mounted top plate member 7
   with vertical dry wall facing panel members 8. Typically a ceiling 10 is suspended from the
    lower surface 4 to rest on top of an outer or top surface 12 of top plate members 7. Ceiling

                                                 - 15
   10 comprises abutting panels or tiles 13 which are located and or affixed to outside surface 9
   of the top plate member 7.
   Wall to overhead structure bracket assembly 1 as seen in figures 3-6 includes but is not
 5 limited to the following components of: an upper fastening means in the form of upper
   fastener 15, a bracket member16, bearing member 18, washer member 19, sleeve member
   20, spring washer 22, lower fastening means 24 in the form of a lower fastener 24. Figures 1
   and 2 show further components of the assembly 1, which include overhead fixing members
   26 and link members 27.
10
   Upper and lower fasteners 15 and 24, for example can be threaded bolts which are adapted to
   threadingly engage with sleeve 2. Sleeve member 20 is tubular having a length with ends,
   with an internal thread, having the ends adapted to receive the upper and lower fasteners 15
   & 24. Bracket member 16 is shaped from plate like strip member formed as a truncated V
15 shape in cross section having a middle horizontal portion 27 with outwardly splayed wing
   portions 28 on each side of middle horizontal portion 27.
   Bearing member 18 is cylindrically shaped with a certain diameter, which is formed of a
   flexible resilient material like for example rubber to allow the middle portion of the bracket
20 member to bear and be cushioned somewhat thereon.
   Overhead fixing members 26 are shaped having a foot portion 29 being horizontal in
   orientation when in use, leading to an angled portion 30. Link members 27 are each shaped
   as elongate members having ends which need to structurally interconnected overhead fixing
25 members 26 to the bracket member 16. One end is adapted to be removably connected to
   one angled portion 30 and the other end, to one wing portion 28. Each foot portion 29 is
   adapted to be affixed to lower surface 4 of overhead structure 2. In this example a fastener
   such as a bolt 31 is can be used to fasten the foot portion 29 to the overhead structure 2.
30 As shown in the figures, upper fastener means 15 is located from the top, through an aperture
   in the middle portion 27 of bracket member 16.          Underneath middle portion 27 bearing
   member 18 rests directly on washer member 19 which is smaller in diameter that the
   diameter of bearing member 18. Underneath washer 19 the sleeve member 20 is located. In

                                               -16
   this example the diameter of washer 19 is greater than a diameter of sleeve member 20.
   Underneath the sleeve member 20 but underneath a lower surface of the top plate member 7,
   there is spring washer 22 followed by lower fastener 24. In this example spring washer 22 is
   of smaller diameter than washer 19.
 5
   As shown in figure 4 for the assembly to be attached to top plate member 7, there needs to be
   an aperture drilled into the top plate member 7 having a diameter larger than sleeve member
   20 forming a peripheral gap 35 there between. This gap 35 is designed to keep the assembly
   1 separate from a ceiling structure or ceiling tiles 13. This means that the assembly 1 is
10 affixed or connected only to the top plate member and not the ceiling structure or tiles. A
   lower end of sleeve member 20 rests on the top of the top plate member 7 with lower
   fastening means 24 located underneath the top plate to upwardly protrude there through and
   threadingly into a lower end of sleeve member 20. The length 19 of sleeve member 20 is
   selected to be greater (eg 28mm) than the thickness of ceiling tiles 13 thereby spacing or
15 keeping the bearing member 18 and washer 19 spaced above the top surface of the ceiling
   tiles 13.
   Overhead fixing members 26 can have at least one aperture for fixing or several apertures
   26a to allow multiple fixing into lower surface 4 or to allow for different distances between
20 overhead structure 2 to the partition or for differences in levels of the lower surface and
   partition.
   Figures 7-12 relate to another embodiment of the invention where the bottom fixing is
   slightly different but that the other components are the same as before having the same
25 component numbers but is designed to rest on top of and be fixed to top plate member 7.
   The bottom fixing now utilizes a mounting plinth member 40 which is a circular plate like
   member with a raised central portion 41 sloping or dropping down to an outer peripheral
   mounting portion 42 having apertures 43 for suitable fixing devices 44. The bottom or lower
   portion of the sleeve 20 rests on and/or is affixed to the central portion 41 either from
30 fastener 15 or with a separately upwardly directed fastener.    Underneath the raised central
   portion 41 the recessed space is designed to allow fixing to be located there within a space
   between the top surface of the top plate member 7 and the sleeve 20. Fixing devices 44 are
   downwardly inserted through apertures 43 through another aperture in top plate member 7 to

                                                 - 17
   poke through and be affixed if a bolt with at least one nut or if a screw they are threading
   engaged to the top plate member 7.       An extra washer 45 is shown similar to washer 19 but
   placed under a head of fastener 15 abutting a top surface of bracket member 16.
 5 Figures 13-16 show yet another variation as disclosed in previous drawings 1-12 especially
   figure 3, whereas this time there is a washer 19A (eg 3mmm steel washer) between bolt 15
   (under its head) and an upper surface of bracket 16. Also spring washer is replaced with an
   internal tooth lock washer 22A. The other components of the assembly are similar to that
   already disclosed in this specification.
10
   Figures 17-19 show a further variation in the bracket assembly 1 which is adapted to
   connect at its lower end instead of, to a top of a wall but to a below roof structure element
   which includes a ceiling grid support frame which supports ceiling tiles without being
   connected or singularly supported by or to the wall. The ceiling grid support frame can be
15 hung or suspended by cable or wire to the roof or overhead structure.
   This bracket assembly includes at its upper in use end, bracket member 16 having instead of
   being shaped from a single plate like strip member formed as a truncated V shape in cross
   section having a middle horizontal portion 27 with outwardly splayed wing portions 28 on
20 each side of middle horizontal portion 27 forming a pair of opposing arms, there can be two
   truncated V shapes ie an second truncated V shape thereby giving in total as seen more
   clearly in top plan view of figure 19, to show four arms spaced equidistant from a central
   point occupied by horizontal portion 17. Similar to the single truncated V shape of the other
   bracket assembly, the two truncated V shape also includes central aperture for the insertion
25 of a fastener there through.
   At the lower end of the bracket assembly, there included a below roof structure fastener in
   the form of a ceiling grid connecting member 50 which is bolted through a bottom of ceiling
   grid connecting member 50 through sleeve 20 rubber block 18 upwardly to capture both
30 bracket members 16 and washer 19A. Ceiling grid connecting member 50 is shaped of a
   body having a downwardly facing U cross section with side walls, being shaped to match the
   intersection of a top of a ceiling grid support frame such as in plan view cross shape as
   shown having arms 51 equally spaced from a centre. The body of the ceiling grid connecting

                                                  - 18
   member 50 is shaped as a cross shaped member forming a central point with aperture for the
   fastener to be inserted there through to fasten the below roof structure fastener to the rest of
   the assembly and or to the below roof structure including ceiling grid support frame.
 5 Ceiling grid connecting member 50 can be attached to the ceiling grid support frame by
   fasteners extending through apertures 53 in the side walls.         Other components such as
   overhead fixing members 26, sleeve members 20, bearing members 18, washers and link
   members 27 etc as previously disclosed are also included with this bracket assembly for use
   with a ceiling grid.
10
   One Method of installation
       -   drill hole in ceiling tile 13 of one diameter and another at least one hole of a smaller
           diameter in top plate member 7 to ensure the assembly does not contact a ceiling
           structure;
15     -   upwardly insert lower fastener 24 with spring washer 22 to protrude there from the
           ceiling tile 13;
       -   slide down sleeve member 20 onto top of top plate member 7;
       -   screw lower fastener 24 into sleeve member 20;
       -   slide other fastener 15 downwardly through middle portion 27 of bracket 16;
20     -   upwardly slide bearing member 18 to fastener to abut underside of middle portion 27;
       -   upwardly slide washer 19 onto the upper fastener 15 abutting the bearing member 18;
       -   screw upper fastening means 15 downwardly into protruding end of sleeve member
           20;
       -   drill and fasten foot 29 of overhead fixing members 26 to overhead structure 2
25     -   attach link member 27 to angled portion 30 and to wing members 28.
30 Another Method
   In another aspect the invention resides in a method of installing or linking a wall to overhead
   structure with a bracket assembly as disclosed in the second aspect, comprising the following
   steps of:

                                                  - 19
       -   drill hole in ceiling tile 13 of one diameter and another hole of a smaller diameter in
           top plate member 7 to ensure the assembly does not contact a ceiling structure 10;
       -   arrange sleeve member 20 downwardly into the one diameter, followed by washer 19,
 5         followed by bearing member 18 followed by the bracket 16;
       -   insert and screw, a screw downwardly to attach to top plate member 7;
       -   drill and fasten foot 29 of overhead fixing members 26 to overhead structure 2
           attach link member 27 to angled portion 30 and to wing members 28.
10 Yet Another Method
   In yet another aspect the invention resides in a method of installing or linking a below roof
   structure such as a ceiling grid support frame to an overhead structure with a bracket
   assembly as disclosed in the first aspect, comprising the following steps of:
       -   fix overhead fixing members to the overhead roof structure;
15     -   assemble bracket members to bearing member and sleeve member to below roof
           structure fastener;
       -   fasten below roof structure fastener to the ceiling grid support frame
       -   fasten assembly from second step to the overhead fixing members.
20 Variations to these methods are also possible such as for example, firstly assembling the
   bracket 16 with upper fastener 15, bearing member 18, washer 19 and sleeve member 20
   before upwardly screwing the lower fastener 24 with its washer 22. Additionally the method
   may include removing or not installing one wall lining 8 or at least part thereof, to gain
   access to underneath the top plate member 7 to allow for screwing a bolt/lower fastener 24
25 upwardly.
   In the method for the ceiling grid support frame this can be varied such as for example by
   assembly of the bracket member with bearing member and sleeve member before fixing the
   overhead members or fastening to the ceiling grid support frame before fixing the overhead
30 members.
   Other variation include just using one fastener 15 to extend right through the bracket and top
   plate member 7 or if using a plinth member 40 as seen in figures 7-12 then plinth member

                                                  - 20
   can be upward fastened separately by fastener 15 to a lower end of sleeve 20 and then be
   separately fastened downwardly to top plate member 7.
   Second method of installation
 5 For a retrofit situation or even a new build, instead of upper and lower fasteners 15 & 24, one
   can use just one fastener applied from the top by first drilling down and then screwing in a
   screw rather than a bolt to self fasten the assembly 1 (eg the bracket, bearing member, sleeve
   member and washers to the top plate member 7. For example following is such a method
   including the following steps of:
10
       -   drill hole in ceiling tile 13 of one diameter and another hole of a smaller diameter in
           top plate member 7 to ensure the assembly does not contact a ceiling structure 10;
       -   arrange sleeve member 20 downwardly into the one diameter, followed by washer 19,
           followed by bearing member 18 followed by the bracket 16;
15     -   insert and screw, a screw downwardly to attach to top plate member 7;
       -   drill and fasten foot 29 of overhead fixing members 26 to overhead structure 2
       -   attach link member 27 to angled portion 30 and to wing members 28.
   Advantages
20
       a) Modest cost
       b) Easy to install
       c) Able to be adjusted
       d) Simple manufacture
25     e) Robust construction
       f) Can be torque adjusted
       g) Can be adapted for many different situations
       h) Can be retro-fitted or put in during construction
       i) No connection or support to or from a ceiling structure
30     j)  Can provide positive connection between wall structure and roof structure
       k) Can be designed to meet certain load or structural characteristics
       1) Assists in keeping wall and ceiling together during extreme events
       m) Various alternative bottom fixing are possible

                                                 -21
   Variations
   Throughout the description of this specification, the word "comprise" and variations of that
 5 word such as "comprising" and "comprises", are not intended to exclude other additives,
   components, integers or steps. The words "upper" and "lower" prefixing the fasteners are
   merely labels to indicate their in use positions and are not strictly necessary. Equally they
   can be called first and second. The washers 19 and 22 can be selected of any suitable size
   and can be as shown in the drawings as just one washer for each though any number of
10 washers is possible.
   By saying that certain structures or components of the bracket assembly "rest" or locate on
   another member or component is not meant to mean or imply significant 'vertical loading'
   but is merely meant to describe a connection which holds the components of the bracket
15 assembly together for a certain period of time.
   Bearing members 18 like the sleeve members 20 can be of any shape or length. For example
   bearing member 18 can be circular or square shaped of a material (eg rubber or some special
   plastic or possibly a biasing means like a spring) type to at least provide adequate bearing or
20 cushioning for the load from above down to the partition. Sleeve member 20 can be for
   example circular or hexagonal in cross sectional shape.
   Middle portion 27 can be for example 40mm in length 36 and wing portions 28, can be
   70mm long 37 and angled 38 at 45 degrees with respect to a substantially horizontal in use
25 plane. The angle portion 30 of overhead fixing members 26 can be angled with respect
   horizontal foot portion 29 to a similar angle 39 to that of the wing portion 28.
   Link members 27 can be of any suitable cross section and length such as for example timber
   4x2", box section, or angle etc, having means to allow connection to the overhead fixing
30 members 26 and bracket 16 eg screws bolts or rivets or welding. Additionally link members
   27 can be formed as or including means to allow adjustment or extension means.              For
   example adjustment can include telescoping members and/or slotted members to allow
   appropriate extension if required.

                                                 - 22
   It is acknowledged that the term 'comprise' may, under varying jurisdictions, be attributed
   with either an exclusive or an inclusive meaning. For the purpose of this specification, and
   unless otherwise noted, the term 'comprise' shall have an inclusive meaning - i.e. that it will
 5 be taken to mean an inclusion of not only the listed components it directly references, but
   also other non-specified components or elements. This rationale will also be used when the
   term 'comprised' or 'comprising' is used in relation to one or more steps in a method or
   process.
10 Ceiling grid connecting member 50 of figures 17-19 is shown as being in a cross shape,
   though other shapes are also possible depending on what grid layout is needed to be
   connected thereto.     Ceiling grid connecting member 50 can be formed of any suitable
   material such as pressed metal and can be attached to the ceiling grid by any suitable mans
   such as for example, bolting, riveting, screwing, friction fitting, clipped or welded.
15
   It will of course be realised that while the foregoing has been given by way of illustrative
   example of this invention, all such and other modifications and variations thereto as would
   be apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to fall within the broad scope and ambit
   of this invention as is hereinbefore described.
20
   It will also be understood that where a product, method or process as herein described or
   claimed and that is sold incomplete, as individual components, or as a "kit of Parts", that
   such exploitation will fall within the ambit of the invention.
   These and other features and characteristics of the present invention, as well as the method of
25 operation and functions of the related elements of structures and the combination of parts and
   economics of manufacture, will become more apparent upon consideration of the following
   description with reference to the accompanying drawings, all of which form part of this
   specification, wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various
   figures.
30 It is acknowledged that the term 'comprise' may, under varying jurisdictions, be attributed
   with either an exclusive or an inclusive meaning. For the purpose of this specification, and
   unless otherwise noted, the term 'comprise' shall have an inclusive meaning - i.e. that it will

                                                 - 23
   be taken to mean an inclusion of not only the listed components it directly references, but
   also other non-specified components or elements. This rationale will also be used when the
   term 'comprised' or 'comprising' is used in relation to one or more steps in a method or
   process.
 5 For purposes of the description hereinafter, the terms "upper", "lower", "right", 'left",
   "vertical", "horizontal", "top", "bottom", "lateral", "longitudinal", "side", "front", "rear" and
   derivatives thereof shall relate to the invention as it is oriented in the drawing figures.
   However it is to be understood that the invention may assume various alternative variations,
   except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific
10 devices illustrated in the attached drawings, and described in the following specification are
   simply exemplary embodiments of the invention.           Hence specific dimensions and other
   physical characteristics related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered
   as limiting.

                                                 - 24
    What we claim is:
    Claim 1: A bracket assembly for connecting or linking an overhead roof structure to below
    roof structure elements of a building, the below roof structure elements including a wall
    having a top plate member or ceiling support structure, the bracket assembly comprising a
 5  bracket member being interconnectable and fastenable to the overhead roof structure and
   below roof structure wherein one end of the bracket member is connectable to the overhead
    fixing members to the overhead roof structure and the other end of the bracket member is
    connectable to below roof structure fastener which is connectable to the below roof structure
   being adapted to provide structural integrity between the below roof structure and overdue
10 roof structure, wherein the bracket member comprises a substantially truncated V shape body
   in cross section wherein there are two bodies forming a cross shape in plan view.
    Claim 2: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein a bearing member and a sleeve
   member are located and connected between the bracket member and the below roof structure
15 such that the bracket member rests without loading on the bearing member which then rests
   on the sleeve member which when in use rests without loading on the below roof structure.
   Claim 3: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the bracket assembly includes
   the below roof structure which includes a wall having a top plate member, the sleeve
20 member spaces the bearing member from the top plate member.
   Claim 4: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 3 wherein at least one fastener is applied
   from a top of the bracket member to connect to the top plate member to hold and connect in
   between, a bracket member, bearing member, washer, and sleeve member.
25
   Claim 5: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 4 wherein the at least one fastener abuts
   a mounting plinth member having a central raised portion with a central aperture and an
   outer periphery mounting portion whereby a lower end of the sleeve rests on the central
   raised portion and the periphery portion is fastened to the top plate member.
30
   Claim 6: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 4 wherein there are upper and lower
   fasteners whereby the upper fastener connects the bracket member to the bearing member

                                                 -25
    and sleeve member, and the lower fastener connects the sleeve member to the top plate
   member.
    Claim 7: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 4 wherein the sleeve member is an
 5 elongate member having a length with ends and width wherein the width is selected to be
   less than a diameter of a hole made through the ceiling tile but greater than the diameter of a
   hole through the top plate member wherein the sleeve member is hollow having an internal
   thread to allow the upper and lower fasteners to connect therein at each end.
10 Claim 8: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 4 wherein the overhead fixing members
   are connected to link members 27, which are connected to the bracket member wherein the
   link members are elongate members having a length and width and the overhead fixing
   members have a foot portion and angled portion wherein the foot portion is fixable to the
   overhead structure and the angled portion is attachable to the link member and the link
15 member includes adjustment means to allow the length of link member to be varied and the
   assembly includes two overhead fixing members and two link members.
   Claim 9: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 8 wherein the link member has a shape
   selected from a solid timber member, angle member or box section and the upper and lower
20 fastening means include bolt members.
   Claim 10: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 9 wherein the bracket and overhead
   fixing members are formed of elongate plate like members.
25 Claim 11: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the below roof structure
   includes a ceiling support structure having a ceiling grid support frame suspended from the
   overhead roof structure with ceiling tiles supported on or by the ceiling grid support frame.
   Claim 12: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 11 wherein, the sleeve member spaces
30 the bearing member from the below roof structure fastener and below roof structure.
   Claim 13: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 12 wherein at least one fastener is
   applied from a top of the bracket member to connect to the below roof structure fastener to

                                                  -26
   hold and connect in between, a bracket member, bearing member, washer, and sleeve
   member.
   Claim 14: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 13 wherein the below roof structure
 5 fastener includes a ceiling grid connecting member having a body comprising an elongate
   member having a U shaped cross section with side walls, sized and adapted to downwardly
   slide over at least a portion of a ceiling grid support frame and be fastened thereto through
   the side walls and to part of the ceiling grid support frame.
10 Claim 15: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 14 wherein the body of the below roof
   structure fastener is shaped as a cross shaped member forming a central point with aperture
   for the fastener to be inserted there through to fasten the below roof structure fastener to the
   rest of the bracket assembly.
15 Claim 16: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 15 wherein the sleeve member is an
   upright elongate member having a length with ends and width wherein the width is selected
   to be greater than the diameter of a hole through the below roof structure wherein the sleeve
   member is hollow having an internal thread to allow upper and lower fasteners to connect
   therein at each end.
20
   Claim 17:     The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 16 wherein the overhead fixing
   members are connected to link members 27, which are connected to the bracket member
   wherein the link members are elongate members having a length and width and the overhead
   fixing members have a foot portion and angled portion wherein the foot portion is fixable td
25 the overhead structure and the angled portion is attachable to the link member.
    Claim 18: The bracket assembly as claimed in claim 17 wherein the link member includes
    adjustment means to allow the length of link member to be varied and the assembly includes
   two overhead fixing members and two link members and the link member has a shape
30  selected from a solid timber member, angle member or box section.
    Claim 19: A method of installing or linking a wall to overhead structure with a bracket
    assembly as claimed in claims 1-13, comprising the following steps of:

                                                  - 27
       -   drilling hole in ceiling tile 13 of one diameter and another hole of a smaller diameter
           in top plate member 7 to ensure the assembly does not contact a ceiling structure;
       -  upwardly inserting lower fastener 24 with spring washer 22 to protrude there from
          the ceiling tile 13;
 5     -   sliding down sleeve member 20 onto top of top plate member 7;
       -  screw lower fastener 24 into sleeve member 20;
       -  sliding upper fastener 15 downwardly through middle portion 27 of bracket member
           16;
       -  upwardly sliding bearing member 18 to fastener to abut underside of middle portion
10        27;
       -  upwardly sliding washer 19 onto upper fastener 15 abutting the bearing member 18;
       -  screw upper fastener 15 downwardly into protruding end of sleeve member 20;
       -  drilling and fastening foot 29 of overhead fixing members 26 to overhead structure 2
       -  attaching link member 27 to angled portion 30 and to wing members 28.
15
   Claim 20: A method of installing or linking a wall to overhead structure with a bracket
   assembly as claimed in claims 1-13, comprising the following steps of:
       -  drill hole in ceiling tile 13 of one diameter and another hole of a smaller diameter in
20        top plate member 7 to ensure the assembly does not contact a ceiling structure 10;
       -  arrange sleeve member 20 downwardly into the one diameter, followed by washer 19,
          followed by bearing member 18 followed by the bracket member 16;
       -  insert and screw, a screw downwardly to attach to top plate member 7;
       -  drill and fasten foot 29 of overhead fixing members 26 to overhead structure 2
25     -  attach link member 27 to angled portion 30 and to wing members 28.
   Claim 21: A method of installing or linking a below roof structure such as a ceiling grid
   support frame to an overhead structure with a bracket assembly as claimed in claim 1,
   comprising the following steps of:
30     -  fix overhead fixing members to the overhead roof structure;
       -  assemble bracket members to below roof structure fastener;
       -  fasten below roof structure fastener to the ceiling grid support frame
       -  fasten bracket assembly to the overhead fixing members.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
