            OPSIN-BINDING LIGANDS, COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF USE
                                              Abstract
      Compounds are disclosed that are useful for treating ophthalmic conditions caused by or
related to production of toxic visual cycle products that accumulate in the eye, such as dry adult
mascular degeneration, as well as conditions caused by or related to the misfolding of mutant
opsin proteins and/or the mis-localization of opsin proteins. Compositions of these compounds
alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents are also described, along with therapeutic
methods of using such compounds and/or compositions. Methods of synthesizing such agents
are also disclosed.

      OPSIN-BINDING LIGANDS, COMPOSITIONS
                       AND METHODS OF USE
         This application claims priority of U.S. provisional Patent Application
 Serial No. 61/565,009, filed 30 November 2011, the disclosure of which is
 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
       The present application is a divisional of AU 2012346214, the entire specification of which
is incorporated herein by cross-reference.
                              FIELD OF THE INVENTION
          The present invention relates to compounds and compositions thereof
  for use in the treatment and/or prevention of ophthalmic diseases as well as
  methods of using such compounds and/or compositions.
                         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           A diminished visual acuity or total loss of vision may result from a
   number of eye diseases or disorders caused by dysfunction of tissues or
   structures in the anterior segment of the eye and/or posterior segment of the
   eye. Of those that occur as a consequence of a dysfunction in the anterior
   segment, aberrations in the visual cycle are often involved, The visual cycle
   (also frequently referred to as the retinoid cycle) comprises a series of ight
   driven    and/or enzyme        catalyzed reactions whereby         a light-sensitive
   chromophore (called rhodopsin) is formed by covalent bonding between the
   protein opsin and the retinoid agent 11-cis-retinal and subsequently, upon
   exposure to light, the 11 -cis-retinal is converted to all-trans-retinal, which can
   then be regenerated into 11-cis-retinal to again interact with opsin. A number
   of visual, ophthalmic, problems can arise due to interference with this cycle. It
   is now understood that at least some of these problems are due to improper
   protein folding, such as that of the protein opsin.

             The main light and dark photoreceptor in the mammalian eye is the rod
    cell, which contains a folded membrane containing protein molecules that can
    be sensitive to light, the main one being opsin. Like other proteins present in
    mammalian cells, opsin is synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum (i.e., on
  5 ribosomes) of the cytoplasm and then conducted to the cell membrane of rod
    cells. In some cases, such as due to genetic defects and mutation of the opsin
    protein, opsin can exhibit improper folding to form a conformation that either
    fails to properly insert into the membrane of the rod cell or else inserts but
    then fails to properly react with 11-cis-retinal to form native rhodopsin. In
 10 either case, the result is moderate to severe interference with visual
    perception in the animal so afflicted.
             Among the diseases and conditions linked to improper opsin folding is
    retinitis pigmentosa (RP), a progressive ocular-neurodegenerative disease (or
15  group of diseases) that affects an estimated 1 to 2 million people worldwide.
    In RP, photoreceptor cells in the retina are damaged or destroyed, leading to
    loss of peripheral vision (i.e., tunnel vision) and subsequent partial or near
    total blindness.
20           In the American population the most common defect occurs as a result
    of replacement of a proline residue by a histidine residue at amino acid
    number 23 in the opsin polypeptide chain (dubbed "P23H"), caused by a
    mutation in the gene for opsin. The result is production of a destabilized form
    of the protein, which is misfolded and aggregates in the cytoplasm rather than
25  being transported to the cell surface. Like many other protein conformational
    diseases (PCDs), the clinically common P23H opsin mutant associated with
    autosomal dominant        RP is misfolded and      retained intracellularly. The
    aggregation of the misfolded protein is believed to result in photoreceptor
    damage and cell death.
30
             Recent studies have identified small molecules that stabilize misfolded
    mutant proteins associated with disease. Some of these, dubbed "chemical
    chaperones," stabilize proteins non-specifically. Examples of these include
    glycerol and trimethylamine oxide. These are not very desirable for treating
                                             2

   ophthalmic disease because such treatment usually requires high dosages
   that may cause toxic side effects. Other agents, dubbed "pharmacological
   chaperones," (which include native ligands and substrate analogs) act to
   stabilize the protein by binding to specific sites and have been identified for
 5 many misfolded proteins, e.g., G-protein coupled receptors. Opsin is an
   example of a G-protein coupled receptor and its canonical pharmacological
   chaperones include the class of compounds referred to as retinoids. Thus,
   certain retinoid compounds have been shown to stabilize mutant opsin
   proteins (see, for example, U.S. Patent Pub. 2004-0242704, as well as
10 Noorwez et al., J. Biol. Chem., 279(16): 16278-16284 (2004)).
            The visual cycle comprises a series of enzyme catalyzed reactions,
   usually initiated by a light impulse, whereby the visual chromophore of
   rhodopsin, consisting of opsin protein bound covalently to 11-cis-retinal, is
15 converted to an all-trans-isomer that is subsequently released from the
   activated rhodopsin to form opsin and the all-trans-retinal product. This part of
   the visual cycle occurs in the outer portion of the rod cells of the retina of the
   eye. Subsequent parts of the cycle occur in the retinal pigmented epithelium
   (RPE).     Components     of this cycle include various enzymes,         such as
20 dehydrogenases and isomerases, as well as transport proteins for conveying
   materials between the RPE and the rod cells.
            As a result of the visual cycle, various products are produced, called
   visual cycle products. One of these is all-trans-retinal produced in the rod cells
25 as a direct result of light impulses contacting the 11-cis-retinal moiety of
   rhodopsin. All-trans-retinal, after release from the activated rhodopsin, can be
   regenerated back into 11-cis-retinal or can react with an additional molecule
   of all-trans-retinal and a molecule of phosphatidylethanolamine to produce N
   retinylidene-N-retinylethanolamine      (dubbed    "A2E"),   an    orange-emitting
30 fluorophore that can subsequently collect in the rod cells and in the retina
   pigmented epithelium (RPE). As A2E builds up (as a normal consequence of
   the visual cycle) it can also be converted into lipofuscin, a toxic substance that
   has been implicated in several abnormalities, including ophthalmic conditions
                                             3

   such as wet and dry age related macular degeneration (ARMD). A2E can also
   prove toxic to the RPE and has been associated with dry ARMD.
           Because the build-up of toxic visual cycle products is a normal part of
 5 the physiological process, it is likely that all mammals, especially all humans,
   possess such an accumulation to some extent throughout life. However,
   during surgical procedures on the eye, especially on the retina, where strong
   light is required over an extended period, for example, near the end of
   cataract surgery and while implanting the new lens, these otherwise natural
10 processes can cause toxicity because of the build-up of natural products of
   the visual cycle. Additionally, excessive rhodopsin activation as a result of
   bright light stimulation can cause photoreceptor cell apoptosis via an AP-1
   transcription factor dependent mechanism. Because of this, there is a need
   for agents that can be administered prior to, during or after (or any
15 combination of these) the surgical process and that has the effect of inhibiting
   rhodopsin activation as well as reducing the production of visual cycle
   products that would otherwise accumulate and result in toxicity to the eye,
   especially to the retina.
20         The present invention answers this need by providing small molecules
   which noncovalently bind to opsin or mutated forms of opsin for treating
   and/or amelioration such conditions, if not preventing them completely.
   Importantly, such agents are not natural retinoids and thus are not tightly
   controlled for entrance into the rod cells, where mutated forms of opsin are
25 synthesized and/or visual cycle products otherwise accumulate. Therefore,
   such agents can essentially be titrated in as needed for facilitating the proper
   folding trafficking of mutated opsins to the cell membrane or prevention of
   rhodopsin activation that can lead to the excessive build-up of visual cycle
   products like all-trans-retinal that in turn can lead to toxic metabolic products.
30 Such compounds may compete with 11-cis-retinal to reduce all-trans-retinal
   by tying up the retinal binding pocket of opsin to prevent excessive all-trans
   retinal build up. Thus, the compounds provided by the present invention have
   the advantage that they do not directly inhibit the enzymatic processes by
   which 11-cis-retinal is produced in the eye (thus not contributing to retinal
                                              4

    degeneration). Instead, the formation of all-trans-retinal is limited and thereby
    the formation of A2E is reduced. Finally, by limiting the ability of 11 -cis-retinal
    to combine with opsin to form rhodopsin, rhodopsin activation caused by
    bright light stimulation especially during ophthalmic surgery is also diminished
  5 thus preventing the photocell death that results.
             Mislocalization of photoreceptor cell visual pigment proteins (opsins)
    can occur in various ocular diseases, and also with normal aging. In both
    cases the accumulation of mislocalized opsin leads to the decline in viability of
 10 photoreceptor cells. With time this mislocalized opsin accumulation leads to
    rod and cone cell death, retinal degeneration, and loss of vision. The present
    invention solves this problem by providing a method of correcting mislocalized
    opsin within a photoreceptor cell by contacting a mislocalized opsin protein
    with an opsin-binding agent that binds reversibly and/or non-covalently to said
15  mislocalized    opsin protein,   and    promotes the    appropriate   intracellular
    processing     and    transport of said     opsin protein.   This   correction    of
    mislocalization relieves photoreceptor cell stress, preventing decline in
    viability and death of photoreceptor cells in various diseases of vision loss,
    and in normal age-related decline in dim-light and peripheral rod-mediated
20  vision, central cone-mediated vision, and loss of night vision.
                          BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
25          In one aspect, the present invention provides compounds having the
    structure of Formula I, including pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates
    and hydrates thereof, and compositions of said compounds:
                                     R      R
                                    A                   Y
                                                        x
30
                                           Formula 1
                                              5

           wherein A, Ri, Rj and X-Y are as described elsewhere herein.
            In a related aspect, the present invention relates to a method of
   inhibiting the formation or accumulation of a visual cycle product, comprising
 5 contacting an opsin protein with a compound recited herein to inhibit formation
   of said visual cycle product relative to when said contacting does not occur.
            In a further aspect, the present invention relates to a method to reduce
   the light toxicity associated with ophthalmic surgery by preventing rhodopsin
10 regeneration during surgery to a mammalian eye and/or prevent or slow the
   formation of toxic visual cycle products by fractionally preventing rhodopsin
   formation during periods of light activation thereby providing a treatment of
   ocular conditions associated with the build up of visual products such as wet
   or dry ARMD.
15
            In yet a further aspect, the present invention relates to a method of
   correcting the proper folding and trafficking of mutated opsin proteins,
   comprising contacting a mutated opsin protein with a compound that stabilizes
   the proper three dimensional conformation of the protein relative to when said
20 contacting does not occur wherein the compound has the structure of Formula
   I including pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates and hydrates thereof.
            In one embodiment, the ligand selectively binds reversibly or non
   covalently to opsin. In another embodiment, the ligand binds at or near the
25 11-cis- retinal binding pocket of the opsin protein. In yet another embodiment,
   the ligand binds to the opsin protein so as to inhibit or slow the covalent
   binding of 11-cis-retinal to the opsin protein when the 11-cis-retinal is
   contacted with the opsin protein in the presence of the ligand. In yet another
   embodiment, the ligand binds to the opsin in the retinal binding pocket of
30 opsin protein or disrupts 11-cis-retinal binding to the retinal binding pocket of
   opsin. In yet another embodiment, the ligand binds to the opsin protein so as
   to inhibit covalent binding of 11-cis-retinal to the opsin protein. In yet another
   embodiment, the mammal is a human being.
                                             6

           In yet another embodiment, slowing or halting the progression of wet or
   dry ARMD is associated with reducing the level of a visual cycle product, for
   example, a visual cycle product formed from all-trans-retinal, such as
   lipofuscin   or N-retinylidine-N-retinylethanolamine    (A2E).   In   yet another
 5 embodiment slowing or halting the progression of RP is associated with
   correcting the folding of mutated opsins. In another embodiment, the
   administering is topical administration, local administration (e.g., intraocular or
   periocular injection or implant) or systemic administration (e.g., oral, injection).
   In yet another embodiment, the light toxicity is related to an ophthalmic
10 procedure     (e.g., ophthalmic surgery). In still another embodiment, the
   administering occurs prior to, during, or after the ophthalmic surgery.
           Mislocalization of photoreceptor cell visual pigment proteins (opsins)
   can occur in various ocular diseases, and also with normal aging. In such
15 cases the accumulation of mislocalized opsin leads to the decline in viability of
   photoreceptor cells. With time this mislocalized opsin accumulation leads to
   rod and cone cell death, retinal degeneration, and loss of vision.           In one
   aspect, the invention provides a method of correcting mislocalized opsin
   within a photoreceptor cell, comprising contacting a mislocalized opsin protein
20 with an opsin-binding agent that binds reversibly and/or non-covalently to said
   mislocalized opsin protein to promote the appropriate intracellular processing
   and transport of said opsin protein. This correction of mislocalization reduces
   photoreceptor cell stress, preventing photoreceptor cell decline in viability and
   death in various diseases of vision loss, and in normal age-related decline in
25 dim-light and peripheral rod-mediated vision, central cone-mediated vision,
   and loss of night vision.
           In various embodiments, the ocular protein mislocalization disorder is
   any one or more of wet or dry form of macular degeneration, retinitis
30 pigmentosa, a retinal or macular dystrophy, Stargardt's disease, Sorsby's
   dystrophy, autosomal dominant drusen, Best's dystrophy, peripherin mutation
   associate with macular dystrophy, dominant form of Stargart's disease, North
   Carolina macular dystrophy, light toxicity, retinitis pigmentosa, normal vision
   loss related aging and normal loss of night vision related to aging .
                                            7

            In still another embodiment, the method further involves administering
   to a mammal, preferably a human being, an effective amount of at least one
   additional agent selected from the group consisting of a proteasomal inhibitor,
   an autophagy inhibitor, a lysosomal inhibitor, an inhibitor of protein transport
 5 from the ER to the Golgi, an Hsp90 chaperone inhibitor, a heat shock
   response activator, a glycosidase inhibitor, and a histone deacetylase
   inhibitor. In yet another embodiment, the opsin binding ligand and the
   additional agent are administered simultaneously.
10          In still another embodiment, the opsin binding ligand and the additional
   agent are each incorporated into a composition that provides for their long
   term    release.    In  another embodiment,    the   composition is   part of a
   microsphere, nanosphere, nano emulsion or implant. In another embodiment,
   the composition further involves administering a mineral supplement, at least
15 one anti-inflammatory agent, such as a steroid (e.g., any one or more of
   cortisone,     hydrocortisone, prednisone,   prednisolone, methylprednisolone,
   triamcinolone, betamethasone, beclamethasone and dexamethasone), or at
   least one anti-oxidant, such as vitamin A, vitamin C and vitamin E. In various
   embodiments, the opsin binding ligand, the anti-inflammatory agent, and/or
20 the anti-oxidant are administered simultaneously.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
25         Figure 1 shows the increase in regeneration of 500 nm absorbing
   pigment upon treatment with retinal from P23H opsin that was treated with 20
   pM of p-ionone during mutant protein production relative to pigment formation
   in the presence of vehicle (DMSO) alone.
30
                                     DEFINITIONS
           As used throughout the disclosure, the following terms,           unless
   otherwise indicated, shall be understood to have the following meanings.
                                            8

             By "mislocalization" of a photoreceptor cell visual pigment protein (for
    example, opsin, especially human opsin) is meant that the synthesized protein
    is not found at the normal or appropriate cellular location.
  5          "Pharmacologic chaperones" refer to small molecular weight chemical
    compounds that interact with a protein (usually with a misfolded, or unfolded
    protein) in such a way as to alter the folding or confirmation of said protein.
     Such an interaction can have diverse consequences on the cellular fate of
    the protein, including but not limited to leading to increased stability and
10  increased levels of functional protein, increased stability and increased levels
    of non-functional protein, or decreased stability and decreased levels of
    functional or non-functional protein.
             "Productive chaperone" refers to a pharmacologic chaperone that when
15  interacting with a protein leads to an increased level of functional protein.
             "Counterproductive, shipwreck or destructive chaperone" refers to a
    pharmacologic chaperone that interacts with a protein (usually with a
    misfolded, or unfolded protein) and this interaction leads to a decreased
20  stability and/or decreased levels of functional or non-functional protein.
             By "proteasomal inhibitor" is meant a compound that reduces a
    proteasomal activity, such as the degradation of a ubiquinated protein.
25           By "autophagy inhibitor" is meant a compound that reduces the
    degradation of a cellular component by a cell in which the component is
    located.
             By "lysosomal inhibitor" is meant a compound that reduces the
30  intracellular digestion of macromolecules by a lysosome. In one embodiment,
    a lysosomal inhibitor decreases the proteolytic activity of a lysosome.
             By "Inhibitor of ER-Golgi protein transport" is meant a compound that
    reduces the transport of a protein from the ER (endoplasmic reticulum) to the
                                             9

   Golgi, or from the Golgi to the ER.
           By "HSP90 chaperone inhibitor" is meant a compound that reduces the
   chaperone activity of heat shock protein 90 (HSP90). In one embodiment, the
 5 inhibitor alters protein binding to an HSP90 ATP/ADP pocket.
           By "heat shock response activator" is meant a compound that
   increases the chaperone activity or expression of a heat shock pathway
   component. Heat shock pathway components include, but are not limited to,
10 HSP100, HSP90, HSP70, HASP60, HSP40 and small HSP family members.
           By "glycosidase inhibitor" is meant a compound that reduces the
   activity of an enzyme that cleaves a glycosidic bond.
15         By "histone deacetylase inhibitor" is meant a compound that reduces
   the activity of an enzyme that deacetylates a histone.
           By "reduces" or "increases" is meant a negative or positive alteration,
   respectively.    In particular embodiments, the alteration is by at least about
20 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, or 100% of the initial level of the protein produced in
   the absence of the opsin binding ligand.
           As used herein, the term "wild-type conformation" refers to the three
   dimensional conformation or shape of a protein that is free of mutations to its
25 amino acid sequence. For opsin, this means a protein free from mutations that
   cause misfiling, such as the mutation designated P23H (meaning that a
   proline is replaced by a histidine at residue 23 starting from the N-terminus).
   Opsin in a     "wild-type conformation" is capable of opsin biological function,
   including but not limited to, retinoid binding, visual cycle function, and
30 insertion into a photoreceptor membrane.
           By "agent" is meant a small compound (also called a "compound"),
   polypeptide, polynucleotide, or fragment thereof. The terms compound and
   agent are used interchangeably unless specifically stated otherwise herein for
                                           10

   a particular agent or compound.
           By "correcting the conformation" of a protein is meant inducing the
   protein to assume a conformation having at least one biological activity
 5 associated with a wild-type protein.
           By "misfolded opsin protein" is meant a protein whose tertiary structure
   differs from the conformation of a wild-type protein, such that the misfolded
   protein lacks one or more biological activities associated with the wild-type
10 protein.
           By "selectively binds" is meant a compound that recognizes and binds
   a polypeptide of the invention, such as opsin, but which does not substantially
   recognize and bind other molecules, especially non-opsin polypeptides, in a
15 sample, for example, a biological sample.
           By "effective amount" or "therapeutically effective amount" is meant a
   level of an agent sufficient to exert a physiological effect on a cell, tissue, or
   organ or a patient. As used herein, it is the amount sufficient to effect the
20 methods of the invention to achieve the desired result.
           By "pharmacological     chaperone" is meant a molecule that upon
   contacting a mutant protein is able to facilitate/stabilize the proper folding of
   the protein such that it acts and functions much more like wild type protein
25 than would be the case in the absence of the molecule.
           By "control" is meant a reference condition. For example, where a cell
   contacted with an agent of the invention is compared to a corresponding cell
   not contacted with the agent, the latter is the "control" or "control" cell.
30
           By "treat" is meant decrease, suppress, attenuate, diminish, arrest, or
   stabilize the development or progression of a disease, preferably an ocular
   disease, such as RP, AMD and/or light toxicity.
                                           11

            By "prevent" is meant reduce the risk that a subject will develop a
   condition, disease, or disorder, preferably an ocular disease, such as RP,
   AMD and/or light toxicity.
 5          By "competes for binding" is meant that a compound of the invention
   and an endogenous ligand are incapable of binding to a target at the same
   time.    Assays to measure competitive binding are known in the art, and
   include, measuring a dose dependent inhibition in binding of a compound of
   the invention and an endogenous ligand by measuring t1 /2, for example.
10
           A "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" is a salt formed from an acid or a
   basic group of one of the compounds of the invention. Illustrative salts
   include, but are not limited to, sulfate, citrate, acetate, oxalate, chloride,
   bromide, iodide, nitrate, bisulfate, phosphate, acid phosphate, isonicotinate,
15 lactate, salicylate,   acid citrate, tartrate,  oleate,  tannate,   pantothenate,
   bitartrate, ascorbate, succinate, maleate, gentisinate, fumarate, gluconate,
   glucaronate, saccharate, formate, benzoate, glutamate, methanesulfonate,
   ethanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, p-toluenesuifonate, and pamoate (i.e.,
    1,1'-methytene-bis-(2-hydroxy-3-naphthoate)) salts.
20
           The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" also refers to a salt
   prepared from a compound of the invention having an acidic functional group,
   such as a carboxylic acid functional group, and a pharmaceutically acceptable
   inorganic or organic base. Suitable bases include, but are not limited to,
25 hydroxides of alkali metals such as sodium, potassium,               and lithium;
   hydroxides of alkaline earth metal         such as calcium and magnesium;
   hydroxides of other metals, such as aluminum and zinc; ammonia, and
   organic amines, such as unsubstituted or hydroxy-substituted mono-, di-, or
   trialkylamines;   dicyclohexylamine;   tributyl  amine;   pyridine;   N-methyl-N
30 ethylamine; diethylamine; triethylamine; mono-, bis-, or tris-(2-hydroxy-lower
   alkylamines), such as mono-, bis-, or tris-(2-hydroxyethyl)- amine, 2-hydroxy
   tert-butylamine, or tris-(hydroxymethyl)methylamine, N, N,-di-lower alkyl-N
   (hydroxy lower alkyl)-amines,       such    as N,N-dimethyl-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)
   amine, or tri-(2-hydroxyethyl)amine; N-methyl-D-glucamine; and amino acids
                                           12

    such as arginine, lysine, and the like.
           The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" also refers to a salt
    prepared from a compound disclosed herein, e.g., a salt of a compound of
  5 Example 1 , having a basic functional group, such as an amino functional
    group, and a pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic acid. Suitable
    acids include, but are not limited to, hydrogen sulfate, citric acid, acetic acid,
    oxalic acid, hydrochloric acid, hydrogen bromide, hydrogen iodide, nitric acid,
    phosphoric acid, isonicotinic acid, lactic acid, salicylic acid, tartaric acid,
 10 ascorbic acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, besylic acid, fumaric acid, gluconic
    acid, glucaronic acid, saccharic acid, formic acid, benzoic acid, glutamic acid,
    methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, and p
    toluenesulfonic acid.
15         The term "pharmaceutically-acceptable excipient" as used herein
    means one or more compatible solid or liquid tiller, diluents or encapsulating
    substances that are suitable for administration into a human. The term
    "excipient" includes an      inert substance    added   to   a pharmacological
    composition to further facilitate administration of a compound. Examples of
20  excipients include    but are not limited     to calcium    carbonate,   calcium
    phosphate, various sugars and types of starch, cellulose derivatives, gelatin,
    vegetable oils and polyethylene glycols.
           The term "carrier" denotes an organic or inorganic ingredient, natural or
25  synthetic,  with  which    the  active ingredient   is combined      to facilitate
    administration.
           The term "parenteral" includes subcutaneous, intrathecal, intravenous,
    intramuscular, intraperitoneal, or infusion.
30
           The term "visual cycle product" refers to a chemical entity produced as
    a natural product of one or more reactions of the visual cycle (the reactive
    cycle whereby opsin protein binds 11-cis-retinal to form rhodopsin, which
    accepts a light impulse to convert 11-cis-retinal to all trans-retinal, which is
                                             13

    then released from the molecule to regenerate opsin protein with subsequent
    binding of a new 11-cis-retinal to regenerate rhodopsin). Such visual cycle
    products include, but are not limited to, all-trans-retinal, lipofuscin and A2E.
  5         The term "light toxicity" refers to any condition affecting vision that is
    associated with, related to, or caused by the production and/or accumulation
    of visual cycle products. Visual cycle products include, but are not limited to,
    all-trans-retinal, lipofuscin or A2E. In one particular embodiment, light toxicity
    is related to exposure of the eye to large amounts of light or to very high light
 10 intensity, occurring, for example, during a surgical procedure on the retina.
            The term "opsin" refers to an opsin protein, preferably a mammalian
    opsin protein, most preferably a human opsin protein.           In one embodiment,
    the opsin protein is in the wild-type (i.e., physiologically active) conformation.
15  One method of assaying for physiological activity is assaying the ability of
    opsin to bind 11-cis-retinal and form active rhodopsin. A mutant opsin, such
    as the P23H mutant, that is ordinarily misfolded has a reduced ability to bind
    11-cis-retinal,   and therefore forms     little or no rhodopsin.        Where the
    conformation of the mutant opsin has been corrected (for example, by binding
20  to a pharmacological chaperone), the opsin is correctly inserted into the rod
    cell membrane so that its conformation is the same, or substantially the same,
    as that of a non-mutant opsin. This allows the mutant opsin to bind 11 -cis
    retinal to form active rhodopsin.      Therefore, the methods of the invention
    operate to reduce the formation of visual cycle products.
25
            "Alkyl" refers to an unbroken non-cyclic chain of carbon atoms that may
    be substituted with other chemical groups. It may also be branched or
    unbranched, substituted or unsubstituted.
30          "Lower alkyl" refers to a branched or straight chain acyclic alkyl group
    comprising one to ten carbon atoms, preferably one to eight carbon atoms,
    more preferably one to six carbon atoms. Exemplary lower alkyl groups
    include methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, t-butyl,
    pentyl, neopentyl, iso-amyl, hexyl, and octyl.
                                             14

            "Hydroxy" refers to -OH. "Oxy" refers to -0-.   "Oxo" refers to =0.
            "Organic acid" refers to compound having at least one carbon atom
  5 and one or more functional groups capable of releasing a proton to a basic
    group. The organic acid preferably contains a carboxyl, a sulfonic acid or a
    phosphoric acid moiety. Exemplary organic acids include acetic acid, benzoic
    acid, citric acid, camphorsulfonic acid, methanesulfonic acid, taurocholic acid,
    chlordronic acid, glyphosphate and medronic acid.
 10
            "Inorganic acid" refers to a compound that does not contain at least
    one carbon atom and is capable of releasing a proton to a basic group.
    Exemplary inorganic acids include hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid
    and phosphoric acid.
15
            "Organic base" refers to a carbon containing compound having one or
    more functional groups capable of accepting a proton from an acid group. The
    organic base preferably contains an amine group. Exemplary organic bases
    include triethylamine, benzyldiethylamine, dimethylethyl amine, imidazole,
20  pyridine and piperidine.
            "Independently selected" groups are groups present in the same
    structure that need not all represent the same substitution. For example,
    where two substituents are represented as NORA and each RA is said to be
25  independently selected from H, methyl, ethyl, etc., this means that where one
    RA  is methyl, the other RA  may be methyl but could be H or ethyl (or any other
    recited substitution).
            Some of the compounds for use in the methods of the present
30  invention may contain one or more chiral centers and therefore may exist in
    enantiomeric and diastereomeric forms. The scope of the present invention is
    intended to cover use of all isomers per se, as well as mixtures of cis and
    trans   isomers,    mixtures   of diastereomers    and   racemic    mixtures  of
    enantiomers (optical isomers) as well. Further, it is possible using well known
                                            15

   techniques to separate the various forms, and some embodiments of the
   invention may feature purified or enriched species of a given enantiomer or
   diastereomer.
 5         A "pharmacological composition" refers to a mixture of one or more of
   the compounds described herein, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts
   thereof, with other chemical           components,     such   as    pharmaceutically
   acceptable carriers and/or excipients. The purpose of a pharmacological
   composition is to facilitate administration of a compound to an organism.
10
           The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" as used herein
   means a pharmaceutically-acceptable material, composition or vehicle, such
   as a liquid or solid filler, diluent, excipient, solvent or encapsulating material,
   involved in carrying or transporting the subject agent from one organ, or
15 portion of the body, to another organ, or portion of the body. Each carrier must
   be "acceptable" in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of
   the formulation and not injurious to the patient. Some examples of materials
   which can serve as pharmaceutically-acceptable carriers include sugars, such
   as lactose, glucose and sucrose; starches, such as corn starch and potato
20 starch; cellulose, and its derivatives, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose,
   ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate; powdered tragacanth; malt; gelatin; talc;
   excipients, such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes; oils, such as peanut
   oil, cottonseed oil, safflower oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil and soybean oil;
   glycols, such as propylene glycol; polyols, such as glycerin, sorbitol, mannitol
25 and polyethylene glycol; esters, such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate, agar;
   buffering agents, such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide,
   alginic acid, pyrogen-free water; isotonic saline; Ringer's solution; ethyl
   alcohol;   phosphate      buffer  solutions;   and    other  non-toxic   compatible
   substances employed in pharmaceutical formulations. A physiologically
30 acceptable carrier should not cause significant irritation to an organism and
   does not abrogate the biological activity and properties of the administered
   compound.
                                             16

            A "solvate" is a complex formed by the combination of a solute (e.g.,
    a metalloprotease inhibitor) and a solvent (e.g., water). See J. Honig et al.,
    The Van Nostrand Chemist's Dictionary, p. 650 (1953).
 5          The terms "optical isomer", "geometric isomer" (e.g., a cis and/or
    trans isomer), "stereoisomer", and "diastereomer" have the accepted
    meanings (see, e.g., Hawley's Condensed Chemical Dictionary, 11th Ed.).
   The illustration of specific protected forms and other derivatives of the
    compounds of the instant invention is not intended to be limiting. The
10  application of other useful protecting groups, salt forms, prodrugs etc., is
   within the ability of the skilled artisan.
            A "prodrug" is a form of a drug that must undergo chemical conversion
    by metabolic     processes before      becoming   an  active, or fully active,
15  pharmacological agent. A prodrug is not active, or is less active, in its
    ingested or absorbed or otherwise administered form. For example, a prodrug
    may be broken down by bacteria in the digestive system into products, at
   least one of which will become active as a drug. Alternatively, it may be
   administered systemically, such as by intravenous injection, and subsequently
20 be metabolized into one or more active molecules.
                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
25          In accordance with the present invention, small molecule ligands are
   capable of reversibly binding non-covalently to the opsin protein and inhibiting
   the binding of 11-cis-retinal, to an opsin retinal binding pocket. Such
   interference with retinal binding reduces the formation        of visual cycle
   products, such as all-trans-retinal, and thereby inhibits the production of
30 compounds such as lipofuscin and A2E with resulting reduced risk and
   occurrence of toxicity that can result from accumulation of these substances.
   Such compounds, acting as pharmacologic chaperones, are also able to
   facilitate the proper folding and trafficking of mutant opsins associated with
                                            17

   RP. Additionally, by inhibiting 11-cis-retinal binding and rhodopsin formation,
   the excessive stimulation and resulting activation of rhodopsin caused by
   exposure of the retina to bright light especially during retinal surgery reduces
   photocell death.
 5
          Certain synthetic retinoids (compounds structurally related to retinol
   (Vitamin A alcohol)) have been reported to bind to opsin. In the embodiments
   of the present invention, non-retinoid small molecules (compounds having a
   molecular weight less than about 1000 daltons, less than 800, less than 600,
10 less than 500, less than 400, or less than about 300 daltons) have been found
   to bind to opsin.
          The invention features compositions and methods that are useful for
   reducing formation of visual cycle products and toxicity associated with the
15 accumulation of such products in vivo, reducing the probability of apoptotic
   events associated with excessive rhodopsin activation as well as preventing
   rod cell death due to aberrant processing and trafficking of mutant opsin
   proteins associated with RP.
20        Mislocalization of photoreceptor cell visual pigment proteins (opsins)
   can occur in various ocular diseases, and also with normal aging. In such
   cases the accumulation of mislocalized opsin leads to the decline in viability of
   photoreceptor cells. With time this mislocalized opsin accumulation leads to
   rod and cone cell death, retinal degeneration, and loss of vision.
25
           In one aspect, the invention provides a method              of correcting
   mislocalized opsin within a photoreceptor cell, comprising contacting a
   mislocalized opsin protein with an opsin-binding agent that binds reversibly
   and/or non-covalently to said mislocalized opsin protein, thereby promoting
30 correct intracellular processing and transport of said opsin protein. Such
   opsin-binding agent is referred to as a "Productive Chaperone."
          Such correction of mislocalization reduces photoreceptor cell stress,
   preventing photoreceptor cell decline in viability and death in various diseases
                                           18

    of vision loss, and in normal age-related decline in dim-light and peripheral
    rod-mediated vision, central cone-mediated vision, and loss of night vision.
            In another aspect of the invention, the opsin-binding agent promotes
  5 the degradation of the mislocalized opsin protein. This type of opsin-binding
    agent is referred to as a "Counterproductive", Shipwreck", or "Destructive
    Chaperone."
            Enhancing the degradation of the mislocalized opsin by such an agent
 10 reduces the amount of mislocalized protein, thereby relieving photoreceptor
    cell stress, preventing decline in viability and death of photoreceptor cells in
    diseases of vision loss, as well as in normal age-related decline in dim-light
    and peripheral rod-mediated vision, central cone-mediated vision, and loss of
    night vision.
15
            In embodiments of the foregoing, the ocular protein mislocalization
    disorder is one or more of wet or dry form of macular degeneration, retinitis
    pigmentosa, a retinal or macular dystrophy, Stargardt's disease, Sorsby's
    dystrophy, autosomal dominant drusen, Best's dystrophy, peripherin mutation
20  associate with macular dystrophy, dominant form of Stargart's disease, North
    Carolina macular dystrophy, light toxicity, retinitis pigmentosa, normal vision
    loss related aging and normal loss of night vision related to aging.
            Opsin, the GPCR (G-protein coupled receptor) responsible for vision,
25  readily regenerates with 11-cis-retinal to form the visual pigment rhodopsin.
    The pigment is generated by formation of a protonated Schiff base between
    the aldehyde group of 11-cis-retinal and the E-amino group of L-lysine in opsin
    (Matsumoto and Yoshizawa, Nature 1975 Dec 11 ;258(5535):523-6).
30          Thus, the present invention provides compositions and methods of use
    of small molecule compounds that bind to wild type and mutant opsins and
    compete with, or other wise prevent, 11-cis-retinal from combining with opsin
    to form rhodopsin and thereby inhibit formation of 11-cis-retinal and other
    visual cycle products.
                                            19

          In one embodiment, the invention provides opsin binding ligands of
    Formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof:
                                    R-    R
                                   A     1
  5
                                        Formula I
          wherein A is:
                 1)
                          R1 R2
                         T
                                      R3
 10                     Ra       Rb        or
                 2)
                         R1 R2
                        T
                                     R'
                               r     R3
                        Ra       Rb
          R1 and R2 are independently:
15               1) hydrogen,
                 2) -CH 3 , or
                 3) -CH 2CH 3;
          R3 is:
20               1) hydrogen,
                 2) -CH 3 ,
                 3) -CH 2 CH 3 , or
                 4) deuteron;
                                              20

          R4 is:
                  1) hydrogen,
                  2) -CH 3 , or
                  3) deuteron;
 5
          Ra and Rb are each independently:
                  1) hydrogen, or
                  2) -CH 3 ;
10        T is:
                  1) CH 2 ,
                  2) CH 2 CH 2 , or
                  3) absent;
15        Ri and Rj are each independently:
                  1) hydrogen,
                  2) hydroxyl, or
                  3) lower alkyl;
20        Ri and Rj taken together are oxo (=O);
          X-Y is:
                  1) -N(CONH 2)-CH 2-, or
                  2) -CH 2-N(CONH 2)-;
25
          In preferred embodiments, the compound has the structure of Formula
   I wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen or lower alkyl and wherein R1 and
   R2 are each independently methyl or ethyl, Ra and Rb are each selected from
   hydrogen or methyl, more preferably wherein Ri is hydroxy          and Rj is
30 hydrogen or methyl, both of      R1      2
                                       and R are methyl and both Ra and Rb are
   hydrogen and R3 is hydrogen or methyl, and most preferably wherein R1 , R2
   and R3 are each methyl, Ri is hydroxy, Rj is hydrogen or methyl and both Ra
   and Rb is hydrogen and X-Y is -N(CONH 2)-CH 2-.
                                           21

            In specific embodiments the opsin binding compound of Formula I is
     (wherein each compound number corresponds to the number of the example
    where it was prepared):
    6-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)
  5 carboxamide (Compound 1);
    6-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
    2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 2);
    6-((S)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 3);
 10 6-((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexanecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
    2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 4);
    6-((R)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 5);
    7-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)
15  carboxamide (Compound 6);
    7-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
    2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 7);
    6-(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)
    carboxamide (Compound 8);
20  6-(hydroxy(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
    2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 9);
    6-(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)
    carboxamide (Compound 10);
    6-(7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)
25  carboxamide (Compound 11);
    6-((7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enyl)(hydroxy)methyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
    2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 12);
    6-((R)-1 -hydroxy-1 -((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)ethyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 13);
30  6-(hydroxy(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 14)
    including all pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates, or solvates thereof.
                                             22

           All compound names were derived using ChemBioDraw 11.0.1 and the
    stereochemistry of new chiral centers of products resulting from the addtion to
    chiral aldehydes or ketones was assigned based upon Crams Rule of
    asymmetric induction (Cram and Elhafez, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 74:5828-5835
  5 (1952)).
           Especially preferred examples of the compounds of the invention, and
    methods using said compounds, include compounds selected from one or
    more of the group consisting of compounds 2, 3 and 5 including all
 10 pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates and hydrates thereof.
            The  present invention     also provides  thereapeutic compositions,
    comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula 1
15
                                 Ri      R
                                 A                   Y
                                                     x
                                       Formula 1
20         wherein A is:
                  1)
                          R1 R 2
                          T
                                    R3
                         Ra     Rb       or
                  2)
                         R1   R2
                         T
                                   R4
                              r
                                   R3
                         Ra    Rb
                                            23

   R1 and R2 are independently:
           1) hydrogen,
          2) -CH 3 , or
 5        3) -CH 2 CH3;
   R3 is:
           1) hydrogen,
           2) -CH 3 ,
10         3) -CH2 CH 3 , or
           4) deuteron;
   R4 is:
           1) hydrogen,
15         2) -CH 3 , or
           3) deuteron;
   Ra and   Rb are each independently:
           1) hydrogen, or
20         2) -CH 3;
   T is:
           1) CH 2 ,
           2) CH 2CH 2 , or
25         3) absent;
   Ri and R; are each independently:
           1) hydrogen,
           2) hydroxyl, or
30         3) lower alkyl;
   Ri and Rj when taken together are =0;
   X-Y is:
                                 24

                   1) -N(CONH 2)-CH 2 -, or
                   2) -CH 2-N(CONH 2)-;
            including pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates and hydrates
  5 thereof.
            In preferred embodiments, the compounds and compositions of the
    invention include embodiments of Formula I wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is
     hydrogen or lower alkyl, wherein R1 and R2 are each independently methyl or
 10 ethyl, wherein Ra and Rb are hydrogen or methyl, and wherein R' and R2 are
    each independently methyl or ethyl, or combinations of these. In one such
    preferred embodiment, Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen or lower alkyl, R1 and
    R2 are each independently methyl or ethyl, and Ra and Rb are hydrogen or
    methyl.
 15
            In preferred embodiments, the compounds and compositions of the
    invention include embodiments of Formula I wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is
    hydrogen or methyl, wherein each of R1 and R2 is methyl, wherein Ra and Rb
    are each hydrogen, wherein R3 is hydrogen or methyl, or combinations of
20  these. In one such preferred embodiment, Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen or
    methyl, each of R1 and R2 is methyl, Ra and Rb are each hydrogen and R3 is
    hydrogen or methyl.
             In preferred embodiments, the compounds and compositions of the
25  invention include embodiments of Formula I wherein R1 , R2 and R3 are each
    methyl, wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen or methyl, wherein each of
    Ra and Rb is hydrogen, wherein X-Y is -N(CONH 2 )-CH 2-. In one such
    preferred embodiment, R1 , R2 and R3 methyl, Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen
    or methyl and both Ra and Rb is hydrogen and X-Y is -N(CONH 2 )-CH 2
30
           In another preferred embodiment, the invention provides a composition
    comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound selected from
    the group consisting of
                                            25

           6-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 1);
           6-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 2);
 5         6-((S)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 3);
           6-((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexanecarbonyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 4);
           6-((R)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
10 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 5);
           7-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 6);
           7-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 7);
15 6-(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)
   carboxamide (Compound 8);
   6-(hydroxy(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1-enyl)methyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 9);
   6-(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)
20 carboxamide (Compound 10);
   6-(7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)
   carboxamide (Compound 11);
   6-((7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enyl)(hydroxy)methyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 12);
25 6-((R)-1 -hydroxy-1 -((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)ethyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound13);
   6-(hydroxy(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1-enyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 14)
   including all pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates, or solvates thereof.
30
           In   an   much    preferred  embodiment,    the   invention provides a
   composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound
   selected from the group consisting of compounds 2, 3 and 5 including all
                                            26

    pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates and hydrates thereof.
            Another embodiment of the invention provides the opsin binding ligand
    metabolites of the opsin binding compounds. These metabolites, include but
  5 are not limited to, degradation products, hydrolysis products, gluconoride
    adducts and the like, of the opsin binding compounds and pharmaceutically
    acceptable salts thereof, of the opsin compounds.
            Another embodiment of the invention provides processes for making
 10 the novel compounds of the invention and to the intermediates useful in such
    processes. The reactions are performed           in solvents appropriate to the
    reagents and materials used are suitable for the transformations being
    effected, It is understood by one skilled in the art of organic synthesis that the
    functionality present in the molecule must be consistent with the chemical
15  transformation proposed. This will, on occasion, necessitate judgment by the
    routineer as to the order of synthetic steps, protecting groups required, and
    deprotection conditions.     Substituents on the starting materials may be
    incompatible with some of the reaction conditions required in some of the
    methods described, but alternative methods and substituents compatible with
20  the reaction conditions will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art. The
    use of sulfur, nitrogen and oxygen protecting groups is well known for
    protecting thiol, amino and alcohol groups against undesirable reactions
    during a synthetic procedure and many such protecting groups are known and
    described by, for example, Greene and Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic
25  Synthesis, Third Edition, John Wiley & Sons, New York (1999).
            Compounds of the invention that have one or more asymmetric carbon
    atoms may exist as the optically pure enantiomers, pure diastereomers,
    mixtures of enantiomers, mixtures of diastereomers, racemic mixtures of
30  enantiomers,     diasteromeric   racemates     or   mixtures  of  diastereomeric
    racemates. It is to be understood that the invention anticipates and includes
    within its scope all such isomers and mixtures thereof.
                                            27

           The chemical reactions described herein are generally disclosed in
   terms of their broadest application to the preparation of the compounds of this
    invention. Occasionally, the reactions may not be applicable as described to
    each compound included within the disclosed scope.           The compounds for
 5 which this occurs will be readily, recognized by one skilled in the art. In all
   such    cases,   either the   reactions  can     be  successfully performed     by
   conventional modifications known to one skilled in the art, e.g., by appropriate
   protection of interfering groups, by changing to alternative conventional
    reagents, by routine modification of reaction conditions, or other reactions
10 disclosed    herein or otherwise conventional, will be applicable to the
    preparation of the corresponding compounds of this invention.              In all
   preparative methods, all starting materials are known or readily prepared from
   known starting materials.
15  Methods of the invention
           The present invention provides a method of using compounds of the
    Formula I for reducing the formation of toxic visual cycle products, comprising
   contacting an opsin protein with small molecule ligands that reversibly bind to
20 said opsin protein to inhibit 11-cis-retinal binding in said binding pocket,
   thereby reducing formation of toxic visual cycle products associated with wet
   or dry ARMD and reducing photocell apoptosis associated with excessive
   rhodopsin activation as a result of bright light stimulation.
25         The present invention also provides a method of use of compounds of
   the Formula I for treating, preventing or reducing the risk of light toxicity in a
   mammal, comprising administering to a mammal, at risk of developing an
   ophthalmic condition that is related to the formation or accumulation of a
   visual cycle product or apoptotic photocell death.
30
           The present invention also provides a method of use of compounds of
   the Formula I for treating, preventing or reducing the risk of light toxicity in a
   mammal, comprising administering to a mammal, at risk of developing an
   ophthalmic condition that is related to the formation or accumulation of a
                                           28

   visual cycle product or apoptotic photocell death, an effective amount of a that
   small molecule ligand that reversibly binds (for example, at or near the retinal
   binding pocket) to an opsin protein present in the eye of said mammal, for
   example, to inhibit 11-cis-retinal binding in said binding pocket, thereby
 5 reducing light toxicity and photocell apoptosis.
           The present invention also provides a method of use of compounds of
   the Formula I for treating, preventing or reducing the risk of RP in a mammal,
   comprising administering to a mammal, at risk of RP related to the improper
10 folding and trafficking of mutant opsins, an effective amount of a that small
   molecule ligand that reversibly binds (for example, at or near the retinal
   binding pocket) to an opsin protein present in the eye of said mammal, for
   example, to inhibit 11-cis-retinal binding in said binding pocket, thereby
   reducing the vision loss caused by RP.
15
           In specific examples of such methods, the small molecule ligand is
   selective for binding to opsin and/or the small molecule ligand binds to said
   opsin in the retinal binding pocket of said opsin protein and/or the small
   molecule ligand binds to said opsin protein so as to inhibit covalent binding of
20 11 -cis-retinal to said opsin protein when said 11 -cis-retinal is contacted with
   said opsin protein when said small molecule ligand is present and/or the
   mammal is a human being.
            In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of inhibiting the
25 formation or accumulation of a visual cycle product, comprising contacting an
   opsin protein with a compound of Formula I
                                  R      R
                                 A                   Y
30
                                       Formula 1
                                           29

   wherein A is:
          1)
                    Ri R 2
                    T
                             R3
                  Ra      Rb    or
 5        2)
                   R1 R 2
                   T    T    R4
                             R3
                  Ra     Rb
   R1 and R2 are independently:
          1) hydrogen,
10        2) -CH 3 , or
          3) -CH 2CH3 ;
   R3 is:
          1) hydrogen,
15        2) -CH 3,
          3) -CH 2 CH 3 , or
          4) deuteron;
   R4 is:
20        1) hydrogen,
          2) -CH 3 , or
          3) deuteron;
   Ra and Rb are each independently:
25        1) hydrogen, or
          2) -CH 3;
                                   30

            T is:
                    1) CH 2 ,
                   2) CH 2 CH2 , or
 5                 3) absent;
           Ri and Rj are each independently:
                    1) hydrogen,
                    2) hydroxyl, or
10                  3) lower alkyl;
            Ri and Rj when taken together are =O;
            X-Y is:
15                  1) -N(CONH 2)-CH 2-, or
                    2) -CH 2-N(CONH 2)-;
            including pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates and hydrates
   thereof.
20
           In preferred embodiments of this method, the visual cycle product is a
   toxic visual cycle product, for example, wherein said toxic visual cycle product
   is lipofuscin or N-retinylidene-N-retinylethanolamine (A2E).
25          In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating or
   preventing an ophthalmic condition in a subject at risk thereof, comprising
   administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound of Formula I,
   with the same limitations on constituent groups as stated above and
   elsewhere herein for Formula 1 and including all pharmaceutically acceptable
30 salts, solvates and hydrates thereof.
           Preferred embodiments of the above include methods wherein the
   compound reduces mislocalization of said opsin protein, such as         wherein
   said compound binds to said opsin protein by hydrogen bonding.             Other
                                            31

    preferred embodiment include those wherein said opsin protein is present in a
    cell, especially a cone cell or rod cell, such as wherein said cell is present in a
    mammalian eye.
  5         In other preferred embodiments of the above method, the ophthalmic
    condition is an ocular protein mislocalization disorder, such as one selected
    from the group consisting of wet or dry age related macular degeneration
    (ARMD), retinitis pigmentosa (RP), a retinal or macular dystrophy, Stargardt's
    disease, Sorsby's dystrophy, autosomal dominant drusen, Best's dystrophy,
 10 peripherin mutation associate with macular dystrophy, dominant form of
    Stargart's disease, North Carolina macular dystrophy, light toxicity, normal
    vision loss related aging and normal loss of night vision related to aging .
            In a most preferred embodiment, the ophthalmic condition is retinitis
15  pigmentosa (RP), especially where said RP is caused by aberrant opsin
    folding.
             In preferred embodiments of the methods of the invention, the
    compounds and compositions used in the methods of the invention include
20  embodiments of Formula I wherein Ri is hydroxy and R; is hydrogen or lower
    alkyl, wherein R1 and R2 are each independently methyl or ethyl, wherein Ra
    and Rb are hydrogen or methyl, or combinations of these. In one such
    preferred embodiment, Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen or lower alkyl, R1 and
    R2 are each independently methyl or ethyl, and Ra and Rb are hydrogen or
25  methyl.
             In preferred embodiments of the methods of the invention, the
    compounds and compositions used in the methods of the invention include
    embodiments of Formula I wherein Ri is hydroxy and R is hydrogen or methyl,
30  wherein each of R1 and R2 is methyl, wherein Ra and Rb are each hydrogen,
    wherein R3 is hydrogen or methyl, or combinations of these. In one such
    preferred embodiment, Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen or methyl, each of R1
    and R2 is methyl, Ra and Rb are each hydrogen and R3 is hydrogen or methyl.
                                              32

             In preferred embodiments of the methods of the invention, the
   compounds and compositions used in the methods of the invention include
   embodiments of Formula I wherein R1 , R2 and R3 are each methyl, wherein Ri
   is hydroxy and R is hydrogen or methyl, wherein each of R a a nd Rb is
 5 hydrogen,     wherein    X-Y   is -N(CONH 2)-CH 2-.   In  one   such   preferred
   embodiment, R1, R2 and R3 methyl, Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen or methyl
   and both Ra and Rb is hydrogen and X-Y is -N(CONH 2)-CH 2-.
            In one preferred embodiment, the invention provides a method of
10 inhibiting the formation or accumulation of a visual cycle product, comprising
   contacting an opsin protein with a compound selected from the group
   consisting of
           6-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 1);
15         6-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 2);
           6-((S)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 3);
           6-((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexanecarbonyl)-3,4
20 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 4);
           6-((R)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 5);
           7-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 6);
25         7-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 7);
           6-(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 8);
           6-(hydroxy(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
30 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 9);
           6-(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 10);
                                            33

            6-(7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
    2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 11);
            6-((7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enyl)(hydroxy)methyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide (Compound 12);
  5         6-((R)-1 -hydroxy-1 -((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)ethyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound13);
            6-(hyd roxy(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1-enyl)methyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound14)
 10         including all pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates, or solvates
    thereof.
             In another preferred embodiment, the invention provides a method of
    treating or preventing an ophthalmic condition in a subject at risk thereof or
 15 afflicted therewith, comprising administering to the subject an effective
    amount of a compound selected from the group consisting of:
            6-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
    2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 1);
20          6-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 2);
            6-((S)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 3);
            6-((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexanecarbonyl)-3,4
25  dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 4);
            6-((R)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 5);
            7-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
    2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 6);
30          7-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 7);
                                             34

   6-(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)
   carboxamide (Compound 8);
   6-(hydroxy(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 9);
 5 6-(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)
   carboxamide (Compound 10);
   6-(7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)
   carboxamide (Compound 11);
   6-((7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enyl)(hydroxy)methyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
10 2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 12);
   6-((R)-1 -hydroxy-1 -((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)ethyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 13);
   6-(hydroxy(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1-enyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 14)
15
           including all pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates, or solvates
   thereof.
            In a most preferred embodiment, the invention provides a method of
20 inhibiting the formation or accumulation of a visual cycle product, comprising
   contacting an opsin protein with a compound selected from the group
   consisting of compounds 2, 3 and 5 including all pharmaceutically acceptable
   salts, solvates and hydrates thereof.
25         In another especially preferred embodiment, the invention provides a
   method of treating or preventing an ophthalmic condition in a subject at risk
   thereof or afflicted therewith, comprising administering to the subject an
   effective amount of a compound selected from the group consisting of
   compounds 2, 3 and 5 including all pharmaceutically acceptable salts,
30 solvates and hydrates thereof.
           In accordance with the above methods, light toxicity is related to an
   ophthalmic procedure, for example, ophthalmic surgery. Said agent may be
   administered prior to, during or after said surgery (or at any one or more of
                                            35

   those times).
           In specific embodiments of the methods of the invention, the native
   opsin protein is present in a cell, such as a rod cell, preferably, a mammalian
 5 and more preferably a human cell. In specific embodiments, the small
   molecule ligands of the invention inhibit binding of 11 -cis-retinal in the binding
   pocket of opsin and slow the visual cycle thereby reducing the formation of all
   trans-retinal, or a toxic visual cycle product formed from it, such as lipofuscin
   or    N-retinylidene-N-retinylethanolamine     (A2E).   Alternatively,    photocell
10 apoptosis as a result of excessive rhodopsin activation is reduced or
   prevented by inhibition of rhodopsin formation. Additionally, improper folding
   and trafficking of mutant opsin proteins associated with RP is reduced.
           In methods of the invention, administering is preferably by topical
15 administration (such as with an eye wash) or by systemic administration
   (including oral, intraocular injection or periocular injection). By way of
   preferred example, the ophthalmic condition to be treated is light toxicity, such
   as that resulting from ocular surgery, for example, retinal or cataract surgery.
20         Also encompassed is an ophthalmologic composition comprising an
   effective amount of compounds of the Formula I in a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier, wherein said agent reversibly binds non-covalently (for
   example, at or near the retinal binding pocket) to said opsin protein to inhibit
   11-cis-retinal binding in said pocket, preferably where the small molecule
25 ligand is selective for opsin protein.
           The present invention further provides a screening             method for
   identifying a small molecule ligand that reduces light toxicity in a mammalian
   eye, comprising:
30         (a) contacting a native opsin-protein with a test compound in the
   presence of 11-cis-retinal and under conditions that promote the binding of
   the test compound and the 11 -cis-retinal to the native opsin protein; and
           (b) determining a reversible reduction in rate of formation of rhodopsin
   relative to the rate when said test compound is not present,
                                            36

             thereby identifying said test compound as a small molecule ligand that
     reduces light toxicity in a mammalian eye. In a preferred embodiment, said
     test compound is structurally related to a compound disclosed herein.
  5          The compounds of the Formula I may be administered along with other
     agents, including a mineral supplement, an anti-inflammatory agent, such as a
     steroid, for example, a corticosteroid, and/or an anti-oxidant. Among the
     corticosteroids useful for such administration are those selected from the
     group consisting of cortisone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, prednisolone,
 10  methylprednisolone, triamcinolone,       betamethasone,   beclamethasone       and
     dexamethasone. Useful anti-oxidants include vitamin A, vitamin C and vitamin
     E.
             The methods of the invention also contemplate reducing light toxicity
 15  by using at least one additional agent (in addition to the compounds of the
     Formula I selected from the group consisting of a proteasomal inhibitor, an
    autophagy inhibitor, a lysosomal inhibitor, an inhibitor of protein transport from
    the ER to the Golgi, an Hsp90 chaperone inhibitor, a heat shock response
    activator, a glycosidase inhibitor, and a histone deacetylase inhibitor, wherein
20  the small      molecule    opsin binding    and the additional     compound     are
    administered simultaneously or within fourteen days of each other in amounts
    sufficient to treat the subject.
             In a particular example of the methods of the invention, the compounds
25  of the Formula I and the additional compound are administered within ten
    days of each other, within five days of each other, within twenty-four hours of
    each other and preferably are administered simultaneously. In one example,
    the    small   molecule    opsin  binding   and the additional compound         are
    administered directly to the eye. Such administration may be intraocular or
30  intravitrial. In other examples, the small molecule opsin binding and the
    additional compound are each incorporated into a composition that provides
    for their long-term release, such as where the composition is part of a
    microsphere, nanosphere, nano emulsion or implant.
                                              37

           As described herein, the compounds of the Formula I are useful in the
   methods of the invention are available for use alone or in combination with
   one or more additional compounds to treat or prevent conditions associated
   with excessive rhodopsin activation, such as light toxicity, for example,
 5 resulting from ocular surgical procedures. In one embodiment, compounds of
   the Formula I of the invention is administered without an additional active
   compound. In another embodiment, compounds of the Formula I of the
   invention is used in combination and with another active compound (e.g., as
   discussed herein). In still another exemplary embodiment, compounds of the
10 Formula I are administered in combination with the proteasomal inhibitor
   MG132,     the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine, a lysosomal inhibitor
   ammonium chloride, the ER-Golgi transport inhibitor brefeldin A, the Hsp90
   chaperone inhibitor Geldamycin, the heat shock response activator Celastrol,
   the glycosidase inhibitor, and the histone deacetylase inhibitor Scriptaid, can
15 be used to reduce formation of visual cycle products and cell apoptosis as a
   result of excessive rhodopsin activation.
           As described herein, the compounds of the Formula I are useful in the
   methods of the invention are available for use alone or in combination with
20 one or more additional compounds to treat or prevent the aberrant processing
   and trafficking of mutant opsin proteins associated with rod cell death as a
   result of RP. In one embodiment, compounds of the Formula I of the invention
   is   administered    without  an   additional active compound.      In  another
   embodiment, compounds of the Formula I of the invention is used in
25 combination and with another active compound (e.g., as discussed herein). In
   still another exemplary embodiment, compounds of the Formula I are
   administered in combination with the proteasomal inhibitor MG132, the
   autophagy     inhibitor  3-methyladenine,   a lysosomal   inhibitor ammonium
   chloride, the ER-Golgi transport inhibitor brefeldin A, the Hsp90 chaperone
30 inhibitor Geldamycin, the heat shock response activator Celastrol, the
   glycosidase inhibitor, and the histone deacetylase inhibitor Scriptaid, can be
   used to reduce or prevent the rod cell death and resulting blindness
   associated with RP.
                                           38

            As described herein, the compounds of the Formula I are useful in the
    methods of the invention are available for use alone or in combination with
    one or more additional compounds to treat or prevent conditions associated
    with production and accumulation of toxic visual cycle products derived from
  5 all-trans-retinal, such as lipofucin and A2E, for example, the blindness
    associated with wet or dry ARMD. In one embodiment, compounds of the
    Formula I of the invention are administered without an additional active
    compound. In another embodiment, compounds of the Formula I of the
    invention are used in combination and with another active compound (e.g., as
 10 discussed herein). In still another exemplary embodiment, compounds of the
    Formula I are administered in combination with the proteasomal inhibitor
    MG132, the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine, a lysosomal inhibitor
    ammonium chloride, the ER-Golgi transport inhibitor brefeldin A, the Hsp90
    chaperone inhibitor Geldamycin, the heat shock response activator Celastrol,
15  the glycosidase inhibitor, and the histone deacetylase inhibitor Scriptaid, can
    be used to reduce formation of toxic visual cycle product metabolites and
    photo cell death as a result of dry ARMD.
            In a typical competition assay of the invention, a compound is sought
20  that will tie up the retinal binding pocket of the opsin protein. Thus, the assay
    seeks to identify a small molecule opsin binding compound (one that will not
    be tightly regulated by the retina as to amount entering rod cells) that
    competes with or prevents 11-cis-retinal          or 9-cis-retinal from   forming
    rhodopsin or isorhodopsin. Over time, this will slow the rate of formation of
25  rhodopsin relative to the rate when 11-cis-retinal alone is present. In one
    embodiment, the assay is conducted in the presence of 11 -cis-retinal, and the
    rate of formation of rhodopsin is measured as a way of determining
    competition for the retinal binding pocket, for example, by determining the rate
    of increase in the 500 nm peak characteristic for rhodopsin. No antibodies for
30  rhodopsin are required for this assay. A useful compound will exhibit a rate of
    rhodopsin formation that is at least about 2 to 5 fold lower than that observed
    in the presence of 11 -cis-retinal when said test compound is not present.
            In specific embodiments of the methods of the invention, the misfolded
                                             39

    opsin protein comprises a mutation in its amino acid sequence, for example,
    one of the mutations T17M, P347S, R135W or P23H, preferably P23H.
             Preferably, in any of the methods of the invention, the opsin-binding
  5 agent binds to opsin in its retinal binding pocket.
             In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the
    formation or accumulation of a visual cycle product, comprising contacting an
    opsin protein with a compound that reduces hydration of said opsin protein,
 10 preferably wherein said compound competes with one or more water
    molecules for binding to opsin. In specific embodiments of such methods, the
    compound binds chemically to the opsin protein, for example, through
    hydrogen bonding.
 15          While use of any of the compounds disclosed herein as a means of
    reducing hydration in the opsin binding pocket should be considered a
    preferred embodiment of such method, the reduction of formation of a visual
    cycle product by reducing the formation of rhodopsin is a general method of
    the invention for reducing such visual cycle product formation, especially
20  production of lipofuscin and/or A2E, and for treating an ophthalmic disease by
    reducing said hydration is a general aim of the invention and is not
    necessarily limited in scope only to the use of chemicals disclosed herein but
    may include use of other known or yet to be known chemical compounds so
    long as they function in the methods of the invention and reduce hydration
25  (i.e., binding of water) in the retinal binding pocket of opsin.
             It should be noted that the compounds disclosed herein for use in the
    methods of the invention may not function to reduce hydration in the retinal
    binding pocket of opsin but may still function in one or more of the methods of
30  the invention. For example, a compound of Formula I may bind to an allosteric
    site on the protein thereby excluding retinal from the retinal binding site
    without necessarily decreasing hydration yet still reduce formation of a visual
    cycle product, such as lipofuscin and/or A2E, by virtue of its excluding retinal
    from the binding pocket, thus non-covalently reducing the activity of the visual
                                               40

   cycle.
           In embodiments of any of the compositions and methods of the
   invention, the opsin-binding agent (e.g., a non-retinoid binding agent) is
 5 selective for binding to opsin. Such selectivity is not to be taken as requiring
   exclusivity that said agent may bind to other proteins as well as to opsin but
   its binding to opsin will be at least selective, whereby the binding constant (or
   dissociation constant) for binding to opsin will be lower than the average value
   for binding to other proteins that also bind retinoids, such as retinal analogs.
10 Preferably, opsin binding agents are non-retinoid opsin-binding agents that
   bind non-covalently to opsin. Preferably, the opsin binding agent binds at or
   near the opsin retinal binding pocket, where the native ligand, 11-cis-retinal,
   normally binds. Without wishing to be bound by theory, in one embodiment
   the binding pocket accommodates retinal or an agent of the invention, but not
15 both. Accordingly, when an agent of the invention is bound at or near the
   retinal binding pocket, other retinoids, such as 11-cis-retinal, are unable to
   bind to opsin. Binding of an agent of the invention inside the retinal binding
   pocket of a misfolded opsin molecule serves to direct formation of the native
   or wild-type conformation of the opsin molecule or to stabilize a correctly
20 folded opsin protein, thereby facilitating insertion of the now correctly-folded
   opsin into the membrane of a rod cell. Again, without wishing to be bound by
   theory, said insertion may help to maintain the wild-type conformation of opsin
   and the opsin-binding agent is free to diffuse out of the binding pocket,
   whereupon the pocket is available for binding to retinal to form light-sensitive
25 rhodopsin.
           Other   methods    of the    invention    provide a means     to  restore
   photoreceptor function in a mammalian eye containing a misfolded opsin
   protein that causes reduced photoreceptor function, comprising contacting
30 said misfolded opsin protein with an opsin-binding agent (e.g., a non-retinoid)
   that reversibly binds (e.g., that binds non-covalently) at or near the retinal
   binding pocket. In other embodiments, binding of the opsin-binding agent to
   the misfolded opsin protein competes with 11 -cis-retinal for binding in said
   binding pocket. Desirably, binding of the opsin-binding agent restores the
                                            41

   native conformation of said misfolded opsin protein.
           In preferred embodiments, the mammalian eye is a human eye. In
   additional embodiments, said contacting occurs by administering said opsin
   binding agent (e.g., non-retinoid) to a mammal afflicted with an ophthalmic
 5 condition, such as a condition characterized by reduced photoreceptor
   function.    In various embodiments, the condition is the wet or dry form of
   macular degeneration, diabetic RP, a retinal or macular dystrophy, Stargardt's
   disease, Sorsby's dystrophy, autosomal dominant drusen, Best's dystrophy,
   peripherin mutation associate with macular dystrophy, dominant form of
10 Stargart's disease, North Carolina macular dystrophy, light toxicity (e.g., due
   to retinal surgery), or retinitis pigmentosa. The administration may be topical
   administration    or by    systemic administration, the latter     including oral
   administration,     intraocular   injection  or  periocular   injection.   Topical
   administration can include, for example, eye drops containing an effective
15 amount of an agent of the invention in a suitable pharmaceutical carrier.
           In another embodiment, the present invention also provides a method
   of stabilizing a mutant opsin protein, comprising contacting said mutant opsin
   protein with a non-retinoid opsin-binding agent that reversibly binds non
20 covalently (for example, at or in the retinal binding pocket) to said mutant
   opsin protein to prevent retinoid binding in said binding pocket, thereby
   stabilizing said mutant opsin protein.
           The present invention also provides a method of ameliorating loss of
25 photoreceptor function in a mammalian eye, comprising administering an
   effective amount of an opsin-binding agent, such as a non-retinoid, to a
   mammal afflicted with a mutant opsin protein that has reduced affinity for 11
   cis-retinal, whereby the opsin binding agent reversibly binds (e.g., non
   covalently) to the retinal binding pocket of said mutant opsin, thereby
30 ameliorating loss of photoreceptor function in said mammalian eye. In one
   embodiment, the contacting occurs by administering said opsin-binding agent
   to a mammal afflicted with said reduced photoreceptor function, wherein said
   administering may be by topical administration or by systemic administration,
   the latter including oral, intraocular injection or periocular injection, and the
                                             42

   former including the use of eye drops containing an agent of the invention.
   Such loss of photoreceptor function may be a partial loss or a complete loss,
   and where a partial loss it may be to any degree between 1% loss and 99%
   loss. In addition, such loss may be due to the presence of a mutation that
 5 causes misfolding of the opsin, such as where the mutation is the P23H
   mutation. In another embodiment, the opsin binding agent is administered to
   ameliorate an ophthalmic condition related to the mislocalization of an opsin
   protein. In one embodiment, the invention provides for the treatment of a
   subject having the dry form of age-related macular degeneration, where at
10 least a portion of the opsin present in an ocular photoreceptor cell (e.g., a rod
   or cone cell) is mislocalized. The mislocalized protein fails to be inserted into
   the membrane of a photoreceptor cell, where its function is required for vision.
   Administration of the opsin binding agent to a subject having a mislocalized
   opsin protein rescues, at least in part, opsin localization. Accordingly, the
15 invention is useful to prevent or treat an ophthalmic condition related to opsin
   mislocalization or to ameliorate a symptom thereof.
           The present invention provides a method for treating and/or preventing
   an ophthalmic condition or a symptom thereof, including but not limited to, wet
20 or dry form of macular degeneration, retinitis pigmentosa, a retinal or macular
   dystrophy, Stargardt's disease, Sorsby's dystrophy, autosomal dominant
   drusen,    Best's dystrophy, peripherin       mutation   associate with macular
   dystrophy, dominant form of Stargart's disease, North Carolina macular
   dystrophy, light toxicity (e.g., due to retinal surgery), or retinitis pigmentosa in
25 a subject, such as a human patient, comprising administering to a subject
   afflicted with, or at risk of developing, one of the aforementioned conditions or
   another ophthalmic condition related to the expression of a misfolded or
   mislocalized opsin protein using a therapeutically effective amount of an
   opsin-binding agent, e.g., an agent that shows positive activity when tested in
30 any one or more of the screening assays of the invention.
           Such a method may also comprise administering to said subject at
   least one     additional agent selected       from  the   group    consisting of a
   proteasomal inhibitor, an autophagy inhibitor, a lysosomal inhibitor, an
                                             43

    inhibitor of protein transport from the ER to the Golgi, an Hsp90 chaperone
    inhibitor, a heat shock response activator, a glycosidase inhibitor, and a
    histone deacetylase inhibitor, wherein the opsin-binding compound and the
    additional compound are administered simultaneously or within fourteen days
 5  of each other in amounts sufficient to treat the subject.
            Here again the patient may comprise a mutation that affects protein
    folding where said mutation(s) causes misfolding, e.g., in an opsin protein,
    and may be any of the mutations recited elsewhere herein, such as a P23H
10  mutation. In other embodiments, the patient has an ophthalmic condition that
    is related to the mislocalization of an opsin protein. The mislocalized opsin
    fails to insert into the membrane of a photoreceptor cell (e.g., a rod or cone
    cell). In general, this failure in localization would effect only a portion of the
    opsin present in an ocular cell of a patient.
15
            In particular examples of the methods of the invention, the opsin
    binding compound and the additional compound are administered within ten
   days of each other, more preferably within five days of each other, even more
    preferably within twenty-four hours of each other and most preferably are
20 administered simultaneously. In one example, the opsin-binding compound
   and the additional compound are administered directly to the eye. Such
   administration may be intra-ocular. In other examples, the opsin-binding
   compound and the additional compound are each incorporated into a
   composition that provides for their long-term release, such as where the
25 composition is part of a microsphere, nanosphere, or nano emulsion. In one
   example, the composition is administered via a drug-delivery device that
   effects long-term release. Such methods also contemplate administering a
   vitamin A supplement along with an agent of the invention.
30          As described herein, the opsin-binding agents useful in the methods of
   the invention are available for use alone or in combination with one or more
   additional compounds to treat or prevent conditions associated with the wet or
   dry form of macular degeneration, retinitis pigmentosa, a retinal or macular
   dystrophy, Stargardt's disease, Sorsby's dystrophy, autosomal dominant
                                             44

   drusen,     Best's dystrophy,    peripherin   mutation   associate with   macular
   dystrophy, dominant form of Stargart's disease, North Carolina macular
   dystrophy, light toxicity (e.g., due to retinal surgery), retinitis pigmentosa or
   another ophthalmic condition related to the expression of a misfolded or
 5 mislocalized opsin protein. In one embodiment, an opsin-binding compound of
   the invention (e.g., a non-retinoid or a retinoid that fails to covalently bind to
   opsin) is administered to a subject identified as having or at risk of developing
   such a condition. Optionally, the opsin binding agent is administered together
   with another therapeutic agent. In another embodiment, a non-retinoid opsin
10 binding compound of the invention is used in combination with a synthetic
   retinoid (e.g., as disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004-0242704), and
   optionally with another active compound (e.g., as discussed herein). In still
   another exemplary embodiment, an opsin-binding compound is administered
   in combination with the proteasomal inhibitor MG132, the autophagy inhibitor
15 3-methyladenine, a lysosomal inhibitor, such as ammonium chloride, the ER
   Golgi    transport   inhibitor brefeldin   A,  the   Hsp90    chaperone    inhibitor
   Geldamycin, the heat shock response activator Celastrol, the glycosidase
   inhibitor, and/or the histone deacetylase inhibitor Scriptaid, or any other agent
   that can stabilize a mutant P23H opsin protein in a biochemically functional
20 conformation that allows it to associate with 11 -cis-retinal to form rhodopsin.
           In specific embodiments, an opsin-binding compound is a non
   polymeric (e.g., a small molecule, such as those disclosed herein for use in
   the methods of the invention) compound having a molecular weight less than
25 about 1000 daltons, less than 800, less than 600, less than 500, less than
   400, or less than about 300 daltons. In certain embodiments, a compound of
   the invention increases the amount (e.g., from or in a cell) of a stably-folded
   and/or complexed mutant protein by at least 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 50%,
   75%, or 100% compared to an untreated control cell or protein.
30
           Proteasomal inhibitors
           The 26S      proteasome    is a    multicatalytic protease   that cleaves
   ubiquinated proteins into short peptides. MG-132 is one proteasomal inhibitor
                                            45

   that may be used. MG- 132 is particularly useful for the treatment of light
   toxicity and other ocular diseases related to the accumulation of visual cycle
   products (e.g., all-trans-retinal, A2E, lipofuscin), protein aggregation or protein
   misfolding. Other proteasomal inhibitors useful in combination with of the
 5 invention in the methods of the invention include lactocystin (LC), clasto
   lactocystin-beta-lactone, PSI (N-carbobenzoyl-Ile-Glu-(OtBu)-Ala-Leu-CHO),
   MG-132 (N-carbobenzoyl-Leu-Leu-Leu-CHO), MG-115 (N-carbobenzoyl-Leu
   Leu-Nva-CHO), MG-101 (N-Acetyl-Leu-Leu-norLeu-CHO), ALLM (N-Acetyl
   Leu-Leu-Met-CHO), N-carbobenzoyl-Gly-Pro-Phe-leu-CHO, N-carbobenzoyl
10 Gly-Pro-Ala-Phe-CHO,          N-carbobenzoyl-Leu-Leu-Phe-CHO,         and   salts     or
   analogs thereof. Other proteasomal inhibitors and their uses are described in
   U.S. Patent No. 6,492,333.
           Autophagy inhibitors
15
           Autophagy      is   an   evolutionarily  conserved    mechanism       for   the
   degradation of cellular components in the cytoplasm, and serves as a cell
   survival mechanism in starving cells. During autophagy pieces of cytoplasm
   become encapsulated by cellular membranes, forming autophagic vacuoles
20 that eventually fuse with lysosomes to have their contents degraded.
   Autophagy inhibitors may be used in combination with an opsin-binding or
   opsin-stabilizing compound of the invention. Autophagy inhibitors useful in
   combination with a of the invention in the methods of the invention include,
   but are not limited to, 3-methyladenine, 3-methyl adenosine, adenosine,
25 okadaic    acid,   N6-mercaptopurine      riboside  (N6 -MPR),   an aminothiolated
   adenosine     analog,     5-amino-4-imidazole     carboxamide    riboside (AICAR),
   bafilomycin Al, and salts or analogs thereof.
           Lysosomal inhibitors
30
           The   lysosome      is a   major site of cellular protein       degradation.
   Degradation of proteins entering the cell by receptor-mediated endocytosis or
   by pinocytosis, and of plasma membrane proteins takes place in lysosomes.
   Lysosomal      inhibitors,   such   as   ammonium      chloride,   leupeptin,    trans
                                              46

   epoxysaccinyl-L-leucylamide-(4-guanidino)        butane,     L-methionine     methyl
   ester, ammonium chloride, methylamine, chloroquine, and salts or analogs
   thereof, are useful in combination with an opsin-binding or opsin-stabilizing
   compound of the invention.
 5
           HSP90 chaperone inhibitors
           Heat shock protein 90 (Hsp9O) is responsible for chaperoning proteins
   involved in cell signaling, proliferation and survival, and is essential for the
10 conformational stability and function of a number of proteins. HSP-90
   inhibitors are useful in combination with an opsin-binding or opsin-stabilizing
   compound in the methods of the invention. HSP-90                 inhibitors include
   benzoquinone      ansamycin     antibiotics, such    as   geldanamycin     and   17
   allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG), which specifically bind to
15 Hsp90, alter its function, and promote the proteolytic degradation of substrate
   proteins. Other HSP-90 inhibitors include, but are not limited to, radicicol,
   novobiocin, and any Hsp90 inhibitor that binds to the Hsp90 ATP/ADP pocket.
           Heat shock response activators
20
           Celastrol, a quinone methide triterpene, activates the human heat
   shock response. In combination with an opsin-binding or opsin-stabilizing
   compound in methods of the invention, celastrol and other heat shock
   response activators are useful for the treatment of PCD. Heat shock response
25 activators include, b ut are not limited to, celastrol, celastrol methyl ester,
   dihydrocelastrol diacetate, celastrol butyl ester, dihydrocelastrol, and salts or
   analogs thereof.
           Histone deacetylase inhibitors
30
           Regulation of gene expression is mediated by several mechanisms,
   including   the   post-translational   modifications    of histones   by    dynamic
   acetylation and deacetylation. The enzymes responsible for reversible
   acetylationl/deacetylation processes are histone acetyltransferases (HATs)
                                             47

   and    histone deacetylases      (HDACs),     respectively.   Histone    deacetylase
   inhibitors include Scriptaid, APHA Compound 8, Apicidin, sodium butyrate, (-)
   Depudecin, Sirtinol, trichostatin A, and salts or analogs thereof. Such
   inhibitors may be used in combination with compounds of the invention in the
 5 methods disclosed herein.
           Glycosidase inhibitors
           Glycosidase inhibitors are one class of compounds that are useful in
10 the methods of the invention, when administered in combination with an
   opsin-binding      or   opsin-stabilizing      compound       of   the     invention.
   Castanospermine, a polyhydroxy alkaloid isolated from plant sources, inhibits
   enzymatic glycoside hydrolysis. Castanospermine and its derivatives are
   particularly useful for the treatment of light toxicity or of an ocular Protein
15 Conformation Disorder, such as RP. Also useful in the methods of the
   invention are other glycosidase inhibitors, including australine hydrochloride,
   6-Acetamido-6-deoxy-castanosperrnine,         which is a powerful        inhibitor of
   hexosaminidases,          Deoxyfuconojirimycin          hydrochloride         (DFJ7),
   Deoxynojirimycin      (DNJ),     which     inhibits   glucosidase      I    and     II,
20 Deoxygalactonojirimycin        hydrochloride     (DGJ),     winch    inhibits    a-D
   galactosidase,      Deoxymannojirimycin         hydrochloride     (DM1),       2R,5R
   Bis(hydroxymethyl)-3R,4R-dihydroxypyrrolidine (DMDP), also known as 2,5
   dideoxy-2,5-imino-D-mannitol,                    1,4-Dideoxy-1,4-imino-D-mannitol
   hydrochloride,    (3R,4R,5R,6R)-3,4,5,6-Tetrahydroxyazepane Hydrochloride,
25 which inhibits b-N-acetylglucosaminidase, 1,5-Dideoxy-1,5-imino-xylitol, which
   inhibits p-glucosidase, and Kifunensine, an inhibitor of mannosidase 1. Also
   useful in combination with an opsin-binding or opsin-stabilizing compound are
   N-butyldeoxynojirimycin      (EDNJ),    N-nonyl     DNJ   (NDND,      N-hexyl    DNJ
   (15TDNJ), N-methyldeoxynojirimycin (MDNJ), and other glycosidase inhibitors
30 known in the art. Glycosidase inhibitors are available commercially, for
   example, from Industrial Research Limited (Wellington, New Zealand) and
   methods of using them are described, for example, in U.S. Patent Nos.
   4,894,388, 5,043,273, 5,103,008, 5,844,102, and 6,831,176; and in U.S.
                                            48

    Patent Publication Nos. 20020006909.
            Pharmaceutical Compositions
 5          The present invention features pharmaceutical preparations comprising
    compounds together with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, where the
    compounds provide for the inhibition of visual cycle products, such as all
    trans-retinal or other products formed from 11-cis-retinal. Such preparations
    have both therapeutic and prophylactic applications. In one embodiment, a
10  pharmaceutical       composition    includes   an   opsin-binding    or    stabilizing
    compound (e.g., a compound identified using the methods of Example 1) or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; optionally in combination with at
    least one additional compound that is a proteasomal inhibitor, an autophagy
    inhibitor, a lysosomal inhibitor, an inhibitor of protein transport from the ER to
15 the Golgi, an Hsp90 chaperone inhibitor, a heat shock response activator, a
   glycosidase inhibitor, or a histone deacetylase inhibitor. The opsin-binding or
   opsin-stabilizing compound is preferably not a natural or synthetic retinoid.
   The opsin-binding or opsin-stabilizing compound and the additional compound
   are formulated together or separately. Compounds of the invention may be
20 administered      as part of a pharmaceutical         composition.    The     non-oral
   compositions should be sterile and contain a therapeutically effective amount
   of the opsin-binding or opsin-stabilizing compound in a unit of weight or
   volume suitable for administration to a subject. The compositions and
   combinations of the invention can be part of a pharmaceutical pack, where
25 each of the compounds is present in individual dosage amounts.
            The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to those compounds
   of the present invention, compositions containing such compounds, and/or
   dosage forms which are, within the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable
30 for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without
   excessive      toxicity, irritation, allergic response,     or  other    problem     or
   complication, commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio.
            Non-oral pharmaceutical compositions of the invention to be used for
                                              49

   prophylactic or therapeutic administration should be sterile. Sterility is readily
   accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes (e.g., 0.2 pIm
   membranes), by gamma irradiation, or any other suitable means known to
   those skilled    in the art. Therapeutic opsin-binding or opsin-stabilizing
 5 compound compositions generally are placed into a container having a sterile
   access port, for example, an intravenous solution bag or vial having a stopper
   pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle. These compositions ordinarily
   will be stored in unit or multi-dose containers, for example, sealed ampoules
   or vials, as an aqueous solution or as a lyophilized formulation for
10 reconstitution.   The compounds        may   be combined,     optionally, with a
   pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
           The components of the pharmaceutical compositions also are capable
   of being co-mingled with the molecules of the present invention, and with
15 each other, in a manner such that there is no interaction that would
   substantially impair the desired pharmaceutical efficacy.
           Compounds      of the   present    invention  can   be  contained     in a
   pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. The excipient preferably contains
   minor amounts of additives such as substances that enhance isotonicity and
20 chemical stability. Such materials are non-toxic to recipients at the dosages
   and concentrations employed, and include buffers such as phosphate, citrate,
   succinate, acetate, lactate, tartrate, and other organic acids or their salts; tris
   hydroxymethylaminomethane         (TRIS),   bicarbonate,  carbonate,   and other
   organic bases and their salts; antioxidants, such as ascorbic acid; low
25 molecular weight (for example, less than about ten residues) polypeptides,
   e.g., polyarginine, polylysine, polyglutamate and polyaspartate; proteins, such
   as serum albumin, gelatin, or immunoglobulins; hydrophilic polymers, such as
   polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), polypropylene glycols (PPGs), and polyethylene
   glycols (PEGs); amino acids, such as glycine, glutamic acid, aspartic acid,
30 histidine, lysine, or arginine; monosaccharides, disaccharides, and other
   carbohydrates including cellulose or its derivatives, glucose, mannose,
   sucrose, dextrins or sulfated carbohydrate derivatives, such as heparin,
   chondroitin sulfate or dextran sulfate; polyvalent metal ions, such as divalent
                                           50

   metal ions including calcium ions, magnesium ions and manganese ions;
   chelating agents, such as ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA); sugar
   alcohols, such as mannitol or sorbitol; counterions, such as sodium or
   ammonium; and/or nonionic surfactants, such as polysorbates or poloxamers.
 5 Other additives may be included, such as stabilizers, anti-microbials, inert
   gases, fluid and nutrient replenishers (i.e., Ringer's dextrose), electrolyte
   replenishers, which can be present in conventional amounts.
           The compositions, as described above, can            be administered in
10 effective amounts. The effective amount will depend upon the mode or
   administration, the particular condition being treated and the desired outcome.
   It may also depend upon the stage of the condition, the age and physical
   condition of the subject, the nature of concurrent therapy, if any, and like
   factors well known to the medical practitioner. For therapeutic applications, it
15 is that amount sufficient to achieve a medically desirable result.
           With respect to a subject suffering from, or at risk of developing, light
   toxicity, such as that due to ocular surgery, an effective amount is an amount
   sufficient to reduce the rate or extent of formation and accumulation of visual
   cycle products, such as all-trans-retinal, or lipofuscin, or A2E as well as
20 preventing photocell apoptosis as a result of excessive rhodopsin activation.
   Here, the compounds of the present invention would be from about 0.01
   mg/kg per day to about 1000 mg/kg per day. It is expected that doses ranging
   from about 50 to about 2000 mg/kg will be suitable. Lower doses will result
   from certain forms of administration, such as intravenous administration. In
25 the event that a response in a subject is insufficient at the initial doses
   applied, higher doses (or effectively higher doses by a different, more
   localized delivery route) may be employed to the extent that patient tolerance
   permits. Multiple doses per day are contemplated to achieve appropriate
   systemic levels of a composition of the present invention.
30
           A variety of administration routes are available. The methods of the
   invention, generally speaking, may be practiced           using    any mode of
   administration that is medically acceptable, meaning any mode that produces
   effective   levels  of the    active   compounds     without   causing  clinically
                                           51

   unacceptable adverse effects. In one preferred embodiment, a composition of
   the invention is administered intraocularly. Other modes of administration
   include oral, rectal, topical, intraocular, buccal, intravaginal, intracisternal,
   intracerebroventricular, intratracheal, nasal, transdermal, within/on implants,
 5 or parenteral routes. Compositions comprising a composition of the invention
   can be added to a physiological fluid, such as to the intravitreal humor. For
   CNS administration, a variety of techniques are available for promoting
   transfer of the therapeutic across the blood brain barrier including disruption
   by surgery or injection, drugs which transiently open adhesion contact
10 between the CNS vasculature endothelial cells, and compounds that facilitate
   translocation through such cells. Oral administration can be preferred for
   prophylactic treatment because of the convenience to the patient as well as
   the dosing schedule.
           Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can optionally further
15 contain one or more additional proteins as desired, including plasma proteins,
   proteases, and other biological material, so long as it does not cause adverse
   effects upon administration to a subject. Suitable proteins or biological
   material may be obtained from human or mammalian plasma by any of the
   purification methods known and available to those skilled in the art; from
20 supernatants, extracts, or lysates of recombinant tissue culture, viruses,
   yeast, bacteria, or the like that contain a gene that expresses a human or
   mammalian      plasma   protein which      has been    introduced    according    to
                standard recombinant DNA techniques; or from the fluids (e.g.,
   blood, milk, lymph, urine or the like) or transgenic animals that contain a gene
25 that expresses a human plasma protein which has been introduced according
   to standard transgenic techniques.
           Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can comprise one or
   more pH buffering compounds to maintain the pH of the formulation at a
30 predetermined level that reflects physiological pH, such as in the range of
   about 5.0 to about 8.0 (e.g., 6.0, 6.5, 6.8, 6.9, 7.0, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6,
   7.8). The pH buffering compound used in the aqueous liquid formulation can
   be an amino acid or mixture of amino acids, such as histidine or a mixture of
   amino acids such as histidine and glycine. Alternatively, the pH buffering
                                           52

   compound is preferably an agent which maintains the pH of the formulation at
   a predetermined level, such as in the range of about 5.0 to about 8.0, and
   which does not chelate calcium ions. Illustrative examples of such pH
   buffering compounds include, but are not limited to, imidazole and acetate
 5 ions. The pH buffering compound may be present in any amount suitable to
   maintain the pH of the formulation at a predetermined level.
            Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can also contain one or
   more osmotic modulating agents, i.e., a compound that modulates the
10 osmotic properties (e.g., tonicity, osmolality and/or osmotic pressure) of the
   formulation to a level that is acceptable to the blood stream and blood cells of
   recipient individuals. The osmotic modulating agent can be an agent that does
   not chelate calcium ions. The osmotic modulating agent can               be any
   compound known or available to those skilled in the art that modulates the
15 osmotic properties of the formulation. One skilled in the art may empirically
   determine the suitability of a given osmotic modulating agent for use in the
   inventive formulation. Illustrative examples of suitable types of osmotic
   modulating agents include, but are not limited to: salts, such as sodium
   chloride and sodium acetate; sugars, such as sucrose, dextrose, and
20 mannitol; amino acids, such as glycine; and mixtures of one or more of these
   agents and/or types of agents. The osmotic modulating agent(s) maybe
   present in any concentration sufficient to modulate the osmotic properties of
   the formulation.
25          Compositions    comprising   an    opsin-binding   or   opsin-stabilizing
   compound of the present invention can contain multivalent metal ions, such
   as calcium ions, magnesium ions and/or manganese ions. Any multivalent
   metal ion that helps stabilize the composition and that will not adversely affect
   recipient individuals may be used. The skilled artisan, based on these two
30 criteria, can determine suitable metal ions empirically and suitable sources of
   such metal ions are known, and include inorganic and organic salts.
            Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can also be a non
   aqueous     liquid formulation.  Any suitable    non-aqueous     liquid may be
                                           53

   employed, provided that it provides stability to the active agents (a) contained
   therein. Preferably, the non-aqueous liquid is a hydrophilic liquid. Illustrative
   examples of suitable non-aqueous liquids include: glycerol;      dimethyl
   sulfoxide (DMSO); polydimethylsiloxane (PMS); ethylene glycols, such as
 5 ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, polyethylene glycol
   ("PEG") 200, PEG 300, and PEG 400; and propylene glycols, such as
   dipropylene glycol, tripropylene glycol, polypropylene glycol ("PPG") 425, PPG
   725, PPG 1000, PEG 2000, PEG 3000 and PEG 4000.
10         Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can also be a mixed
   aqueous/non-aqueous liquid formulation. Any suitable non-aqueous liquid
   formulation, such as those described above, can be employed along with any
   aqueous liquid formulation, such as those described above, provided that the
   mixed aqueous/non-aqueous          liquid formulation provides stability to the
15 compound contained therein. Preferably, the non- aqueous liquid in such a
   formulation is a hydrophilic liquid. Illustrative examples of suitable non
   aqueous liquids include: glycerol; DMSO; EMS; ethylene glycols, such as
   PEG 200, PEG 300, and PEG 400; and propylene glycols, such as PPG 425,
   PPG 725, PEG 1000, PEG 2000, PEG 3000 and PEG 4000. Suitable stable
20 formulations can permit storage of the active agents in a frozen or an
   unfrozen liquid      state. Stable    liquid formulations   can  be stored  at a
   temperature of at least -70 *C, but can also be stored at higher temperatures
   of at least 0   0C, or between about 0 *C and about 42 *C, depending on the
   properties of the composition. It is generally known to the skilled artisan that
25 proteins and polypeptides are sensitive to changes in pH, temperature, and a
   multiplicity of other factors that may affect therapeutic efficacy.
           In certain embodiments a desirable route of administration can be by
   pulmonary aerosol. Techniques for preparing             aerosol delivery systems
30 containing polypeptides are well known to those of skill in the art. Generally,
   such systems should utilize components that will not significantly impair the
   biological properties of the antibodies, such as the paratope binding capacity
   (see,    for  example,     Sciarra    and    Cutie, "Aerosols,"   in  Remington's
   Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th edition, 1990, pp 1694-1712; incorporated by
                                              54

   reference). Those of skill in the art can readily modify the various parameters
   and conditions for producing polypeptide aerosols without resorting to undue
   experimentation.
 5         Other delivery systems can include time-release, delayed release or
   sustained release delivery systems. Such systems can avoid repeated
   administrations of compositions of the invention, increasing convenience to
   the subject and the physician. Many types of release delivery systems are
   available and known to those of ordinary skill in the art. They include polymer
10 base systems such as polylactides (U.S. Pat. No. 3,773,919; European Patent
   No.    58,481),    poly(lactide-glycolide),  copolyoxalates   polycaprolactones,
   polyesteramides, polyorthoesters, poiyhydroxybutyric acids, such as poly-D-(
   )-3-hydroxybutyric acid (European Patent No. 133,988), copolymers of L
   glutamic acid and gamma-ethyl-L-glutamate (Sidman, KR. et at, Biopolymers
15 22: 547-556), poly (2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate) or ethylene vinyl acetate
   (Langer, et al., J. Biomed. Mater. Res. 15:267-277; Langer, B.. Chem. Tech.
   12:98-105), and polyanhydrides.
           Other examples of sustained-release compositions include semi
20 permeable polymer matrices in the form of shaped articles, e.g., films, or
   microcapsules. Delivery systems also include non-polymer systems that are:
   lipids including sterols such as cholesterol, cholesterol esters and fatty acids
   or neutral fats such as mono-, di- and tri-glycerides; hydrogel release systems
   such as biologically-derived bioresorbable hydrogel (i.e., chitin hydrogels or
25 chitosan hydrogels); sylastic systems; peptide based systems; wax coatings;
   compressed tablets using conventional binders and excipients; partially filled
   implants; and the like. Specific examples include, but are not limited to: (a)
   aerosional systems in which the agent is contained in a form within a matrix
   such as those described in 13.5. Patent Nos. 4,452,775, 4,667,014, 4,748,034
30 and 5,239,660 and (b) diffusional systems in which an active component
   permeates at a controlled rate from a polymer such as described in U.S.
   Patent Nos. 3,832,253, and 3,854,480.
           Another type of delivery system that can be used with the methods and
                                             55

   compositions of the invention is a colloidal dispersion system. Colloidal
   dispersion     systems     include  lipid-based   systems   including   oil-in-water
   emulsions, micelles, mixed micelles, and liposomes. Liposomes are artificial
   membrane vessels, which are useful as a delivery vector in vivo or in vitro.
 5 Large unilamellar vessels (LUV), which range in size from 0.2 - 4.0 .tm, can
   encapsulate large macromolecules within the aqueous interior and be
   delivered   to    cells   in a biologically active      form   (Fraley,    R,   and
   Papahadjopoulos, D., Trends Biochem. Sci. 6: 77-80).
10         Liposomes can be targeted to a particular tissue by coupling the
   liposome to a specific ligand such as a monoclonal antibody, sugar, glycolipid,
   or protein. Liposomes are commercially available from Gibco BRL, for
   example, as LIPOFECTIN T M and LIPOFECTACETM , which are formed of
   cationic     lipids     such     as      N-[1-(2,  3    dioleyloxy)-propyl]-N,N,N
15 trimethylammonium chloride (DOTMA) and dimethyl dioctadecylammonium
   bromide (DDAB). Methods for making liposomes are well known in the art and
   have been described in many publications, for example, in DE 3,218,121;
   Epstein et al., Proc. NatI. Acad. Sci. (USA) 82:3688-3692 (1985); K. Hwang et
   al., Proc. NatI. Acad. Sci. (USA) 77:4030-4034 (1980); EP 52,322; EP 36,676;
20 EP 88,046; EP 143,949; EP 142,641; Japanese Pat. Apple. 83-118008; U.S.
   Pat. Nos. 4,485,045 and 4,544,545; and EP 102,324. Liposomes also have
   been reviewed by Gregoriadis, G., Trends Biotechnol., 3: 235-241.
           Another type of vehicle is a biocompatible microparticle or implant that
25 is suitable for implantation        into the mammalian      recipient. Exemplary
   bioerodible implants that are useful in accordance with this method are
   described in PCT International application no. PCTIUS/03307 (Publication No
   WO 95/24929, entitled "Polymeric Gene Delivery System"). PCT/US/0307
   describes biocompatible, preferably biodegradable polymeric matrices for
30 containing an exogenous gene under the control of an appropriate promoter.
   The polymeric matrices can be used to achieve sustained release of the
   exogenous gene or gene product in the subject.
                                              56

           The polymeric matrix preferably is in the form of a microparticle such
   as a microsphere (wherein an agent is dispersed throughout a solid polymeric
    matrix) or a microcapsule (wherein an agent is stored in the core of a
   polymeric shell). Microcapsules of the foregoing polymers containing drugs
 5 are described in, for example, U.S. Patent 5,075,109. Other forms of the
   polymeric matrix for containing an agent include films, coatings, gels,
   implants, and stents. The size and composition of the polymeric matrix device
   is selected to result in favorable release kinetics in the tissue into which the
   matrix is introduced. The size of the polymeric matrix further is selected
10 according to the method of delivery that is to be used. Preferably, when an
   aerosol route is used the polymeric matrix and composition are encompassed
   in a surfactant vehicle. The polymeric matrix composition can be selected to
   have both favorable degradation rates and also to be formed of a material,
   which is a bioadhesive, to further increase the effectiveness of transfer. The
15 matrix composition also can be selected not to degrade, but rather to release
   by diffusion over an extended period of time. The delivery system can also be
   a biocompatible microsphere that is suitable for local, site-specific delivery.
   Such microspheres are disclosed in Chickering, D.B., et al., Biotechnot.
   Bioeng, 52: 96-101; Mathiowitz, B., et at., Nature 386: 410-414.
20
           Both non-biodegradable and biodegradable polymeric matrices can be
   used to deliver the compositions of the invention to the subject. Such
   polymers may be natural or synthetic polymers. The polymer is selected
   based on the period of time over which release is desired, generally in the
25 order of a few hours to a year or longer. Typically, release over a period
   ranging from between a few hours and three to twelve months is most
   desirable. The polymer optionally is in the form of a hydrogel that can absorb
   up to about 90% of its weight in water and further, optionally is cross-linked
   with multivalent ions or other polymers.
30
           Exemplary synthetic polymers which         can be used to form the
   biodegradable     delivery   system    include:   polyamides,    polycarbonates,
   polyalkylenes,    polyalkylene   glycols,   polyalkylene  oxides,   polyalkylene
   terephthalates, polyvinyl alcohols, polyvinyl ethers, polyvinyl esters, polyvinyl
                                           57

    halides, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyglycolides, polysiloxanes, polyurethanes
   and copolymers thereof, alkyl cellulose, hydroxyalkyl celluloses, cellulose
   ethers, cellulose esters, nitro celluoses, polymers of acrylic and methacrylic
   esters,     methyl    cellulose,    ethyl   cellulose,     hydroxypropyl       cellulose,
 5  hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose, hydroxybutyl methyl cellulose, cellulose
    acetate, cellulose propionate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose acetate
    phthalate, carboxylethyl cellulose, cellulose triacetate, cellulose sulfate
   sodium salt, poly(methyl methacrylate), poly(ethyl methacrylate), poly(butyl
    methacrylate),     poly(isobutyl     methacrylate),     poly(hexyl      methacrylate),
10  poly(isodecyl     methacrylate),      poly(lauryl     methacrylate),        poly(phenyl
    methacrylate), poly(methyl acrylate), poly(isopropyl acrylate), poly(isobutyl
    acrylate), poly(octadecyl acrylate), polyethylene, polypropylene, poly(ethylene
   glycol),    poly(ethylene    oxide),    poly(ethylene     terephthalate),      poly(vinyl
   alcohols), poly(vinyl acetate), poly(vinyl chloride), polystyrene, poly(vinyl
15  pyrrolidone), and polymers of lactic acid and glycolic acid, polyanhydrides,
    poly(ortho)esters,    poly(butic acid),    poly(valeric    acid),   and   poly(lactide
   cocaprolactone),      and   natural   polymers     such    as    alginate    and    other
   polysaccharides      including    dextran    and    cellulose,     collagen,   chemical
   derivatives thereof (substitutions, additions of chemical groups, for example,
20 alkyl, alkylene, hydroxylations, oxidations, and other modifications routinely
   made by those skilled in the art), albumin and other hydrophilic proteins, zein
   and other prolamines and hydrophobic proteins, copolymers and mixtures
   thereof. In general, these materials degrade either by enzymatic hydrolysis or
   exposure to water in vivo, by surface or bulk erosion.
25
            Methods of Ocular Delivery
           The compositions of the invention are particularly suitable for treating
   ocular diseases or conditions, such as light toxicity, in particular light toxicity
30 related to an ocular surgical procedure.
            In one approach, the compositions of the invention are administered
   through an ocular device suitable for direct implantation into the vitreous of
   the eye. The compositions of the invention may be provided in sustained
                                             58

   release compositions, such as those described in, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos.
   5,672,659 and 5,595,760. Such devices are found to provide sustained
   controlled release of various compositions to treat the eye without risk of
   detrimental local and systemic side effects. An object of the present ocular
 5 method of delivery is to maximize the amount of drug contained in an
   intraocular device or implant while minimizing its size in order to prolong the
   duration of the implant. See, e.g., U.S. Patents 5,378,475; 6,375,972, and
   6,756,058 and U.S. Publications 20050096290 and 200501269448. Such
   implants may be biodegradable and/or biocompatible implants, or may be
10 non-biodegradable implants.
           Biodegradable ocular implants are described, for example, in U.S.
   Patent Publication No. 20050048099. The implants may be permeable or
   impermeable to the active agent, and may be inserted into a chamber of the
15 eye, such as the anterior or posterior chambers or may be implanted in the
   sclera, transchoroidal space, or an avascularized region exterior to the
   vitreous. Alternatively, a contact lens that acts as a depot for compositions of
   the invention may also be used for drug delivery.
20         In a preferred embodiment, the implant may be positioned over an
   avascular region, such as on the sclera, so as to allow for transcleral diffusion
   of the drug to the desired site of treatment, e.g. the intraocular space and
   macula of the eye. Furthermore, the site of transcleral diffusion is preferably in
   proximity to the macula. Examples of implants for delivery of a composition of
25 the invention include, but are not limited to, the devices described in U.S. Pat.
   Nos. 3,416,530; 3,828,777; 4,014,335; 4,300,557; 4,327,725; 4,853,224;
   4,946,450; 4,997,652; 5,147,647; 164,188; 5,178,635; 5,300,114; 5,322,691;
   5,403,901;     5,443,505;    5,466,466;    5,476,511;    5,516,522;    5,632,984;
   5,679,666;     5,710,165;    5,725,493;    5,743,274;    5,766,242;    5,766,619;
30 5,770,592;     5,773,019;    5,824,072;    5,824,073;    5,830,173;    5,836,935;
   5,869,079,     5,902,598;    5,904,144;    5,916,584;    6,001,386;    6,074,661;
   6,110,485; 6,126,687; 6,146.366; 6,251,090; and 6,299,895, and in WO
   01/30323 and WO 01/28474, all of which are incorporated herein by
   reference.
                                           59

           Examples include, but are not limited to the following: a sustained
   release drug delivery system comprising an inner reservoir comprising an
   effective amount of an agent effective in obtaining a desired local or systemic
   physiological or pharmacological effect, an inner tube impermeable to the
 5 passage of the agent, the inner tube having first and second ends and
   covering at least a portion of the inner reservoir, the inner tube sized and
   formed of a material so that the inner tube is capable of supporting its own
   weight, an impermeable member positioned at the inner tube first end, the
   impermeable member preventing passage of the agent out of the reservoir
10 through the inner tube first end, and a permeable member positioned at the
   inner tube second end, the permeable member allowing diffusion of the agent
   out of the reservoir through the inner tube second end; a method for
   administering a compound of the invention to a segment of an eye, the
   method comprising the step of implanting a sustained release device to
15 deliver the compound of the invention to the vitreous of the eye or an
   implantable, sustained release device for administering a compound of the
   invention to a segment of an eye; a sustained release drug delivery device
   comprising: a) a drug core comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at
   least one first agent effective in obtaining a diagnostic effect or effective in
20 obtaining a desired local or systemic physiological or pharmacological effect;
   b) at least one unitary cup essentially impermeable to the passage of the
   agent that surrounds and defines an internal compartment to accept the drug
   core, the unitary cup comprising an open top end with at least one recessed
   groove around at least some portion of the open top end of the unitary cup; c)
25 a permeable plug which is permeable to the passage of the agent, the
   permeable plug is positioned at the open top end of the unitary cup wherein
   the groove interacts with the permeable plug holding it in position and closing
   the open top end, the permeable plug allowing passage of the agent out of the
   drug core, though the permeable plug, and out the open top end of the unitary
30 cup; and d) at least one second agent effective in obtaining a diagnostic effect
   or effective in obtaining a desired local or systemic physiological or
   pharmacological    effect;  or a sustained     release  drug   delivery  device
   comprising: an inner core comprising an effective amount of an agent having
   a desired solubility and a polymer coating layer, the polymer layer being
                                          60

     permeable to the agent, wherein the polymer coating layer completely covers
    the inner core.
            Other approaches for ocular delivery include the use of liposomes to
  5 target a compound of the present invention to the eye, and preferably to
    retinal pigment epithelial cells and/or Bruch's membrane. For example, the
    compound maybe complexed with liposomes in the manner described above,
    and    this  compound/liposome      complex     injected  into   patients with   an
    ophthalmic condition, such as light toxicity, using intravenous injection to
 10 direct the compound to the desired ocular tissue or cell. Directly injecting the
    liposome complex into the proximity of the retinal pigment epithelial cells or
    Bruch's membrane can also provide for targeting of the complex with some
    forms of ocular PCD. In a specific embodiment, the compound is administered
    via intra-ocular sustained delivery (such as VITRASERT or ENVISION. In a
15  specific embodiment, the compound is delivered by posterior subtenons
    injection. In another specific embodiment, microemulsion particles containing
    the compositions of the invention are delivered to ocular tissue to take up lipid
    from Bruchs membrane, retinal pigment epithelial cells, or both.
20          Nanoparticles are a colloidal carrier system that has been shown to
    improve the efficacy of the encapsulated drug by prolonging the serum half
    life. Polyalkylcyanoacrylates (PACAs) nanoparticles are a polymer colloidal
    drug delivery system that is in clinical development, as described by Stella et
    al, J. Pharm. Sci, 2000. 89: p. 1452-1464; Brigger et al., Tnt. J. Pharm., 2001.
25  214: p. 37-42; Calvo et al., Pharm. Res., 2001. 18: p. 1157-1166; and Li et al.
    Biol. Pharm. Bull., 2001. 24: p. 662-665. Biodegradable poly (hydroxyl acids),
    such as the copolymers of poly (lactic acid) (PLA) and poly (lactic-co
    glycolide) (PLGA) are being extensively used in biomedical applications and
    have received FDA approval for certain clinical applications. In addition, PEG
30  PLGA nanoparticles have many desirable carrier features including (i) that the
    agent to be encapsulated comprises a reasonably high weight fraction
    (loading) of the total carrier system; (ii) that the amount of agent used in the
    first step of the encapsulation process is incorporated into the final carrier
    (entrapment efficiency) at a reasonably high level; (iii) that the carrier have the
                                            61

   ability to be freeze-dried and reconstituted in solution without aggregation; (iv)
   that the carrier be biodegradable; (v) that the carrier system be of small size;
   and (vi) that the carrier enhance the particles persistence.
 5          Nanoparticles are synthesized using virtually any biodegradable shell
   known in the art. In one embodiment, a polymer, such as poly (lactic-acid)
   (PLA) or poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) is used. Such polymers are
   biocompatible and biodegradable, and are subject to modifications that
   desirably increase the photochemical efficacy and circulation lifetime of the
10 nanoparticle. In one embodiment, the polymer is modified with a terminal
   carboxylic acid group (COOH) that increases the negative charge of the
   particle and thus limits the interaction with negatively charge nucleic acid
   aptamers. Nanoparticles are also modified with polyethylene glycol (PEG),
   which also increases the half-life and stability of the particles in circulation.
15 Alternatively, the COOH group is converted to an N-hydroxysuccinimide
   (NHS) ester for covalent conjugation to amine-modified aptamers.
            Biocompatible polymers useful in the composition and methods of the
   invention    include, but are not limited to,        polyamides, polycarbonates,
20 polyalkylenes,     polyalkylene   glycols,   polyalkylene     oxides,    polyalkylene
   terephthalates, polyvinyl alcohols, polyvinyl ethers, polyvinyl esters, polyvinyl
   halides, poly(vinyl pyrrolidone), polyglycolides, polysiloxanes, polyurethanes
   and copolymers thereof, alkyl cellulose, hydroxyalkyl celluloses, cellulose
   ethers, cellulose esters, nitro celluloses, polymers of acrylic and methacrylic
25 esters,     methyl    cellulose,   ethyl   cellulose,     hydroxypropyl     cellulose,
   hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose, hydroxybutyl           methyl cellulose, cellulose
   acetate, cellulose propionate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose acetate
   phthalate,    carboxylethyl cellulose, cellulose      triacetate, cellulose sulfate
   sodium salt poly-methyl methacrylate), poly(ethyl methacrylate), poly(butyl
30 methacrylate),      poly(isobutyl    methacrylate\      poly(hexyl    methacrylate),
   poly(isodecyl      methacrylate),     poly(lauryl     methacrylate),      poly(phenyl
   methacrylate), poly(methyl acrylate), poly(isopropyl acrylate), poly(isobutyl
   acrylate), poly(octadecyl acrylate), polyethylene, polypropylene poly(ethylene
   glycol),    poly(ethylene    oxide),   poly(ethylene     terephthalate),    poly(vinyl
                                            62

     alcohols),   polyvinyl    acetate,    polyvinyl  chloride   polystyrene,   poly(vinyl
     pyrrolidone), polyhyaluronic acids, casein, gelatin, glutin, polyanhydrides,
     polyacrylic acid, alginate, chitosan, poly(methyl methacrylates), poly(ethyl
     methacrylates),     poly(butyl     methacrylate),    poly(isobutyl    methacrylate),
  5  poly(hexyl     methacrylate)        poly(isodecyl      methaerylate),     poly(lauryl
     methacrylate), poly(phenyl methacrylate), poly(methyl acrylate), poly(isopropyl
     acrylatee), poly(isobutyl acrylate), poly(octadecyl acrylate) and combinations
     of any of these, In one embodiment, the nanoparticles of the invention include
     PEG-PLGA polymers.
 10
             Compositions of the invention may also be delivered topically. For
    topical delivery, the compositions are provided in any pharmaceutically
     acceptable excipient that is approved for ocular delivery. Preferably, the
     composition is delivered in drop form to the surface of the eye. For some
15   application, the delivery of the composition relies         on the diffusion of the
     compounds through the cornea to the interior of the eye.
             Those of skill in the art will recognize that treatment regimens for using
    the compounds of the present invention to treat light toxicity or other
20  ophthalmic conditions (e.g., RP) can be straightforwardly determined. This is
     not a question of experimentation, but rather one of optimization, which is
    routinely conducted in the medical arts. In vivo studies in nude mice often
    provide a starting point from which to begin to optimize the dosage and
    delivery regimes. The frequency of injection will initially be once a week, as
25  has been done in some mice studies. However, this frequency might be
    optimally adjusted from one day to every two weeks to monthly, depending
    upon the results obtained front the initial clinical trials and the needs of a
    particular patient.
30           Human dosage amounts can initially be determined by extrapolating
    from the amount of compound used in mice, as a skilled artisan recognizes it
    is routine in the art to modify the dosage for humans compared to animal
    models. For certain embodiments it is envisioned that the dosage may vary
    from between about 1 mg compound/Kg body weight to about 5000 mg
                                               63

     compound/Kg body weight; or from about 5 mg/Kg body weight to about 4000
     mg/Kg body weight or from about 10mg/Kg body weight to about 3000 mg/Kg
     body weight; or from about 50mg/Kg body weight to about 2000 mg/Kg body
    weight; or from about 100 mg/Kg body weight to about 1000 mg/Kg body
  5 weight; or from about 150 mg/Kg body weight to about 500 mg/Kg body
    weight. In other embodiments this dose maybe about 1, 5, 10, 25, 50,75, 100,
     150, 10 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750, 800, 850,
    900, 950, 1000, 1050, 1100, 1150, 1200, 1250, 1300, 1350, 1400, 1450,
     1500, 1600, 1700, 1800, 1900, 2000, 2500, 3000, 3500, 4000, 4500, 5000
 10  mg/Kg body weight. in other embodiments, it is envisaged that lower does
    may be used, such doses may be in the range of about 5 mg compound/Kg
    body to about 20 mg compound/Kg body. In other embodiments the doses
    may be about 8, 10, 12, 14, 16 15 or 18 mg/Kg body weight. Of course, this
    dosage amount may be adjusted upward or downward, as is routinely done in
15  such treatment protocols, depending on the results of the initial clinical trials
    and the needs of a particular patient.
            Screening Assays
20          Useful compounds of the invention are compounds of the formula (1)
    that reversibly bind to a native or mutated opsin protein, such as in or near the
     11-cis-retinal binding pocket.      The non bleachable or slowly bleachable
    pigment rhodopsins formed from these small molecule opsin bindings will
    prevent light toxicity related to, for example, the accumulation of visual cycle
25  products as well as apoptotic photocell death resulting from excessive
    rhodopsin stimulation.     Such binding will commonly inhibit, if not prevent,
    binding of retinoids, especially 11-cis-retinal, to the binding pocket and
    thereby reduce formation of visual cycle products, such as all-trans-retinal.
    Any number of methods are available for carrying out screening assays to
30  identify such compounds, In one approach, an opsin protein is contacted with
    a candidate compound or test compound that is a non-retinoid in the presence
    of 11-cis-retinal or retinoid analog and the rate or yield of formation of
    chromophore is determined.        If desired, the binding of the non-retinoid to
    opsin is characterized.    Preferably, the non-retinoid binding to opsin is non
                                             64

    covalent and reversible. Thus, inhibition of rhodopsin formation by a non
    retinoid indicates identification of a successful test compound. An increase in
    the amount of rhodopsin is assayed, for example, by measuring the protein's
    absorption at a characteristic wavelength (e.g., 498 nm for rhodopsin) or by
  5 measuring an increase in the biological activity of the protein using any
    standard method (e.g., enzymatic activity association with a ligand). Useful
    compounds inhibit binding of 11-cis-retinal (and formation of rhodopsin) by at
    least about 10%, 15%, or 20%, or preferably by 25%, 50%, or 75%, or most
    preferably by up to 90% or even 100%.
 10
            Alternatively, the efficacy of compounds useful in the methods of the
    invention may be determined by exposure of a mammalian eye to a high
    intensity light source prior to, during, or following administration of a test
    compound, followed by determination of the amount of visual cycle products
15  (e.g., all-trans retinal, A2E, or lipofuscin) formed as a result of exposure to the
    high intensity light source, wherein a compound of the invention will have
    reduced the amount of visual cycle products related to the exposure.
            In sum, preferred test compounds identified by the screening methods
20  of the invention are non-retinoids, are selective for opsin and bind in a
    reversible,    non-covalent manner        to   opsin protein.   In  addition,  their
    administration to transgenic animals otherwise producing increased lipofuscin
    results in a reduced rate of production or a reduced accumulation of lipofuscin
    in the eye of said animal. Compounds identified according to the methods of
25  the invention are useful for the treatment of light toxicity or other ophthalmic
    condition in a subject, such as a human patient.
            Compositions of the invention useful for the prevention of light toxicity,
    as well as AMD and retinitis pigmentosa, can optionally be combined with
30  additional therapies as heretofore described.
                                             EXAMPLES
            The following non-limiting examples further describe and enable one of
                                               65

   ordinary skill in the art to make use of the invention.
   Example              1:         6-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
 5 Example 1a: isoquinolin-6-yl(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enyl)methanol
           A solution      of 6-bromoisoquinoline   (274 mg,     1.3   mmol)   in dry
   tetrahydrofuran (2 mL) was added dropwise to a solution of n-butyl lithium (1.6
   M in hexane, 0.8 mL, 1.3 mmol) at -78 0C and stirred at this temperature for
   30 minutes. Then 2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enecarbaldehyde (100 mg, 0.66
10 mmol) in dry tetrahydrofuran (1.5 mL) was added and stirring at -78        0C  was
   continued for 1 hour after which the reaction was allowed to warm slowly to
   room temperature. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous
   ammonium chloride and the organics extracted extracted with ethyl acetate.
   The combined organic phase was washed with brine, dried over anhydrous
15 sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was
   purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound (131
   mg, Yield: 71%).      Rf 0.5 (2:1 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate); 1H NMR (400
   MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 9.22 (s, 1 H), 8.50 (d, J = 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.92 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 2
   H), 7.65 (d, J = 6.4 Hz, 2 H), 5.55 (s, 1 H), 2.00 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 1.74-1.56
20 (m, 5 H), 1.33 (s, 3 H), 1.24 (s, 3 H), 1.17 (s, 3 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI
   +ve) m/z 282 (M + H*).
   Example 1b: isoquinolin-6-yl(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enyl)methanone
           To a solution of the product of Example la (130 mg, 0.46 mmol) in
25 dichloromethane (5 mL) at 0     0C was added Dess-Martin periodinane (529 mg,
   1.25 mmol) and the reaction was stirred for 30 minutes. The mixture was then
   diluted with petroleum ether and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under
   reduced pressure and the residue purified purified by silica gel column
   chromatography to give the title compound (96 mg, Yield: 74%). Rf 0.4 (5:1
30 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate);     1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 9.34 (s, 1 H),
   8.62 (d, J = 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 8.37 (s, 1 H), 8.16 (dd, J, = 8.4 Hz, J2 = 1.6 Hz, 1 H),
                                             66

   8.06 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.79 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 2.15 (t, J = 6.4 Hz, 2 H),
   1.84-1.79 (m, 2 H), 1.63-1.60 (m, 2 H), 1.47 (s, 3 H), 1.07 (s, 6 H) ppm.
   Example 1c: (1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-6-y)(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex
 5 1-enyl)methanone
           To the product of Example lb (87 mg, 0.31 mmol) in acetic acid (2 mL)
   was added platinum dioxide (14 mg) and the reaction was stirred under an
   atmosphere of hydrogen for 3 hours at room temperature. The mixture was
   filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was
10 dissolved in ethyl acetate and adjusted to pH = 8 with saturated aqueous
   sodium bicarbonate and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate.
   The combined organic phase was washed with brine, dried over anhydrous
   sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was
   purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the title compound (76.5
15 mg, Yield: 86%). Rf 0.5 (10:1 dichloromethane/methanol);        1H NMR (400 MHz,
   CDCl 3 ) 6 7.70 (s, 1 H), 7.66 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 7.08 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1 H), 4.08
   (s, 2 H), 3.18 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.89 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 2 H), 2.08 (t, J = 6.4 Hz,
   2 H), 1.78-1.74 (m, 2 H), 1.56-1.53 (m, 2 H), 1.43 (s, 3 H), 1.03 (s, 6 H) ppm;
   Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z 284 (M + H*).
20
   Example 1: 6-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
           To a solution of the product of Example 1c (30 mg, 0.11 mmol) in
   dichloromethane (2 mL) was added triethylamine (43 mg, 0.42 mmol) and
25 isocyanatotrimethylsilane (38 mg, 0.33 mmol) and the reaction mixture was
   stirred at room temperature for 2 days. The mixture was diluted with
   dichloromethane and then washed with water, saturated aqueous ammonium
   chloride, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, brine, dried over anhydrous
   sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was
30 purified by prep-TLC to afford the title compound as a white solid (23 mg,
   Yield: 67%). Mp = 86.4-87.6 'C; Rf 0.6 (10:1 dichloromethane/methanol);           1H
   NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 7.77 (s, 1 H), 7.73 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.21 (d, J =
   8.0 Hz, 1 H), 4.64 (s, 2 H), 4.52 (bs, 2 H), 3.64 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 2 H), 2.97 (t, J =
                                             67

   5.8 Hz, 2 H), 2.08 (t, J = 6.4 Hz, 2 H), 1.78-1.76 (m, 2 H), 1.57-1.54 (m, 2 H),
   1.43 (s, 3 H), 1.03 (s, 6 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z 327 (M + H*).
   Example 2: 6-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enyl)methyl)-3,4
 5 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
           To a solution of the product of Example 1 (32 mg, 0.098 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (2 mL) at 0 0C was added lithium aluminum hydride (22 mg,
   0.588 mmol). The reaction was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 1
   hour. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride
10 and the organics extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phase
   was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, brine, dried over
   anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The
   residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the title
   compound as a white solid (20 mg, Yield: 62%). Mp = 88.3-89.0           0C; Rf 0.55
15 (10:1 dichloromethane/methanol); 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 7.26 (s, 1 H),
   7.20 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 7.06 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 5.38 (d, J = 4.4 Hz, 1 H),
   4.56 (s, 2 H), 4.50 (bs, 2 H), 3.63 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.89 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 2 H),
   1.99 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 1.83 (d, J = 5.2 Hz, 1 H), 1.68-1.64 (m, 2 H), 1.56
   1.52 (m, 2 H), 1.40 (s, 3 H), 1.19 (s, 3 H), 1.05 (s, 3 H) ppm; Mass spectrum
20 (ESI +ve) m/z 329 (M + H*).
   Example 3: 6-((S)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
25 Example 3a: (S)-3,7-dimethylocta-1,6-dienyl acetate
          A 50 mL round-bottom-flask equipped with a condenser was charged
   with acetic anhydride (6.1 mL, 64.8 mmol), potassium acetate (0.51 g, 5.18
   mmol) and triethylamine (4.5 mL, 32.4 mmol). To the stirred mixture was (S)
   3,7-dimethyloct-6-enal (5.0 g, 32.4 mmol) slowly. The reaction mixture was
30 heated to 120 OC for 7.5 hours. After cooling to room temperature, the reaction
   mixture was poured into water (25 mL) and then extracted with toluene (10
   mL).   The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium
   carbonate (25 mL x 2) and brine (25 mL). The material was transferred to a 50
                                            68

   ml round-bottom-flask and the separatory funnel was washed with toluene (1
   mL). The solution of the title compound in toluene (11 ml) (15.7 g) was used
   directly for the next step. Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z 187 (M+H*).
 5 Example 3b: (1R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexanecarbaldehyde
           A solution of crude product of Example 3a (6.36 g, 32.4 mmol) in
   toluene (11 mL) (15.7 g) was added 85% phosphoric acid (12 mL). The
   mixture was heated to 100 C for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to
   room temperature and toluene (12 mL) along with water (24 mL) was added
10 and the layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with toluene
   (12 mL x 2). The combined organic layers were washed with saturated
   aqueous sodium bicarbonate          (50 mL x 2) and      brine (50 mL x 2).
   Concentration and distillation under reduced pressure (b.p. 65 - 70 0C)
   afforded the title compound as a 9:1 mixture of epimers as a colorless oil
15 (2.51 g, Yield: 50%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13 ) (Major) 6 9.63 (d, J = 5.2 Hz,
   1H), 2.03-1.91 (m, 1H), 1.83-1.75 (m, 1H), 1.64-1.60 (m, 1H), 1.54-1.48 (m,
   1H), 1.40-1.35 (m, 1H), 1.24-1.14 (m, 1H), 1.02 (s, 3H), 0.97 (s, 3H), 0.95
   0.84 (m, 2H), 0.81 (d, J = 6.4 Hz, 3H) ppm. [a        D24 =   +5.20* (c = 1.00,
   dichloromethane).
20
   Example 3c: (S)-isoquinolin-6-yl((1R,6S)-2,2,6
   trimethylcyclohexyl)methanol
           A solution     of 6-bromoisoquinoline   (2.08  g,   10   mmol)    in dry
   tetrahydrofuran (20 mL) at -78    0C  was added dropwise to n-butyl lithium (1.6
25 M in hexane, 6.25 mL, 10 mmol) and stirred at -78      0C  for 15 minutes. The
   product of Example 3b (770 mg, 5 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (5 mL) was added
   and stirred at -78 *C for 30 minutes and then slowly warmed to room
   temperature and stirred for an additional 2 hours. The mixture was quenched
   with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and the organics were extracted
30 with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phase was washed with brine, dried
   over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.
   Purification of residue by silica gel column chromatography afforded a yellow
   solid. The solid was recrystallized from petroleum ether and ethyl acetate to
                                           69

   give the title compound as a white solid (778 mg, Yield: 55%). Rf = 0.4 (2:1
   petroleum ether/ethyl acetate);    1H   NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 5 9.20 (s, 1 H),
   8.49 (d, J = 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.93-7.90 (m; 2 H), 7.64-7.60 (m, 2 H), 5.28 (d, J =
   5.6 Hz, 1 H), 2.02 (d, J= 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 1.91-1.88 (m, 1 H), 1.56-1.47 (m, 4 H),
 5 1.37-1.26 (m, 2 H), 1.23 (s, 3 H), 1.12 (s, 3 H), 1.01-0.93 (m, 1 H), 0.56 (d, J=
   6.4 Hz, 3 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z 284 (M + H*).
   Example 3d: (S)-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-6-y)((1R,6S)-2,2,6
   trimethylcyclohexyl)methanol
10         To the product of Example 3c (150 mg, 0.53 mmol) in acetic acid (10
   mL) was added platinum dioxide (68 mg) and stirred under a hydrogen
   atmosphere (174 psi) for 1 hour at room temperature. The mixture was filtered
   and the filtrate adjusted to pH = 10 with saturated aqueous sodium carbonate.
   The organics were extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organic
15 phase was washed with brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and
   concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the residue by column
   chromatography on neutral alumina afforded the title compound (115 mg,
   Yield: 75%). Rf 0.5 (10:1 dichloromethane/methanol);          1H  NMR (400 MHz,
   CDC 3) 6 7.14-7.10 (m, 2 H), 6.94 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 5.05 (s, 1 H), 3.99 (s, 2
20 H), 3.14 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.80 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 2 H), 1.85-1.78 (m, 1 H), 1.67
   1.60 (m, 2 H), 1.51-1.39 (m, 4 H), 1.32-1.24 (m, 2 H), 1.13 (s, 3 H), 1.06 (s, 3
   H), 1.00-0.89 (m, 1 H), 0.61 (d, J = 6.4 Hz, 3 H) ppm.
   Example 3: 6-((S)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
25 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
           To a solution of the product of Example 3d (114 mg, 0.4 mmol) in
   dichloromethane (5 mL) was added triethylamine (162 mg, 1.6 mmol) and
   isocyanatotrimethylsilane (138 mg, 1.2 mmol). The reaction mixture was
   stirred  at room temperature        overnight. The     mixture was diluted with
30 dichloromethane and washed with water, saturated aqueous ammonium
   chloride, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, brine, dried over anhydrous
   sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was
   purified by prep-TLC to afford the title compound as a white solid (93 mg,
   Yield: 71%). Mp = 99.1-100.6 *C; Rf 0.5 (15:1 dichloromethane/methanol);         1H
                                             70

    NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 7.23 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 7.19 (s, 1 H), 7.07 (d, J =
   8.0 Hz, 1 H), 5.08 (d, J = 5.2 Hz, 1 H), 4.55 (s, 2 H), 4.53 (s, 2 H), 3.63 (t, J =
   5.8 Hz, 2 H), 2.89 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 2 H), 1.84-1.81 (m, 1 H), 1.76 (d, J = 6.0 Hz,
    1 H), 1.50-1.40 (m, 4 H), 1.32-1.24 (m, 1 H), 1.14 (s, 3 H), 1.06 (s, 3 H) , 0.98
 5 0.93 (m, 1 H), 0.60 (d, J = 6.4 Hz, 3 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z
   331 (M + H*); [ a ]25   = +7.41* (c = 0.54, dichloromethane).
   Example 4: 6-((1R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexanecarbonyl)-3,4
10 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide
           To a solution of the product of Example 3 (80 mg, 0.24 mmol) in
   dichloromethane (2 mL) at 0 'C was added Dess-Martin periodinane (154 mg,
   0.36 mmol) and the reaction was stirred for 1 hour. The mixture was
   quenched with saturated aqueous sodium carbonate and the organics were
15 extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic phase was washed
   with brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under
   reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer
   chromatography (prep-TLC) to give the title compound as a white solid (42
   mg, Yield: 53%). Mp = 89.1-90.0      0C; Rf 0.4 (20:1 dichloromethane/methanol);
20 1 H NMR   (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 7.80 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 7.77 (s, 1 H), 7.22 (d, J
   = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 4.63 (s, 2 H), 4.54 (s, 2 H), 3.65 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 2 H), 3.01-2.96
   (m, 3 H), 2.09-2.06 (m, 1 H), 1.79 (dd, J, = 13.2 Hz, J2 = 3.2 Hz, 1 H), 1.58
   1.54 (m, 2 H), 1.45-1.41 (m, 1 H), 1.34-1.25 (m, 1 H), 1.04-1.00 (m, 1 H), 0.98
   (s, 3 H), 0.77 (s, 3 H), 0.74 (d, J = 6.4 Hz, 3 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve)
25 m/z 329 (M + H); [ a ID2 6 -6 = -5.330 (c = 0.15, dichloromethane).
   Example 5: 6-((R)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
           To a solution of the product of Example 4 (32 mg, 0.1 mmol) in
30 tetrahydrofuran (2 mL) at 0     0C  was added lithium aluminum hydride (23 mg,
   0.6 mmol) and the reaction was stirred for 1 hour. The mixture was quenched
   with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and the organics were extracted
   with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phase was washed with saturated
                                             71

    aqueous sodium bicarbonate, brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and
    concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by prep-TLC
    to afford the title compound and its epimer (7.7:1) as a white solid (17 mg,
                                                                                     1H
    Yield: 48%). Mp = 77.6-78.5 *C; Rf 0.5 (15:1 dichloromethane/methanol);
  5 NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) (Major isomer) 6 7.24-7.22 (m, 2 H), 7.07 (d, J = 8.0
    Hz, 1 H), 5.23 (s, 1 H), 4.56 (s, 2 H), 4.51 (bs, 2 H), 3.63 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 2 H),
    2.89 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 2 H), 1.90-1.84 (m, 1 H), 1.76-1.67 (m, 2 H), 1.47-1.37 (m,
    3 H), 1.21-1.10 (m, 2 H), 1.06 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 3 H), 1.03 (s, 3 H), 0.41 (s, 3 H)
    ppm; Mass spectrum (ES +ve) m/z 331 (M + H+); [a ]D2 6 6       = +21.00 (c = 0.21,
 10 dichloromethane).
    Example 6: 7-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1       )-carboxamide
15  Example 6a: isoquinolin-7-yl(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enyl)methanol
            A   solution   of  7-bromoisoquinoline      (958   mg,    4.6   mmol)     in
    tetrahydrofuran (15 mL) was added dropwise into n-butyl lithium (1.6 M in
    hexane, 2.87 mL, 4.6 mmol) at -78      0C  and stirred at -78  0C  for 30 minutes.
    Then 2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enecarbaldehyde (350 mg, 2.3 mmol) in
20  tetrahydrofuran (2 mL) was added and the reaction was stirred at -78       0C for 1
    hour and then allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction was
    quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and the organics were
    extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with saturated
    aqueous sodium bicarbonate and brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate
25  and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica
    gel column chromatography to give the title compound (794 mg, Yield: 100%).
    Rf 0.5 (2:1 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate);   1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13 ) 6 9.24
    (s, 1 H), 8.49 (d, J = 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 8.04 (s, 1 H), 7.78 (s, 2 H), 7.64 (d, J = 5.6
    Hz, 1 H), 5.56 (s, 1 H), 2.05-2.00 (m, 2 H), 1.70-1.56 (m, 4 H), 1.35 (s, 3 H),
30  1.24 (s, 3 H), 1.16 (s, 3 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ES +ve) m/z 282 (M + H*).
                                            72

   Example 6b: isoquinolin-7-yl(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enyl)methanone
            To the product of Example 6a in dichloromethane (15 mL) at 0 'C was
   added Dess-Martin periodinane (1.8 g, 4.2 mmol) and the reaction was stirred
   at for 1 hour. The mixture was diluted with petroleum ether and filtered. The
 5 filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue purified by
   silica gel column chromatography to give the title compound (610 mg, Yield:
   77%). Rf 0.4 (5:1 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate); 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6
   9.40 (s, 1 H), 8.64 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 8.53 (s, 1 H), 8.29 (dd, J, = 8.8 Hz, J2
   = 1.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.91 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 2.16 (t, J =
10 6.4 Hz, 2 H), 1.85-1.82 (m, 2 H), 1.63-1.61 (m, 2 H), 1.48 (s, 3 H), 1.08 (s, 6
   H) ppm.
   Example 6c: (1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-7-yI)(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex
   1- enyl)methanone
15           To the product of Example 6b (350 mg, 1.25 mmol) in acetic acid (2
   mL) was added platinum dioxide (35 mg) and the reaction was stirred under
   an atmosphere of hydrogen for 4 hours at room temperature. The mixture was
   filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was
   dissolved in ethyl acetate and adjusted to pH=8 with saturated aqueous
20 sodium bicarbonate. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate and
   the organic layer was washed with brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate
   and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica
   gel column chromatography to give the title compound (206 mg, Yield: 58%).
   Rf 0.5 (10:1 dichloromethane/methanol); 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13 ) 6 7.67 (d,
25 J = 7.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.62 (s, 1 H), 7.16 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 4.08 (s, 2 H), 3.18 (t,
   J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.87 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.07 (t, J = 6.4 Hz, 2 H), 1.78-1.74
   (m, 2 H), 1.53-1.50 (m, 2 H), 1.43 (s, 3 H), 1.02 (s, 6 H) ppm.
   Example 6: 7-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4
30 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
            To a solution of the product of Example 6c (204 mg, 0.72 mmol) in
   dichloromethane (10 mL) was added triethylamine (291 mg, 2.88 mmol) and
   isocyanatotrimethylsilane (249 mg, 2.16 mmol) and the reaction mixture was
   stirred at room temperature overnight after which additional triethylamine (291
                                           73

    mg, 2.88 mmol) and isocyanatotrimethylsilane (249 mg, 2.16 mmol) were
    added and stirring was continued for 5 hours. The mixture was diluted with
    dichloromethane and washed with water, saturated aqueous ammonium
    chloride, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and brine. The organic
  5 phase was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and then concentrated under
    reduced     pressure.   The    residue   was   purified    by  silica   gel  column
    chromatography to afford the title compound as a white solid (160 mg, Yield:
    68%). Mp = 92.5-93.6 'C; Rf 0.4 (15:1 dichloromethane/methanol);            1H NMR
    (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 7.75 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 7.73 (s, 1 H), 7.24 (d, J = 8.0
10  Hz, 1 H), 4.63 (s, 2 H), 4.55 (bs, 2 H), 3.66 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.95 (t, J = 5.6
    Hz, 2 H), 2.08 (t, J = 6.4 Hz, 2 H), 1.79-1.76 (m, 2 H), 1.56-1.54 (m, 2 H), 1.43
    (s, 3 H), 1.02 (s, 6 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z 327 (M + H*).
    Example 7: 7-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1-enyl)methyl)-3,4
15  dihydroisoquinoline-2(1       )-carboxamide
            To a solution of the product of Example 6 (73.4 mg, 0.22 mmol) in
    tetrahydrofuran (2 mL) at 0    0C  was added lithium aluminum hydride (51 mg,
    1.35 mmol) and the reaction was stirred at 0     0C  for 2 hours. The mixture was
    quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and the organics were
20  extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phase was washed with
    saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, brine, dried over anhydrous sodium
    sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified
    by prep-TLC to afford the title compound as a white solid (44 mg, Yield: 59%).
    Mp = 88.2-89.5 0C; Rf 0.3 (15:1 dichloromethane/methanol);            1H  NMR (400
25  MHz, CDC13 ) 6 7.24-7.20 (m, 2 H), 7.10 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1 H), 5.37 (s, 1 H),
    4.56 (s, 2 H), 4.54 (s, 2 H), 3.63 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.88 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 2 H),
    1.99 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 1.82 (s, 1 H), 1.68-1.64 (m, 2 H), 1.56-1.52 (m, 2 H),
    1.39 (s, 3 H), 1.18 (s, 3 H), 1.04 (s, 3 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z
    311 (M - H2 0 + H*).
30
    Example 8: 6-(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
    Example 8a: ethyl 1 -methyl-2-oxocyclopentaneca rboxylate
                                             74

           To a stirred suspension of dry potassium carbonate (16.64 g, 120.4
   mmol)     in dry   acetone    (200 mL)   under   argon    was added      ethyl  2
   oxocyclopentanecarboxylate (9.40 g, 60.2 mmol) followed by methyl iodide
   (7.5 mL, 120.4 mmol). The reaction was heated to reflux for 3 hours and then
 5 another portion of methyl iodide (7.5 mL, 120.4 mmol) was added and the
   reaction was refluxed overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled and then
   filtered through a silica gel pad and the solid was washed with acetone (100
   mL x 3). The organic phase was concentrated under reduced pressure and
   the residue dispersed in acetone (200 mL) and filtered. The filtrate was
10 concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica
   gel column chromatography (eluent: petroleum ether/ethyl acetate = 100/1       ->
   50/1) to afford the title compound as a colorless liquid (8.35 g, Yield: 82%). 1H
   NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 5 4.22-4.10 (m, 2H), 2.57-2.40 (m, 2H), 2.36-2.27
   (m, 1H), 2.11-2.00 (m, 1H), 1.98-1.83 (m, 2H), 1.31 (s, 3H), 1.25 (t, J = 7.0
15 Hz, 3H) ppm.
   Example 8b: ethyl 1,3,3-trimethyl-2-oxocyclopentanecarboxylate
           To a solution of potassium tert-butoxide (16.53 g, 147.3 mmol) in
   anhydrous tetrahydrofuran (200 mL) at -60       0C   under argon was added a
20 solution of the product of Example 8a (8.35 g, 49.1 mmol) in anhydrous
   tetrahydrofuran (20 mL) dropwise during 15 minutes. The reaction mixture
   was allowed to warm gradually to -30      0C over 2 hours, after which time the
   reaction was cooled down to -60    0C and methyl iodide (18.4 mL, 294.6 mmol)
   was added dropwise. The reaction was then allowed to warm gradually to
25 room temperature and stirred overnight. The mixture was poured into cooled
   saturated aqueous ammonium chloride (600 mL) and then the organics were
   extracted with diethyl ether (250 mL x 4). The combined organic phase was
   washed with brine (600 mL), dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and
   concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel
30 column chromatography (eluent: petroleum ether/ethyl acetate = 50/1) to
   afford the title compound as a light yellow liquid (7.22 g, Yield: 74%) 1H NMR
   (400 MHz, CDC13 ) 5 4.20-4.09 (m, 2H), 2.49-2.41 (m, 1H), 1.98-1.88 (m, 1H),
                                          75

    1.86-1.77 (m, 2H), 1.32 (s, 3H), 1.24 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H), 1.15 (s, 3H), 1.09 (s,
   3H) ppm.
    Example 8c: potassium 1,3,3-trimethyl-2-oxocyclopentanecarboxylate
 5         To a stirred solution of the product of Example 8b (6.72 g, 33.9 mmol)
   in methanol (34 mL) was added a cooled aqueous potassium hydroxide
   solution (1.0 M, 68 mL, 68 mmol). The reaction was then stirred at room
   temperature overnight. The material was used directly for the next step.
10  Example 8d: 2,2,5-trimethylcyclopentanone
           A solution of the product of Example 8c in methanol and water (7.4 g,
    -35.7 mmol) was acidified with concentrated hydrochloric acid to pH = 1 and
   then heated to reflux for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled and then
   diluted with water (70 mL) and the organics were extracted with diethyl ether
15 (80 mL x 4). The combined organic phase was washed with brine (160 mL),
   dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced
   pressure to give the title compound as a light yellow liquid contaminated with
   some solvent (4.93 g, Purity: -85%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 2.26-2.09
   (m, 2H), 1.85-1.79 (m, 1H), 1.72-1.64 (m, 1H), 1.54-1.45 (m, 1H), 1.12 (d, J
20 6.8 Hz, 3H), 1.08 (s, 3H), 0.98 (s, 3H) ppm.
   Example 8e: 2,2,5-trimethyl-1 -trimethylsilyloxy)cyclopentanecarbonitrile
           To a solution of the product of Example 8d (4.93 g, -85% purity, -33.2
   mmol) in dichloromethane (120 mL) at room temperature was added zinc
25 iodide (265 mg, 0.83 mmol) followed by trimethylsilanecarbonitrile (4.29 g,
   43.2 mmol). The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The
   reaction was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting material
   was dispersed in light petroleum ether (250 mL). The mixture was then filtered
   through a silica gel pad and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced
30 pressure to give the title compound as colorless a liquid (6.33 g, Yield: 84%,
   Diastereomer ratio: 4:1). 1 H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) (Major isomer) 6 2.30
   2.20 (m, 1H), 1.94-1.82 (m, 1H), 1.72-1.50 (m, 2H), 1.38-1.26 (m, 1H), 1.18
   (d, J = 6.8 Hz, 3H), 1.17 (s, 3H), 0.96 (s, 3H), 0.24 (s, 9H) ppm.
                                           76

   Example 8f: 1-hydroxy-2,2,5-trimethyicyclopentanecarbonitrile
           To a stirred solution of the product of Example 8e (6.33 g, 28.1 mmol)
   in tetrahydrofuran (56 mL) at room temperature was added 10% aqueous
   hydrochloric acid (84 mL). The reaction was heated to 45     0C  for 4 hours. The
 5 reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove the
   tetrahydrofuran and the aqueous residue was extracted with ethyl acetate (80
   mL x 4). The combined organic phase was washed with brine (160 mL), dried
   over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.
   The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (eluent:
10 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate = 100/1 -> 5/1) to afford the title compound as a
   white solid as a mixture of diastereomers (3.82 g, Yield: 89%).     1H  NMR (400
   MHz, CDCl 3) (Major isomer) 6 2.34 (s, 1H), 2.33-2.24 (m, 1H), 2.01-1.92 (m,
   1H), 1.72-1.59 (m, 2H), 1.41-1.31 (m, 1H), 1.24 (d, J = 6.8 Hz, 3H), 1.23 (s,
   3H), 1.04 (s, 3H) ppm;     1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) (Minor isomer) 6 2.61
15 2.51 (m, 1H), 2.29 (s, 1H), 2.01-1.91 (m, 1H), 1.80-1.72 (m, 1H), 1.58-1.51
   (m, 1H), 1.47-1.38 (m, 1H), 1.16-1.14 (m, 9H) ppm.
   Example 8g: 2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enecarbonitrile
          A solution of the product of Example 8f (1.54 g, 10.0 mmol) in thionyl
20 chloride (6 mL) was heated to 84         0C  overnight in a sealed vessel. The
   reaction mixture was cooled and then poured into ice-water (100 mL). The
   organics were extracted with diethyl ether (80 mL x 4). The combined organic
   phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate (160 mL x 2)
   and brine (160 mL), dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated
25 under reduced pressure to give the title compound as a brown oil (1.20 g,
   Yield: 89%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 5 2.45 (t, J = 7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.96 (s,
   3H), 1.80 (t, J = 7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.17 (s, 6H) ppm.
   Example 8h: 2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1-enecarbaldehyde
30        To a stirred solution of the product of Example 8g (600 mg, 4.44 mmol)
   in anhydrous dichloromethane (30 mL) at -78 'C under argon was added
   diisobutyl aluminum hydride (1.0 M in hexane, 8.9 mL, 8.9 mmol). The
   reaction was kept at -78    0C  for 2 hours. The mixture was diluted with diethyl
                                            77

   ether (150 mL) and quenched by addition of wet sodium sulfate. The mixture
   was then stirred for 30 minutes, filtered and the filtrate concentrated under
   reduced      pressure.    The    residue  was     purified   by  silica   gel  column
   chromatography (eluent: petroleum ether/ethyl acetate = 50/1 -> 20/1) to
 5 afford the title compund as a light yellow liquid (420 mg, Yield: 68%). 1 H NMR
   (400 MHz, CDCl3 )      8  9.98 (s, 1H), 2.45 (t, J = 7.4 Hz, 2H), 2. 10 (s, 3H), 1.67
   (t, J = 7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.22 (s, 6H) ppm.
   Example 8i: isoquinolin-6-yl(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1-enyl)methanol
10         A    solution    of   6-bromoisoquinoline       (603   mg,    2.9   mmol)     in
   tetrahydrofuran (10 mL) was added dropwise into n-butyl lithium (1.6 M in
   hexane, 1.8 mL, 2.9 mmol) at -78 0 C and stirred at -78       0C for 1 hour. Then the
   product of 8h (200 mg, 1.45 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (2 mL) was added and
   stirred at -78 *C for 1 hour after which time the reaction was slowly warmed to
15 room temperature. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous
   ammonium chloride and the organics were extracted with ethyl acetate. The
   organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate,
   brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced
   pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to
20 give the title compound (344 mg, Yield: 89%). Rf 0.5 (2:1                    petroleum
   ether/ethyl acetate);    1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 9.22 (s, 1 H), 8.51 (d, J =
   5.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.98 (s, 1 H), 7.90 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.67 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H),
   7.54 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1 H), 5.65 (s, 1 H), 2.30 (t, J = 7.2 Hz, 2 H), 1.69 (t, J = 6.8
   Hz, 2 H), 1.63 (s, 3 H), 1.17 (s, 3 H), 0.93 (s, 3 H) ppm.
25
   Example 8j: isoquinolin-6-yl(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1-enyl)methanone
           To the product of Example 8i in dichloromethane (20 mL) at 0           0C   was
   added Dess-Martin periodinane (818 mg, 1.92 mmol) and the reaction was
   stirred at 0  0C for 2 hours. Petroleum ether was added to the mixture and then
30 it was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the
   residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the title
   compound (240 mg, Yield: 70%). Rf 0.7 (2:1 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate);
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 9.36 (s, 1 H), 8.63 (d, J = 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 8.23 (s, 1
                                              78

   H), 8.03 (dd, J, = 8.4 Hz, J2  = 1.2 Hz, 2 H), 7.80 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 2.50 (t, J
   = 7.2 Hz, 2 H), 1.86 (t, J = 7.2 Hz, 2 H), 1.48 (s, 3 H), 1.28 (s, 6 H) ppm.
   Example 8k: (1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-6-y)(2,5,5
 5 trimethylcyclopent-1-enyl)methanone
            To the product of Example 8j (240 mg, 0.94 mmol) in acetic acid (5 mL)
   was added platinum dioxide (50 mg) and the reaction was stirred under an
   atmosphere of hydrogen at room temperature for 4 hours. The mixture was
   filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue
10 was dissolved in ethyl acetate and adjusted to pH = 8 with saturated aqueous
   sodium bicarbonate. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate and
   the combined organic phase was washed with brine, dried over anhydrous
   sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was
   purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the title compound (108
15 mg, Yield: 43%). Rf 0.5 (10:1 dichloromethane/methanol);        1H NMR (400 MHz,
   CDCl 3 ) 6 7.58 (s, 1 H), 7.57 (d, J = 6.4 Hz, 1 H), 7.07 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 4.06
   (s, 2 H), 3.16 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.85 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.43 (t, J = 6.8 Hz,
   2 H), 1.80 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 2 H), 1.50 (s, 3 H), 1.21 (s, 6 H) ppm.
20 Example 8: 6-(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
            To a solution of the product of Example 8k (108 mg, 0.4 mmol) in
   dichloromethane (10 mL) was added triethylamine (162 mg, 1.6 mmol) and
   isocyanatotrimethylsilane (138 mg, 1.2 mmol) and the reaction mixture was
25 stirred   at room     temperature    overnight. The    mixture was diluted with
   dichloromethane and the organic phase was washed with water, saturated
   aqueous ammonium chloride, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and
   brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced
   pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to
30 give the title compound as a white solid (104 mg, Yield: 83%). Mp = 40.1-41.4
   0C;   Rf 0.3 (15:1 dichloromethane/methanol);      1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6
   7.64 (d, J = 4.4 Hz, 2 H), 7.20 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1 H), 4.64 (s, 2 H), 4.57 (s, 2 H),
   3.64 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.96 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.44 (t, J = 6.8 Hz, 2 H),
                                             79

   1.80 (t, J = 7.2 Hz, 2 H), 1.50 (s, 3 H), 1.21 (s, 6 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI
   +ve) m/z 313 (M + H+).
   Example 9: 6-(hydroxy(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1-enyl)methyl)-3,4
 5 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide
            To a solution of the product of Example 8 (49 mg, 0.16 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (2 mL) at 0 0C was added lithium aluminum hydride (36 mg,
   0.94 mmol) and the reaction was stirred at 0 0C for 2 hours. The mixture was
   quenched with wet sodium sulfate and then the reaction mixture was filtered.
10 The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was
   dissolved in ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with saturated
   aqueous ammonium chloride, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, brine,
   dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced
   pressure. The residue was purified by prep-TLC to afford the title compound
15 as a white solid (27 mg, Yield: 55%). Mp = 68.6-69.6 0C; Rf 0.5 (10:1
   )dichloromethane/methanol); 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13 ) 6 7.24 (s, 1 H), 7.21
   (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 7.07 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 5.42 (d, J = 2.8 Hz, 1 H), 4.56
   (s, 2 H), 4.51 (s, 2 H), 3.63 (t, J = 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 2.89 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.28
   (t, J = 7.2 Hz, 2 H), 1.72 (d, J = 4.0 Hz, 1 H), 1.68-1.64 (m, 5 H), 1.06 (s, 3 H),
20 0.97 (s, 3 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z 315 (M + H*).
   Example 10: 6-(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
25 Example 10a: 1,4,4-trimethylcyclohex-2-enol
            To a stirred solution of 4,4-dimethylcyclohex-2-enone (40.0 g, 322
   mmol) in anhydrous diethyl ether (400 mL) at -78       0C  was added an ethereal
   solution of methyllithium (220 mL of a 1.6 M). The resulting solution was
   allowed to warm to room temperature, stirred for 18 hours. The reaction was
30 quenched by the addition of water (200 mL). The phases were separated and
   the aqueous layer extracted with diethyl ether ether (2 x 200 mL). The
   combined organic phase was washed with water (2 x 200 mL), dried over
   anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to give
   the title compound as clear, light yellow oil (41 g, Yield: 90%). Rf 0.5 (5:1
                                            80

   petroleum ether/ethyl acetate); 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 5 5.46 (d, J = 10.0
   Hz, 1H), 5.43 (d, J= 10.0 Hz, 1H), 1.73-1.70 (m, 2H), 1.59-1.56 (m, 1H), 1.50
   1.45 (m, 1H), 1.27 (s, 3H), 1.01 (s, 3H), 0.95 (s, 3H) ppm; Mass spectrum
   (ESI +ve) m/z 123 (M - H2 0 + H*).
 5
   Example 10b: 3,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-2-enone
           To a stirred slurry of pyridinium chlorochromate (123 g, 570 mmol), in
   dichloromethane (840 mL), at room temperature was added in one portion a
   solution of the product of Example 10a (40.0 g, 285 mmol) in dichloromethane
10 (280 mL). The resulting dark red mixture was allowed to stir for 18 hours after
   which it was filtered and the precipitate washed with diethyl ether (200 mL).
   The filtrate was washed successively with 5% aqueous sodium hydroxide (2 x
   200 mL), 5% aqueous hydrochloric acid (200 mL), saturated aqueous sodium
   bicarbonate (2 x 50 mL), and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate,
15 filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified
   by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a
                                                                                  1H
   colorless oil (14 g, Yield: 35%). Rf 0.4 (5:1 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate);
   NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 6 5.77 (s, 1H), 2.29 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2H), 1.93 (s, 3H),
   1.80 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 3H), 1.09 (s, 6H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z 139
20 (M + H*).
   Example 10c: 2,2,5,5-tetramethylcyclohexanone
           Cuprous iodide (6.9 g, 36.2 mmol) was added to a dry 250-mL round
   bottom flask equipped with a stir bar and sealed under argon with a septum.
25 The flask was evacuated with a vacuum pump and purged with argon. This
   process was repeated three times. Anhydrous tetrahydrofuran (75 mL) was
   injected into the flask and the slurry was cooled to -78 0C at which time methly
   lithium (45 mL, 72 mmol) was added dropwise. The mixture was allowed to
   warm until becoming homogeneous and then it was recooled to -78           0C  and
30 boron trifluoride etherate (8.9 mL, 72 inmol) was added via a syringe. The
   product of Example 10b (5.0 g, 36.2 mmol) was added neat and the reaction
   mixture was stirred for 1.5 hours. The reaction was quenched with a solution
   of 10% aqueous ammonium hydroxide/90% aqueous ammonium chloride
   (250 mL). The organics were extracted with ethyl acetate (250 mL) and the
                                            81

   organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate (50 mL
   x 2), brine (50 mL), dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated to
   give 3.5 g a colorless oil which was purified by silica gel             column
   chromatography to afford the title compound as a colorless solid (1.5 g, Yield:
 5 26%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 2.21 (s, 2H), 1.69-1.65 (m, 2H), 1.61-1.57
   (m, 2H), 1.09 (s, 6H), 0.94 (s, 6H);     13C NMR (101 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 216.36,
   51.32, 44.00, 36.89, 36.62, 34.69, 28.5, 25.15 ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve)
   m/z 155 (M + H*).
10 Example 10d: 2,2,5,5-tetramethyl-1 -(trimethylsilyloxy)
   cyclohexanecarbonitrile
          To a mixture of the product of Example 10c (2.7 g, 17.5 mol) in
   dichloromethane (100 mL) was added zinc iodide (140 mg, 0.44 mmol) and
   trimethylsilanecarbonitrile (2.27 g, 22.8 mmol) and the reaction was stirred at
15 room temperature overnight. The organic phase was washed with water (20
   mL) and brine (20 mL) dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated
   under reduced pressure to give the title compound as a yellow oil (3.8 g,
   Yield: 86%).  1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 1.81-1.65 (m, 3H), 1.36-1.30 (m,
   3H), 1.11 (s, 3H), 1.00 (s, 6H), 0.98 (s, 3H), 0.24 (s, 9H) ppm.
20
   Example 10e: 1-hydroxy-2,2,5,5-tetramethylcyclohexanecarbonitrile
          To a mixture of the product of Example 10d (3.8 g, 15.0 mol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (29 mL) was added 10% hydrochloric acid (75 mL) and the
   reaction was stirred at 44 OC for 5 hours. The reaction was concentrated
25 under reduced pressure and the residue diluted with diethyl ether. The
   organic phase was washed with water (20 mL) and brine (20 mL), dried over
   anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The
   residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the the title
   compound as a colorless oil (2.22 g, Yield: 82%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13)
30 6 2.21 (s, 1H), 1.87 (d, J = 14.4 Hz, 1H), 1.72 (d, J = 14.4 Hz, 1H), 1.66-1.60
   (m, 1H), 1.42-1.34 (m, 3H), 1.17 (s, 3H), 1.06 (s, 3H), 1.05 (s, 3H), 1.04 (s,
   3H) ppm.
                                           82

   Example 10f: 3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1-enecarbonitrile
           To a mixture of the product of Example 10e (2.22 g, 12.3 mmol) in
   pyridine (40 mL) was added thionyl chloride (4.4 mL, 61.3 mmol) and the
   reaction was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours.          The reaction was
 5 acidified with 5 N hydrochloric acid to pH = 1, then it was poured into ice
   water (20 mL). The aqueous mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate (20 ml x
   3) and the organic phase washed with water (20 mL), brine (20 mL), dried
   over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.
   The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the
10 title compound as a colorless oil (600 mg, Yield: 30%).      1H  NMR (400 MHz,
   CDCl 3) 5 6.23 (s, 1H), 1.56 (t, J = 2.8 Hz, 2H), 1.56-1.43 (m, 4H), 1.16 (s, 6H),
   1.03 (s, 6H) ppm.
   Example 10g: 3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1-enecarbaldehyde
15         To the mixture of the product of Example 10f (500 mg, 3.07 mmol) in
   dry dichloromethane (12.5 mL) at -78         0C was added diisobutyl aluminum
   hydride (6.5 mL, 6.14 mmol) and the reaction was warmed to room
   temperature and stirred for approximately 2.5 hours. Wet sodium sulfate was
   added to quench the reaction. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate
20 was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica
   gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a colorless oil.
   (360 mg, Yield: 71%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13 ) 6 9.31 (s, 1H), 6.33 (s, 1H),
   1.55-1.49 (m, 4H), 1.20 (s, 6H), 1.10 (s, 6H) ppm.
25 Example 10h: isoquinolin-6-yl(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1
   enyl)methanol
           A solution of 6-bromoisoquinoline (416 mg, 2 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran
   (8 mL) was added dropwise into n-butyl lithium (1.6 M in hexane, 1.25 mL, 2
   mmol) at -78   0C and the reaction was stirred for 30 minutes. A solution of the
30 product of Example 10g (150 mg, 1 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran           (2 mL) was
   added and the reaction was stirred at -78        0C  for 1 hour and then slowly
   warmed to room temperature. The mixture was quenched with the addition of
   saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and the mixture was extracted with
   ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium
                                            83.

   bicarbonate, brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated
   under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column
   chromatography to afford the title compound (167.3 mg, Yield: 63%). 1H NMR
   (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 9.22 (s, 1H), 8.52 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 2H), 7.96 (d, J = 8.8 Hz,
 5 2H), 7.49 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 5.49 (s, 1H), 5.32 (d, J = 15.2 Hz, 1H), 1.63-1.44
   (m, 4H), 1.21 (s, 3H), 1.01 (s, 3H), 0.97 (s, 3H), 0.91 (s, 3H) ppm.
   Example 10i: isoquinolin-6-yl(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1-enyl)
   methanone
10          To   the product   of Example      10h   (167.3    mg,  0.57   mmol)   in
   dichloromethane (10 mL) at room temperature was added sodium bicarbonate
   (50 mg) and Dess-Martin periodinane (365 mg, 0.85 mmol) and the reaction
   was stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was concentrated
   under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel column
15 chromatography to afford the title compound as a colorless oil (130 mg, Yield:
   78%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 6 9.32 (s, 1H), 8.61 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 1H), 809
   (s, 1H), 8.02 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.91 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1 H), 7.73 (d, J = 6.0 Hz,
   1H), 5.91 (s, 1H), 1.66-1.59 (m, 4H), 1.31 (s, 6H), 1.07 (s, 6H) ppm.
20 Example 10j: (1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-6-y)(3,3,6,6
   tetramethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methanone
            To the product of Example 10i (130 mg, 0.47 mmol) in acetic acid (2
   mL) was added platinum dioxide (20 mg) and the reaction mixture was stirred
   under an atmosphere of hydrogen for 3 hours. The mixture was filtered and
25 the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted
   with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and the aqueous layer was
   extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with brine, dried
   over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.
   The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the
30 title compound (59 mg, Yield: 42%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 6 7.50 (s,
   1H), 7.49 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.06 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 5.77 (s, 1H), 4.11 (s,
   2H), 3.21 (t, J = 5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.90 (t, J = 5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.32 (s, 1H), 1.58 (s,
   4H), 1.24 (s, 6H), 1.05 (s, 6H) ppm.
                                           84

   Example 10: 6-(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
           To a solution of the product of Example 10j (59 mg, 0.2 mmol) in
   dichloromethane (5 mL) was added triethylamine (110 mg, 1.0 mmol) and
 5 isocyanatotrimethylsilane (94 mg, 0.8 mmol) and stirred at room temperature
   overnight. The mixture was diluted with dichloromethane and washed with
   water, saturated aqueous ammonium chloride, saturated aqueous sodium
   bicarbonate and brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated
   under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column
10 chromatography to afford the title compound as a white solid (47 mg, Yield:
                                                                            1H
   69%). Mp = 78.6-79.7 0 C; Rf 0.3 (10:1 dichloromethane/methanol);            NMR
   (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 5 7.56 (s, 1H), 7.53 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 2H), 7.17 (d, J = 7.6 Hz,
   1H), 5.79 (s, 1H), 4.63 (s, 2H), 4.52 (s, 2H), 3.64 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.94 (t, J
   = 6.0 Hz, 2H), 1.59 (s, 4H), 1.24 (s, 6H), 1.06 (s, 6H) ppm; Mass spectrum
15 (ESI +ve) m/z 341 (M + H*).
   Example 11: 6-(7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide
20 Example 11a: (E)-(2,2-dimethylcycloheptylidene)methanol
           To a stirred mixture of powdered sodium methoxide (3.0 g, 56.16
   mmol) in toluene (90 mL) at 0 OC was added cycloheptanone (6.0 g, 53.49
   mmol) and ethyl formate (7.92 g, 106.98 mmol). The mixture was warmed to
   room temperature and stirred overnight. Ice water (70 mL) was added and the
25 organic phase separated. The organic phase was washed by 5% aqueous
   sodium hydroxide (30 mL x 2) and the combined aqueous phase was acidified
   to pH = 3 with 2 N hydrochloric acid and then extracted with ethyl acetate (120
   mL x 3). The combined organic phase was washed with brine, dried over
   anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The
30 residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (eluent: petroleum
   ether/ethyl acetate = 80/1) to afford the title compond as a colorless oil (4.26
   g, Yield: 57%). Rf = 0.6 (20:1 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate);      1H NMR (400
   MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 14.68 (d, J = 9.2 Hz, 1 H), 7.63 (d, J = 9.2 Hz, 1 H), 2.55-2.52
   (m, 2 H), 2.26-2.24 (m, 2 H), 1.76-1.58 (m, 6 H) ppm.
                                           85

   Example 11 b: (E)-2-(isopropoxymethylene)cycloheptanone
           To a suspension of powdered potassium carbonate (6.3 g, 45.48
   mmol) in acetone (100 mL) was added the product of Example 11a (4.26 g,
   30.19 mmol) and 2-iodopropane (3.8         mL, 37.49 mmol). The mixture was
 5 refluxed overnight. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated
   under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate (90 mL)
   and the organic phase was washed with 5% aqueous sodium hydroxide (60
   mL x 2) and brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated
   under reduced pressure to give the the title compound as a light yellow oil (5.6
10 g, Yield: 95%). Rf = 0.5 (20:1 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate); 1H NMR (400
   MHz, CDC13) 5 7.38 (s, 1 H), 4.22-4.16 (m, 1 H), 2.56-2.53 (m, 2 H), 2.41-2.39
   (m, 2 H), 1.77-1.57 (m, 6 H), 1.29 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 6 H) ppm.
   Example 11c: (E)-7-(isopropoxymethylene)-2,2-dimethylcycloheptanone
15         To a mixture of potassium tert-butoxide (10.3 g, 92.18 mmol) in
   anhydrous tetrahydrofuran (140 mL) under argon at 0          0C was added the
   product of Example 11 b (5.6 g, 30.49 mmol) and then methyl iodide (9.56 mL,
   153.62 mmol). The mixture was stirred for 4.5 hours at room temperature. The
   mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure and
20 then the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate (60 mL). The organic phase
   was washed with 5% aqueous sodium hydroxide (60 mL x 2) and brine, dried
   over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.
   The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (eluent:
   petroleum ether/ethyl acetate = 70/1) to afford the title compound as a
25 colorless oil (3.82 g, Yield: 59%). Rf = 0.6 (20:1 petroleum ether/ethyl
   acetate); 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 6 7.15 (s, 1 H), 4.21-4.15 (m, 1 H), 2.91
   2.86 (m, 1 H), 2.75-2.70 (m, 1 H), 1.98-1.90 (m, 4 H), 1.68-1.54 (m, 2 H), 1.18
   (d, J = 6.8 Hz, 6 H), 1.06 (d, J = 6.8 Hz, 3 H).
30 Example 11d: 2,2-dimethylcycloheptanone
           To a solution of the product of 11c (620 mg, 3.44 mmol) in ethanol (6
   mL) was added a solution of 20% aqueous sodium hydroxide (1.45 g sodium
   hydroxide in 6 g of water). The resulting mixture was heated to reflux for 9
   hours. Water (5 mL) was added to the reaction mixture and the reaction was
                                            86

    extracted with light petroleum ether. The combined organic phase was
    washed with brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated
    under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column
    chromatography (eluent: petroleum ether/ethyl acetate = 60/1) to afford the
  5 desired compound as a colorless oil. Rf = 0.7 (20:1 petroleum ether/ethyl
    acetate); 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 5 2.54-2.51 (m, 2 H), 1.67-1.61 (m, 4 H),
    1.50-1.49 (m, 2 H), 1.33-1.24 (m, 2 H), 1.08 (s, 6 H).
    Example 11e: 2,2-dimethyl-1 -(trimethylsilyloxy)cycloheptanecarbonitrile
10
           To a solution of the product of Example 11d (500 mg, 3.57 mmol) in
    dichloromethane (15 ml) at room temperature was added zinc iodide (22.8
    mg, 0.071 mmol) followed by trimethylsilanecarbonitrile (460.6 g, 4.62 mmol).
    The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Petroleum ether
15  was added and the reaction mixture was filtered and the solid was washed
    with additional petroleum ether. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced
    pressure to afford the title compound as a red oil (700 mg, Yield: 82%). Rf =
    0.9 (20:1 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate); 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 6 1.98 (t,
    J = 5.0 Hz, 2 H), 1.65-1.54 (m, 8 H), 1.11 (s, 3 H), 1.01 (s, 3 H), 0.24 (s, 9 H)
20  ppm.
    Example 11f: 1-hydroxy-2,2-dimethylcycloheptanecarbonitrile
           To a solution of the product of Example 11e (700 mg, 2.92 mmol) in
    tetrahydrofuran (8 mL) was added 10% hydrochloric acid (12 mL). The
25  reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was
    then diluted with water (10 ml) and the organics were extracted with ethyl
    acetate (20 mL x 3). The combined organic phase was washed with brine (40
    mL), dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced
    pressure. The residue was puritied by silica gel column chromatography
30  (eluent: petroleum ether/ethyl acetate = 50/1) to afford the title compound as a
    colorless oil (430 mg, Yield: 88%). Rf = 0.3 (20:1 petroleum ether/ethyl
    acetate); 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 5 2.16 (s, 1 H), 2.01-1.98 (m, 2 H), 1.73
    1.50 (m, 8 H), 1.17 (s, 3 H), 1.05 (s, 3 H) ppm.
                                             87,

   Example 11g: 7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1-enecarbonitrile
            To a mixture of the product of Example 11f (420 mg, 2.51 mmol) in
   pyridine (17.5 mL) was added thionyl chloride (0.91 mL, 12.56 mmol). The
   reaction was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture
 5 was acidified to pH = 1 with 6 N hydrochloric acid and then the organics were
   extracted with ethyl acetate (20 mL x 3). The combined organic phase was
   washed with brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated
   under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography
   over silica gel (eluent: petroleum ether/ethyl acetate = 70/1) to afford the title
10 compound as a colorless oil (210 mg, Yield: 56%). Rf = 0.6 (20:1 petroleum
   ether/ethyl acetate);   1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 6 6.60 (t, J = 6.2 Hz, 2 H),
   2.33-2.29 (m, 2 H), 1.78-1.72 (m, 2 H), 1.67-1.62 (m, 4 H), 1.23 (s, 6 H) ppm.
   Example 11h: 7,7-dimethylcyclohept- -enecarbaldehyde
15          To a stirred solution of the product of Example 11g (274 mg, 1.84
                                                              0C  under argon was
   mmol) in anhydrous dichloromethane (15 mL) at -78
   added diisobutyl aluminum hydride (1.0 M in hexane, 3.7 mL, 3.7 mmol)
   dropwise via syringe. The reaction was stirred at -78 OC for 2 hours and then
   diluted with diethyl ether (30 mL) and quenched by the dropwise addition of
20 tetrahydrofuran/water (3 mL, 5/1). The resulting mixture was warmed to room
   temperature and stirred for 30 minutes. The reaction was filtered and the
   filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by
   flash column chromatography (eluent: light petroleum ether/ethyl acetate =
   30/1) to afford the title compound as a colorless liquid (214 mg, Purity: -83%).
25 Rf = 0.6 (20:1 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate);    1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 6
   9.27 (s, 1H), 6.63 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 1H), 2.49-2.44 (m, 2H), 1.77-1.72 (m, 4H),
   1.67-1.64 (m, 2H), 1.25 (s, 6H) ppm.
   Example 11i: (7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1-enyl)(isoquinolin-6-yl)methanol
30          A solution of 6-bromoisoquinoline (416 mg, 2 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran
   (8 mL) was added dropwise into n-butyl lithium (1.6 M in hexane, 1.25 mL, 2
   mmol) at -78     0C and stirred at -78 0C  for 30 minutes. Then the product of
   Example 11h (150 mg, 1 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (2 mL) was added and the
   reaction was stirred at -78    0C for 1 hour and then slowly warmed to room
                                           88

   temperature. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium
   chloride and the organics were extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic
   phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, brine, dried
   over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.
 5 The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the title
   compound (124 mg, Yield: 45%). Rf = 0.3 (2:1 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate);
   'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 5 9.22 (s, 1 H), 8.52 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 7.92 (s,
   1H), 7.90 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.66 (d, J = 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.50 (d, J = 9.2 Hz, 1
   H), 5.74 (t, J = 6.4 Hz, 1 H), 5.54 (s, 1 H), 2.20-2.15 (m, 2 H), 1.81-1.55 (m, 6
10 H), 1.25 (s, 3 H), 1.14 (s, 3 H) ppm.
   Example 1 1j: (7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enyl)(isoquinolin-6-yl)methanone
           The product of Example 11i in dichloromethane (5 mL) at 0 OC was
   added Dess-Martin periodinane (280 mg, 0.66 mmol) and the reaction was
15 stirred at 0 OC for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was added to petroleum ether
   and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the
   residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the title
   compound (104 mg, Yield: 85%). Rf = 0.4 (5:1 petroleum ether/ethyl acetate);
   1H   NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 9.33 (s, 1 H), 8.62 (d, J = 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 8.25 (s, 1
20 H), 8.08-8.02 (m, 2 H), 7.78 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 5.99 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H),
   2.37-2.33 (m, 2 H), 1.90-1.72 (m, 6 H), 1.28 (s, 6 H) ppm.
   Example 11k: (7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1-enyl)(1,2,3,4
   tetrahydroisoquinolin-6-yl)methanone
25         To the product of Example 11j (104 mg, 0.37 mmol) in acetic acid (2
   mL) at room temperature was added platinum dioxide (20 mg) and the
   reaction was stirred under an atmosphere of hydrogen for 3 hours. The
   mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure. The
   residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and adjusted to pH = 8 with saturated
30 aqueous sodium carbonate. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl
   acetate. The organic phase was washed with brine, dried over anhydrous
   sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was
   purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the title compound (79
   mg, Yield: 75%). Rf 0.5 (10:1 dichloromethane/methanol);      1H NMR (400 MHz,
                                           89

    CDC13) 6 7.58 (s, 1 H), 7.61 (s, 1H), 7.60 (d, J = 6.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.06 (d, J = 8.0
    Hz, 1 H), 5.83 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 4.06 (s, 2 H), 3.16 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.86
    (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.30 (dd, J, = 12.0 Hz, J2 = 6.4 Hz, 2 H), 1.85-1.80 (m, 2
    H), 1.73-1.69 (m, 4 H), 1.21 (s, 6 H) ppm.
 5
    Example 11: 6-(7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide
            To a solution of Example 11k (77 mg, 0.27 mmol) in dichloromethane
    (5    mL)    was    added     triethylamine    (110    mg,     1.09   mmol)     and
10 isocyanatotrimethylsilane (94 mg, 0.82 mmol) and the reaction was stirred at
    room temperature overnight. The mixture was diluted with dichloromethane
   and the organic phase was washed with water, saturated aqueous ammonium
   chloride, saturated aqueous sodium           bicarbonate and brine, dried over
   anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The
15 residue was purified by prep-TLC to give the title compound as a white solid
   (67 mg, Yield: 75%). Rf 0.6 (10:1) dichloromethane/methanol);         1H  NMR (400
   MHz, CDC13) 6 7.68 (d, J = 4.4 Hz, 2 H), 7.19 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1 H), 5.85 (t, J =
   6.0 Hz, 1 H), 4.63 (s, 2 H), 4.56 (s, 2 H), 3.64 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.96 (t, J =
   5.6 Hz, 2 H), 2.31 (dd, J, = 11.6 Hz, J2 = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 1.85-1.81 (m, 2 H),
20  1.72-1.70 (m, 4 H), 1.22 (s, 6 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z 327 (M +
   H*).
   Example 12: 6-((7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1-enyl)(hydroxy)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide
25          To a solution of the product of Example 11 (59 mg, 0.18 mmol) in
   tetrahydrofuran (2 mL) at 0     0C  was added lithium aluminum hydride (41 mg,
   1.08 mmol) and the reaction was stirred at 0        0C for 1.5 hours. The mixture
   was quenched with wet sodium sulfate and then filtered. The filtrate was
   concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in ethyl
30 acetate and the organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous
   ammonium chloride, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, brine, dried over
   anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The
   residue was purified by prep-TLC to give the title compound as a white solid
   (19 mg, Yield: 32%). Rf 0.5 (10:1) dichloromethane/methanol;          1H NMR (400
                                             90

   MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 7.19 (d, J = 5.2 Hz, 2 H), 7.08 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1 H), 5.87 (t, J =
   6.4 Hz, 1 H), 5.32 (s, 1 H), 4.56 (s, 2 H), 4.53 (s, 2 H), 3.63 (t, J = 5.6 Hz, 2
   H), 2.89 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 2.22 (dd, J, = 11.6 Hz, J2 = 6.4 Hz, 2 H), 1.77
    1.72 (m, 2 H), 1.65 (d, J = 4.0 Hz, 1 H), 1.61-1.58 (m, 4 H), 1.18 (s, 3 H), 1.00
 5 (s, 3 H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z 329 (M + H*).
   Example 13: 6-((R)-1 -hydroxy-1 -((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)ethy)
   3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide
10 Example 13a: isoquinolin-6-yl((1R,6S)-2,2,6
   trimethylcyclohexyl)metha none
   To a solution of the product of Example 3c (200 mg, 0.71 mmol) in
   dichloromethane (8 mL) at 0     0C was added Dess-Martin periodinane (450 mg,
   1.06 mmol) and the reaction was stirred for 1 hour. The mixture was
15 quenched with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and the organics were
   extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with brine, dried
   over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure.
   The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to give the title
   compound (189 mg, yield: 95%) 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 5 9.33 (s, 1H),
20 8.63 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 1H), 8.40 (s, 1H),8.16-8.14 (m, 1H), 8.05 (d, J = 8.8 Hz,
   1H), 7.81 (d, J = 5.6 Hz, 1H), 3.17 (d, J = 10.8 Hz, 1H), 2.11-2.04 (m, 1H),
   1.86-1.82 (m, 1H), 1.68-1.40 (m, 4H), 1.36-1.11 (m, 1H), 1.02 (s, 3H), 0.81 (d,
   J = 6.8 Hz, 3H), 0.79 (s, 3H).
25 Example 13b: (1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-6-y)((1R,6S)-2,2,6
   trimethylcyclohexyl)methanone
           To a solution of the product of Example 13a (178 mg, 0.63 mmol) in
   acetic acid (2 mL) was added platinum dioxide (25 mg) and the reaction was
   stirred at room temperature under an atmosphere of hydrogen for 4 hours.
30 The mixture was diluted with dichloromethane (40 mL) and basified with 1 N
   NaOH (35 mL) and the organic phase was separated. The aqueous layer was
   extracted with dichloromethane (30 mL). The combined organic phase was
   washed with brine (50 mL),         dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and
   concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel
                                           91

   column chromatography (eluent: dichloromethane/methanol = 50/1 -> 10/1) to
                                                                            1H NMR
   afford the title compound as a dark brown oil (130 mg, Yield: 72%).
   (400 MHz, CDCi3 ) 6 7.76 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.73 (s, 1 H), 7.13 (d, J = 8.4 Hz,
   1H),4.18 (s, 2H), 3.28 (t, J = 6.2 Hz, 2H), 3.01 (t, J = 6.2 Hz, 2H), 2.11-2.02
 5 (m, 1H), 1.81-1.77 (m, 1H), 1.61-1.54 (m, 2H), 1.44-1.41 (m, 1H), 1.34-1.24
   (m, 3H), 1.10-0.98 (m, 4H), 0.77 (s, 3H), 0.74 (d, J = 6.4 Hz, 3H) ppm; Mass
   spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z 286 (M + H*).
   Example      13c: (R)-1-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-6-y)-1-((1R,6S)-2,2,6
10 trimethylcyclohexyl)ethanol
           To a stirred solution of the product of Example 13b (95 mg, 0.33 mmol)
   in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran (6 mL) under argon at -78    0C  was added methyl
   lithium (1.6 M in diethyl ether) (1.04 mL, 1.66 mmol). The reaction was stirred
   at -78 *C for 1 hour, after which the reaction was allowed to warm gradually to
15 room temperature and stirring was continued overnight. The reaction was
   quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride (25 mL) and the
   organics were extracted with ethyl acetate (25 mL x 3). The combined organic
   phase was washed with brine (40 ml), dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate
   and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the residue by silica
20 gel column chromatography (eluent: dichloromethane/methanol = 50/1 -> 5/1)
   afforded 30 mg of the impure title compound as a yellow oil which was used
   directly in the next step. Mass spectrum (ESI +ve) m/z 302 (M + H).
   Example 13: 6-((R)-1-hydroxy-1-((1R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)ethyl)
25 3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
           To a solution of compound of the crude product of Example 13c (28
   mg, 0.1 mmol) in dichloromethane (2 mL) was added triethylamine (55 mg,
   0.5 mmol) and isocyanatotrimethylsilane (47 mg, 0.4 mmol). The reaction was
   stirred   at room temperature       overnight. The  mixture was diluted with
30 dichloromethane and washed with water, saturated aqueous ammonium
   chloride, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and brine.           The organic
   phase was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to afford the title compound as a yellow oil (15 mg). Mass
   spectrum (LC ESI +ve) m/z 345 (M + H*).
                                            92

    Example    14: 6-(hyd roxy(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
    dihydroisoquinoline-2(1 H)-carboxamide
           To the solution of of the product of Example 10 (6.9 mg, 0.02 mmol) in
   dry tetrahydrofuran (3 mL) at 0 OC was added lithium aluminum hydride (7.8
 5  mg, 0.2 mmol) and the reaction mixture was slowly warmed to room
   temperature and stirred for 1h. The reaction mixture was quenched with wet
   sodium sulfate, stirred for 15 minutes and filtered. The filtrate was
   concentrated under reduced pressure to give the title compound. Rf 0.2 (10:1
   dichloromethane/methanol);      1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13) 5 7.18 (d, J = 8.4 Hz,
10 2H), 7.07 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 5.49 (s, 1H), 5.26 (s, 1H), 4.56 (s, 2H), 4.50 (s,
   2H), 3.62 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.89 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 2H), 1.60 (s, 4H), 1.16 (s,
   3H), 1.00 (s, 3H), 0.98 (s, 3H), 0.85 (s, 3H) ppm; Mass spectrum (ESI +ve)
   m/z 343 (M + H*).
15
                                    Biology Examples
           In carrying out the procedures of the present invention it is of course to
   be understood that reference to particular buffers, media, reagents, cells,
20 culture conditions and the like are not intended to be limiting, but are to be
   read so as to include all related materials that one of ordinary skill in the art
   would recognize as being of interest or value in the particular context in which
   that discussion is presented. For example, it is often possible to substitute one
   buffer system or culture medium for another and still achieve similar, if not
25 identical, results. Those of skill in the art will have sufficient knowledge of
   such systems       and   methodologies so     as to be able,      without undue
   experimentation, to make such substitutions as will optimally serve their
   purposes in using the methods and procedures disclosed herein.
30         The invention is described in more detail in the following non-limiting
   examples. It is to be understood that these particular methods and examples in
   no way limit the invention to the embodiments described herein and that other
   embodiments and uses will no doubt suggest themselves to those skilled in the
   art.
                                           93

   Reagents
           Monoclonal anti-rhodopsin 1D4 antibody can be purchased from
   University of British Columbia.
 5
   Cell lines and culture conditions
           Stable cell lines expressing opsin protein were generated using the
10 Flp-In T-Rex system. The stable cells were grown in DMEM high glucose
   media supplemented with 10% (vlv) fetal bovine serum, antibiotic/antimycotic
   solution, 5 /ml blasticidin and hygromycin at 37 C in presence of 5% C02.
   For all the experiments the cells were allowed to reach confluence and were
   induced to produce opsin or a mutant opsin with 1 pg/mL tetracycline after
15 change of media and then compounds were added. The plates were
   incubated for 48 hours after which the cells were harvested.
   SDS-PAGE and western blotting
20         Proteins were separated on SDS-PAGE gels and western blotted as
   described in (Noorwez et al., J. Biol. Chem. 279,16278-16284 (2004)).
           The in vivo efficacy of the compounds of the invention in treating
   macular degeneration can be demonstrated by various tests well known in the
25 art. For example, human patients are selected based on a diagnosis of
   macular degeneration (such as where there is a gross diagnosis of this
   condition or where they have been shown to exhibit build-up of toxic visual
   cycle products, such as A2E, lipofuscin, or drusen in their eyes. A compound
   of the invention, such as that of Formula I, is administered to a test group
30 while a placebo, such as PBS or DMSO, is administered to a control group
   that may be as large or may be somewhat smaller than the test group. The
   test compound is administered either on a one time basis or on a sequential
                                           94

   basis (for example, weekly or daily) or according to some other predetermined
   schedule.
          Administration of the test compound is normally by oral or parenteral
 5 means and in an amount effective to retard the development and/or
   reoccurrence of macular degeneration. An effective dose amount is generally
   in the range of about 1 to 5,000 mg or in the range of 10 to 2,000 mg/kg.
   Administration may include multiple doses per day.
10        Efficacy of the test compound in retarding progression of macular
   degeneration is generally by measuring increase in visual acuity (for example,
   using Early Treatment Diabetic RP Study (ETDRS) charts (Lighthouse, Long
   Island, N.Y.).   Other means of following and evaluating efficacy is by
   measuring/monitoring the autofluorescence or absorption spectra of such
15 indicators      as      N-retinylidene-phosphatidylethanolamine,        dihydro-N
   retinylidene-N-retinyl-phosphatidylethanolamine,          N-retinylidene-N-retinyl
   phosphatidylethanolamine,          dihydro-N-retinylidene-N-retinyl-ethanolamine,
   and/or N-retinylidene-phosphatidylethanolamine in the eye of the patient.
   Autofluorescence     is monitored using different types of instrument, for
20 example, a confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope.
          Accumulation of lipofuscin in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is a
   common pathological feature observed in various degenerative diseases of
   the retina. A toxic vitamin A-based fluorophore (A2E) present within lipofuscin
25 granules has been implicated in death of RPE and photoreceptor cells. Such
   experiments    can employ an animal         model that manifests accelerated
   lipofuscin accumulation to evaluate the efficacy of a therapeutic approach
   based upon reduction of serum vitamin A (retinol). Administration of test
   compound to mice harboring a null mutation in the Stargardt's disease gene
30 (ABCA4) produces reductions in serum retinol/retinol binding protein and
   arrested accumulation of A2E and lipofuscin autofluorescence in the RPE.
           Test animals are available for use in testing efficacy of a test
   compound in reducing build-up of toxic pigments, such as lipofuscin. For
                                            95

   example, mice have been produced that exhibit increased production of such
   toxic product. Such mice have been described in the literature (see, for
   example, Widder et al., U.S. Pub. 2006/0167088) and their value and utility
   are well known to those in the art.
 5
      Showing the efficacy of compounds of the invention in protecting against
   light toxicity is conveniently performed by methods well known in the art (see,
   for example, Sieving et al, PNAS, Vol. 98, pp 1835-40 (2001)).
10                                 Biology Example 1
                       Rhodopsin Purification and Regeneration
           P23H cells were grown to confluency in 10 centermeter plates in
   DMEM containing high glucose, blasticidin (5pg/ml) and hygromycin (100
15 pg/ml). The cells were induced with tetracycline (lpg/ml) and treated with
   either DMSO (vehicle) or different concentrations of the test compound
   (0.3pM, 1pM, 3pM, 10pM, 30pM and 80pM). After 24 hours, the medium was
   removed and fresh medium with the the compounds was added to the plates.
   p-lonone (20 pM) was used as a positive control for the experiments. The
20 cells were harvested 48 hours after the first treatment. All procedures from
   hereon were carried out under a dim red light (>660 nm). The cells were
   washed twice with PBS, and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature in 1
   mL of PBS containing 9-cis-retinal (20 pM). After regeneration, the cells were
   washed with PBS and incubated for 1 hour at 4     0C in PBS containing 1% n
25 dodecyl-p-D maltoside and protease inhibitors (Roche) for lysis. The cell
   lysate was centrifuged in a tabletop Beckman ultracentrifuge at 36,000 x g for
   10 minutes. The supernatant was removed and protein was estimated in all of
   the samples (DC protein assay, Biorad). Equal amounts of protein (5 pg) was
   loaded on previously prepared 1D4-coupled cyanogen bromide-activated
30 Sepharose 4B beads for 1 hour at 4*C. Briefly, the Sepharose 4B beads were
   conjugated with 1D4 antibody that recognizes the C-terminus of opsin. The
   beads were extensively washed three times with PBS and twice with sodium
   phosphate buffer (10 mM, pH 6.0), both containing 0.1%          n-dodecyl-p-D
   maltoside. The protein was eluted in the sodium phosphate buffer containing
                                           96

    a synthetic 9 amino acid peptide corresponding to the C-terminus of opsin
    protein. The eluted rhodopsin was analyzed on a spectrophotometer scanning
   the UV-visible range from 250 to 650 nm at increments of 1 nm.
 5         Table 1 contains the results of P-ionone (reference compound 1) and
   test compounds in which the 480-500 nm absorbance is expressed as a fold
    increase over the DMSO control. Figure 1 is the spectral results using the
    reference compound 1 (p-ionone) according to Biology Example 1.
10                                       Table 1
           Compound                   Fold Increase            Concentration
                                      Over Control                  (4M)
             p-ionone                      2.4                       20
                 2                         2.5                       10
                 3                          1.5                      10
                 5                          1.9                      10
15 Other Embodiments
           From the foregoing description, it will be apparent that variations and
   modifications may be made to the invention described herein to adopt it to
   various usages and conditions. Such embodiments are also within the scope
20 of the following claims.
           The recitation of a listing of elements in any definition of a variable
   herein includes definitions of that variable as any single element or
   combination (or subcombination) of listed elements. The recitation of an
25 embodiment herein includes that embodiment as any single embodiment or in
   combination with any other embodiments or portions thereof.
           All patents and publications mentioned in this specification are herein
   incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each independent patent
                                            97

and publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated
by reference.
                                     98

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
       1.     A compound having the structure of Formula 1,
 5
                               R,    R)
                               A
                                               x
                                    Formula I
10     wherein A is:
              1)
                      R1 R 2
                      T
                                "R3
                     Ra      Rb       or
              2)
                     RI     R2
                     T           R
                                 Ra
                     Ra      Rb
15
       R' and R2 are independently:
              1) hydrogen,
              2) -CH 3 , or
              3) -CH2 CH3;
20
       R3 is:
              1) hydrogen,
              2) -CH3 ,
              3) -CH2CH 3 , or
                                         99

                   4) deuteron;
           R4 is:
                   1) hydrogen,
 5                 2) -CH 3, or
                   3) deuteron;
           Ra and Rb are each independently:
                   1) hydrogen, or
10                 2) -CH 3;
           T is:
                   1) CH 2 ,
                   2) CH 2CH 2, or
15                 3) absent;
          Ri and Rj are each independently:
                   1) hydrogen,
                   2) hydroxyl, or
20                 3) lower alkyl;
           Ri and Rj when taken together are oxo (=O);
           X-Y is:
25                 1) -N(CONH 2 )-CH 2-, or
                   2) -CH 2-N(CONH 2 )-;
           including pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates and hydrates
   thereof.
30
          2. The compound of claim 1, wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen
   or lower alkyl.
           3. The compound of claim 1, wherein           R1 and    R2   are each
                                            100

   independently methyl or ethyl.
          4. The compound       of claim    1, wherein Ra and    Rb   are each
   independently hydrogen or methyl.
 5
          5.  The compound of claim 2, wherein R1 and R2              are each
   independently methyl or ethyl.
          6.  The    compound of claim     2,  wherein Ra and    Rb   are each
10 independently hydrogen or methyl.
          7.  The    compound   of claim   3,  wherein Ra and    Rb   are each
   independently hydrogen or methyl.
15        8. The compound of claim 1, wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen
   or lower alkyl, R1 and R2 are each independently methyl or ethyl, and Ra and
   Rb are hydrogen or methyl.
          9. The compound of claim 1, wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen
20 or methyl.
          10. The compound of claim 1, wherein each of R1 and R2 is methyl.
          11. The compound of claim 1, wherein Ra and Rb are each hydrogen
25
          12. The compound of claim 1, wherein R3 is hydrogen or methyl.
          13. The compound of claim 9, wherein each of R1 and R2 is methyl.
30        14. The compound of claim 9, wherein Ra and Rb are each hydrogen.
          15. The compound of claim 9, wherein R3 is hydrogen or methyl.
          16. The compound of claim 10, wherein Ra and Rb are each hydrogen
                                        101

           17. The compound of claim 10, wherein R3 is hydrogen or methyl.
           18. The compound of claim 11, wherein R3 is hydrogen or methyl.
 5         19. The compound of claim 1, wherein Ri is hydroxy          and Rj is
   hydrogen or methyl, each of R1 and R2 is methyl, Ra and Rb are each
   hydrogen and R3 is hydrogen or methyl.
           20. The compound of claim 1, wherein R1 , R2 and R3 are each methyl.
10
           21. The compound of claim 1, wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen
   or methyl.
           22. The compound of claim 1, wherein each of Ra and Rb is hydrogen.
15
           23. The compound of claim 1, wherein X-Y is -N(CONH 2 )-CH 2-.
          24. The compound of claim 20, wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is
   hydrogen or methyl.
20
           25. The compound of claim 20, wherein each of Ra and Rb is
   hydrogen.
          26. The compound of claim 20, wherein X-Y is -N(CONH 2 )-CH 2-.
25
          27. The compound of claim 21, wherein each of Ra and Rb is
   hydrogen.
          28. The compound of claim 21, wherein X-Y is -N(CONH 2 )-CH 2-.
30
          29. The compound of claim 22, wherein X-Y is -N(CONH 2 )-CH 2-.
          30. The compound of claim 1, wherein R1 , R2 and R3 are each methyl,
   Ri is hydroxy and R; is hydrogen or methyl and both Ra and Rb is hydrogen
                                        102

   and X-Y is -N(CONH 2 )-CH 2-.
         31. A composition, comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a
   compound of Formula 1
 5
                                 R-      Rj
                               A                 Y
                                       Formula I
10
         wherein A is:
                 1)
                         RI R2
                        T
                                    R3
                        Ra    Rb        ,or
                2)
                        RI R 2
                        T
                                   R4
                                   R,3
15                      Ra    Rb
         R1 and R2 are independently:
                 1) hydrogen,
                2) -CH 3 , or
20              3) -CH 2CH 3;
         R3 is:
                 1) hydrogen,
                2) -CH 3,
                                            103

                  3) -CH 2 CH 3 , or
                  4) deuteron;
          R4 is:
 5                1) hydrogen,
                  2) -CH 3, or
                  3) deuteron;
          Ra and Rb are each independently:
10                1) hydrogen, or
                  2) -CH 3;
          T is:
                  1) CH 2 ,
15                2) CH 2CH 2, or
                  3) absent;
          Ri and Rj are each independently:
                  1) hydrogen,
20                2) hydroxyl, or
                  3) lower alkyl;
          Ri and Rj when taken together are oxo (=O);
25        X-Y is:
                  1) -N(CONH 2 )-CH 2 -, or
                  2) -CH 2-N(CONH 2)-;
          including pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates and hydrates
30 thereof.
          32. The composition of claim 31, wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is
   hydrogen or lower alkyl.
                                            104

          33. The composition of claim 31, wherein R1 and R2          are each
   independently methyl or ethyl.
          34. The composition of claim 31, wherein Ra and Rb are each
 5 independently hydrogen or methyl.
          35. The composition of claim 32, wherein R1 and R2          are each
   independently methyl or ethyl.
10        36. The composition of claim 32, wherein Ra and Rb are each
   independently hydrogen or methyl.
          37. The composition of claim 33, wherein Ra and Rb are each
   independently hydrogen or methyl.
15
          38. The composition of claim 31, wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is
   hydrogen or lower alkyl, R1 and R2 are each independently methyl or ethyl,
   and Ra and Rb are hydrogen or methyl.
20        39. The composition of claim 31, wherein Ri is hydroxy and Rj is
   hydrogen or methyl.
         40. The composition of claim 31, wherein each of R1 and R2 is methyl.
25       41.  The composition of claim 31, wherein Ra and Rb are each
   hydrogen
         42. The composition of claim 31, wherein R3 is hydrogen or methyl.
30       43. The composition of claim 39, wherein each of R1 and R2 is methyl.
         44. The composition of claim 39, wherein        Ra and Rb are each
   hydrogen.
                                       105

           45. The composition of claim 39, wherein R3 is hydrogen or methyl.
           46. The composition of claim 40, wherein Ra and Rb are each
   hydrogen
 5
           47. The composition of claim 40, wherein R3 is hydrogen or methyl.
           48. The composition of claim 41, wherein R3 is hydrogen or methyl.
10         49. The composition of claim 31, wherein Ri is hydroxy      and Rj is
   hydrogen or methyl, each of R1 and R2 is methyl, Ra and Rb are each
   hydrogen and R3 is hydrogen or methyl.
           50. The composition of claim 31, wherein R1 , R2 and R3 are each
15 methyl.
           51. The composition of claim 31, wherein R i is hydroxy and R; is
   hydrogen or methyl.
20         52. The composition of claim 31, wherein each of Ra and Rb is
   hydrogen.
           53. The composition of claim 31, wherein X-Y is -N(CONH 2)-CH 2-.
25         54. The composition of claim 50, wherein R i is hydroxy and Rj is
   hydrogen or methyl.
           55. The composition of claim 50, wherein each of Ra and Rb is
   hydrogen.
30
           56. The composition of claim 50, wherein X-Y is -N(CONH 2)-CH 2-.
           57. The composition of claim 51, wherein each of Ra and Rb is
   hydrogen.
                                         106

          58. The composition of claim 51, wherein X-Y is -N(CONH 2)-CH 2 -.
          59. The composition of claim 52, wherein X-Y is -N(CONH 2 )-CH 2 -.
 5
          60. The composition of claim 3, wherein R     1, R2 and R3 are each
   methyl, Ri is hydroxy and Rj is hydrogen or methyl and both Ra and Rb is
   hydrogen and X-Y is -N(CONH 2)-CH 2-.
10        61. A method of inhibiting the formation or accumulation of a visual
   cycle product, comprising contacting an opsin protein with a compound of
   Formula I
                                R     Rj
                               A                   Y
                                        1          1
15                                      K
                                     Formula I
          wherein A is:
20               1)
                         R1 R 2
                         T
                                  R3
                        Ra   Rb        or
                 2)
                        R1 R 2
                        T
                                  R43
                                R3
                        Ra   Rb
                                          107

   R1 and R2 are independently:
           1) hydrogen,
           2) -CH 3, or
           3) -CH 2CH 3 ;
 5
   R3 is:
           1) hydrogen,
           2) -CH 3,
           3) -CH 2CH 3 , or
10         4) deuteron;
   R 4 is:
           1) hydrogen,
           2) -CH 3, or
15         3) deuteron;
   Ra and Rb are each independently:
           1) hydrogen, or
           2) -CH 3;
20
   T is:
           1) CH 2 ,
           2) CH 2 CH 2 , or
           3) absent;
25
   Ri and R; are each independently:
           1) hydrogen,
           2) hydroxyl, or
           3) lower alkyl;
30
   Ri and Rj when taken together are oxo (=0);
   X-Y is:
           1) -N(CONH 2)-CH 2-, or
                                   108

                  2) -CH 2-N(CONH 2)-;
           including pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates and hydrates
   thereof.
 5
          62. The method of claim 61, wherein said visual cycle product is a toxic
   visual cycle product.
          63. The method of claim 62, wherein said toxic visual cycle product is
10 lipofuscin or N-retinylidene-N-retinylethanolamine (A2E).
          64. The method of claim 61,          wherein said compound       reduces
   mislocalization of said opsin protein.
15        65. The method of claim 64, wherein said compound binds to said
   opsin protein by hydrogen bonding.
          66. The method of claim 61, wherein said opsin protein is present in a
   cell.
20
          67. The method of claim 66, wherein said cell is a cone cell or rod cell.
          68. The method of claim 66, wherein said cell is present in a
   mammalian eye.
25
          69. A method of treating or preventing an ophthalmic condition in a
   subject at risk thereof or afflicted therewith, comprising administering to the
   subject an effective amount of a compound of Formula 1
30
                                 R      R
                                 A                   Y
                                                     x
                                           109

                               Formula I
   wherein A is:
 5        1)
                    R1 R 2
                    T
                            R3
                  Ra     Rb     or
          2)
                   R1 R 2
                   T
                  Ra    Rb
10 R1 and R 2 are independently:
          1) hydrogen,
          2) -CH 3, or
          3) -CH 2CH 3;
15 R3 is:
          1) hydrogen,
          2) -CH 3 ,
          3) -CH2 CH3 , or
          4) deuteron;
20
   R4 is:
           1) hydrogen,
          2) -CH 3, or
           3) deuteron;
25
   Ra and Rb are each independently:
                                   110

                   1) hydrogen, or
                   2) -CH 3;
           T is:
 5                 1) CH 2 ,
                   2) CH 2 CH2 , or
                   3) absent;
           Ri and Rj are each independently:
10                 1) hydrogen,
                   2) hydroxyl, or
                   3) lower alkyl;
           Ri and Rj when taken together are oxo (=O);
15
           X-Y is:
                   1) -N(CONH 2)-CH 2-, or
                   2) -CH 2-N(CONH 2)-;
20         including pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates and hydrates
   thereof.
           70. The method of claim 69, wherein said ophthalmic condition is an
   ocular protein mislocalization disorder.
25
           71. The method of claim 69, wherein said ophthalmic condition is
   selected from the group consisting of wet or dry age related macular
   degeneration (ARMD),         retinitis pigmentosa   (RP), a retinal or macular
   dystrophy, Stargardt's disease, Sorsby's dystrophy, autosomal dominant
30 drusen,    Best's dystrophy, peripherin       mutation  associate  with macular
   dystrophy, dominant form of Stargart's disease, North Carolina macular
   dystrophy, light toxicity, normal vision loss related aging and normal loss of
   night vision related to aging .
                                             111

            72. The method of claim 71, wherein said ophthalmic condition is
   retinitis pigmentosa (RP).
            73. The method of claim 72, wherein said RP is caused by aberrant
 5 opsin-folding.
            74. A method of inhibiting the formation or accumulation of a visual
   cycle product, comprising contacting an opsin protein with a compound
   selected from the group consisting of compounds 2, 3 and 5 including all
10 pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates and hydrates thereof.
            75. A method of treating or preventing an ophthalmic condition in a
   subject at risk thereof or afflicted therewith, comprising administering to the
   subject an effective amount of a compound selected from the group consisting
15 of compounds 2, 3 and 5 including all pharmaceutically acceptable salts,
   solvates and hydrates thereof.
            76. A composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a
   compound selected from the group consisting of compounds 2, 3 and 5
20 including all pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvates and hydrates thereof.
            77. A method of inhibiting the formation or accumulation of a visual
   cycle product, comprising contacting an opsin protein with a compound
   selected from the group consisting of
25          6-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 1);
            6-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 2);
            6-((S)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
30 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 3);
            6-((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexanecarbonyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 4);
                                            112

          6-((R)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 5);
          7-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 6);
 5        7-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 7);
          6-(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 8);
          6-(hydroxy(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
10 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 9);
          6-(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 10);
          6-(7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 11);
15        6-((7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enyl)(hydroxy)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 12);
          6-((R)-1 -hydroxy-1 -((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)ethyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 13);
          6-(hydroxy(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
20 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 14)
          including all pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates, or solvates
   thereof.
25        78. A method of treating or preventing an ophthalmic condition in a
   subject at risk thereof or afflicted therewith, comprising administering to the
   subject an effective amount of a compound selected from the group consisting
   of:
30        6-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 1);
          6-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 2);
                                           113

          6-((S)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 3);
          6-((1R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexanecarbonyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 4);
 5        6-((R)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 5);
          7-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 6);
          7-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
10 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 7);
          6-(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 8);
          6-(hydroxy(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 9);
15        6-(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 10);
          6-(7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 11);
          6-((7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1 -enyl)(hydroxy)methyl)-3,4
20 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 12);
          6-((R)-1 -hydroxy-1 -((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)ethyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 13);
          6-(hyd roxy(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
   dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 14)
25
          including all pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates, or solvates
   thereof.
          79. A composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a
30 compound selected from the group consisting of
          6-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
   2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 1);
                                           114

         6-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 2);
         6-((S)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 3);
         6-((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexanecarbonyi)-3,4
 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 4);
         6-((R)-hydroxy((1 R,6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)methyl)-3,4
 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 5);
         7-(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
 2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 6);
         7-(hydroxy(2,6,6-trimethylcyclohex-1 -enyl)methyl)-3,4
 dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 7);
       6-(2,5,5-trimethylcyclopent-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
2(IH)-carboxamide (Compound 8);
       6-(hydroxy(2,5,5-trimethylcyclo pent-1 -enyl)methy)-3,4
dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 9);
       6-(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
2(IH)-carboxamide (Compound 10);
       6-(7,7-dimethylcyclohept-1-enecarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
2(IH)-carboxamide (Compound 11);
       6-((7,7-dimethylcyclohept-l-enyl)(hydroxy)methyl)-3,4
dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 12);
       6-((R)- 1-hydroxy-1 -((1 R, 6S)-2,2,6-trimethylcyclohexyl)ethyl)-3,4
dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide (Compound 13):
6-(hydroxy(3,3,6,6-tetramethylcyclohex-I -enyl)methyl)-3,4
dihydroisoquinoline-2(lH)-carboxamide (Compound 14)
       including all pharmaceutically acceptable salts, hydrates, or solvates
thereof.
                           BIKAM PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
                 Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
